PMID: 30244635
Title: Bronchoscope-Guided Percutaneous Endoscopic Gastrostomy Tube Placement by Interventional Pulmonologists: A Feasibility and Safety Study.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Percutaneous endoscopic gastrostomy (PEG) tube placement is a procedure frequently done in the intensive care unit. The use of a traditional endoscope can be difficult in cases of esophageal stenosis and theoretically confers an increased risk of infection due to its complex architecture. We describe a technique using the bronchoscope, which allows navigation through stenotic esophageal lesions and also minimizes the risk of endoscopy-associated infections.
METHODS: Prospective series of patients who had PEG tube placement guided by a bronchoscope. Procedural outcomes including successful placement, duration of the entire procedure, time needed for passage of the bronchoscope from the oropharynx to the major curvature, PEG tube removal rate, and mortality were collected. Procedural adverse events, including infections and long-term PEG-related complications, were recorded.
RESULTS: A total of 84 patients underwent bronchoscope-guided PEG tube placement. Percutaneous endoscopic gastrostomy tube insertion was completed successfully in 82 (97.6%) patients. Percutaneous endoscopic gastrostomy tube placement was performed immediately following percutaneous tracheostomy in 82.1%. Thirty-day mortality and 1-year mortality were 11.9% and 31%, respectively. Overall, minor complications occurred in 2.4% of patients, while there were no major complications. No serious infectious complications were identified and no endoscope-associated hospital acquired infections were documented.
CONCLUSIONS: The use of the bronchoscope can be safely and effectively used for PEG tube placement. The use of bronchoscope rather than a gastroscope has several advantages, which include the ease of navigating through complex aerodigestive disorders such as strictures and fistulas as well as decreased health-care utilization. In addition, it may have a theoretical advantage of minimizing infections related to complex endoscopes.

Citation: Folch E, et al. Bronchoscope-Guided Percutaneous Endoscopic Gastrostomy Tube Placement by Interventional Pulmonologists: A Feasibility and Safety Study. Bronchoscope-Guided Percutaneous Endoscopic Gastrostomy Tube Placement by Interventional Pulmonologists: A Feasibility and Safety Study. 2020; 35:851-857. doi: 10.1177/0885066618800275

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/30244635/
