PMID: 30259058
Title: Paclitaxel-coated stents to prevent hyperplastic proliferation of ureteral tissue: from in vitro to in vivo.

Abstract: Ureteric stents have become an indispensable tool in the armamentarium of every urologist. However, they carry their own morbidity resulting mostly from infectious or abacterial fouling and biofilm formation, and/or urothelial hyperplastic reaction. All of these may interact and lead to clinical complications. Many different stent designs and coatings have been proposed. In this study, we focused on the effect of paclitaxel-coated stents on hyperplastic proliferation of ureteral tissue, using as example anastomotic strictures after ureteroureterostomy in a rat model. Human urothelial cells (SV-HUC-1) were used to determine paclitaxel dosages in vitro. Polyurethane stents were coated with a paclitaxel containing biodegradable polymer and studied in a ureteroureterostomy rat model. 48 male 9-week-old Sprague-Dawley rats underwent either sham surgery (n = 16) or ureteroureterostomy with sutured anastomosis, and consecutive stenting with either a paclitaxel-coated or an uncoated stent (16 per group), respectively. The animals received daily intraperitoneal injections of 5-bromo-2-deoxyuridine (20 mg/ml, 100 mg/kg body weight) during the first eight postoperative days, and were sacrificed on day 28. Healing of the ureteral anastomosis and proliferation of urothelial cells was examined histologically and immunohistochemically. In vitro, a concentration of 10 ng/mm2 paclitaxel can be considered as non-toxic, while still exerting an anti-proliferative effect on urothelial cells. Histologically, typical wound healing processes were seen at the site of the ureteral anastomosis in vivo. Proliferation of urothelial cells was significantly lower in animals with paclitaxel-coated stents compared to those with uncoated stents (LI 41.27 vs. 51.58, p &lt; 0.001). Our results indicate that stenting of ureteral anastomoses with paclitaxel-coated stents can reduce hyperplastic proliferation of ureteral tissue. Paclitaxel-coated stents thus might be able to prevent not only scar-induced postoperative stenosis after reconstructive surgery, but also hyperplastic urothelial reaction in non-anastomotic stent patients as part of their inflammatory response to the foreign material.

Citation: Kram W, et al. Paclitaxel-coated stents to prevent hyperplastic proliferation of ureteral tissue: from in vitro to in vivo. Paclitaxel-coated stents to prevent hyperplastic proliferation of ureteral tissue: from in vitro to in vivo. 2020; 48:47-56. doi: 10.1007/s00240-018-1081-7

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/30259058/
