PMID: 30535919
Title: Qualitative assessments of myocardial ischemia by cardiac MRI and coronary stenosis by invasive coronary angiography in relation to quantitative perfusion by positron emission tomography in patients with known or suspected stable coronary artery disease.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: To relate findings of qualitative evaluation of first-pass perfusion-CMR and anatomical evaluation on coronary angiography (CA) to the reference standard of quantitative perfusion, cardiac PET, in patients with suspected or known stable coronary artery disease (CAD).
METHODS AND RESULTS: Forty-one patients referred for CA due to suspected stable CAD, prospectively performed adenosine stress/rest first-pass perfusion-CMR as well as 13N-NH<sub>3</sub> PET on the same day, 4 ± 3 weeks before CA. Angiographers were blinded to PET and CMR results. Regional myocardial flow reserve (MFR) &lt; 2.0 on PET was considered pathological. Vessel territories with stress-induced ischemia by CMR or vessels with stenosis needing revascularization had a significantly lower MFR compared to those with no regional stress-induced ischemia or vessels not needing revascularization (P &lt; 0.001). In 4 of 123 vessel territories with stress-induced ischemia by CMR, PET showed a normal MFR. In addition, 12 of 123 vessels that underwent intervention showed normal MFR assessed by PET.
CONCLUSION: The limited performance of qualitative assessment of presence of stable CAD with CMR and CA, when related to quantitative 13N-NH<sub>3</sub> cardiac PET, shows the need for fully quantitative assessment of myocardial perfusion and the use of invasive flow reserve measurements for CA, to confirm the need of elective revascularization.

Citation: Akil S, et al. Qualitative assessments of myocardial ischemia by cardiac MRI and coronary stenosis by invasive coronary angiography in relation to quantitative perfusion by positron emission tomography in patients with known or suspected stable coronary artery disease. Qualitative assessments of myocardial ischemia by cardiac MRI and coronary stenosis by invasive coronary angiography in relation to quantitative perfusion by positron emission tomography in patients with known or suspected stable coronary artery disease. 2020; 27:2351-2359. doi: 10.1007/s12350-018-01555-1

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/30535919/
