PMID: 30543132
Title: Perihilar Hepatectomy for Hepatolithiasis with Compressed Hilar Bile Duct Induced by Perihilar Hyperplasia of Liver.

Abstract: Background: Stone recurrence is a major problem limiting the effects of surgical treatment for hepatolithiasis. It was showed that hyperplasia of perihilar liver may compress the hepatic portal and cause deficient bile flow because of compressed hilar bile duct, thereby leading to the formation of bile stasis and precipitating stone recurrence. This retrospective study aimed to evaluate the efficiency of perihilar hepatectomy for hepatolithiasis with compressed hilar bile duct induced by perihilar hyperplasia of liver. Methods: 135 patients with compressed hilar bile duct induced by hypertrophied perihilar liver were included in this study from January 2011 to July 2016. Among these patients, 77 underwent conventional operation procedure (control group) and 58 underwent conventional operation procedure added by perihilar hepatectomy (perihilar hepatectomy group). Clinical data containing preoperative data, intraoperative data, operation complications, and short-term and long-term outcomes were collected. Results: The demographic and disease-related characteristics of the two groups were comparable. The two groups were not remarkably different in operation-related characteristics. The incidence of bile leakage in the perihilar hepatectomy group was substantially higher than that in the control group. Other postoperative complications were not remarkably different between the two groups. In the long-term postoperative follow-up period, the incidence of the recurrence of stones and cholangitis in the control group was considerably higher than that in the perihilar hepatectomy group. Conclusions: Based on conventional operation procedure, additional perihilar hepatectomy is a reliable intervention with definite clinical effects for hepatolithiasis with compressed hilar bile duct induced by hypertrophied perihilar liver.

Citation: Chen G, et al. Perihilar Hepatectomy for Hepatolithiasis with Compressed Hilar Bile Duct Induced by Perihilar Hyperplasia of Liver. Perihilar Hepatectomy for Hepatolithiasis with Compressed Hilar Bile Duct Induced by Perihilar Hyperplasia of Liver. 2020; 33:505-513. doi: 10.1080/08941939.2018.1538398

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/30543132/
