PMID: 30909273
Title: Proximal Gastric Resection with Posterior Esophago-Gastrostomy and Partial Neo-Fundoplication in the Treatment of Advanced Upper Gastric Carcinoma.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Proximal gastric resection (PGR) is rarely used in western countries because of frequent postoperative reflux and uncommon diagnosis of early gastric cancer (GC).
OBJECTIVES: We hypothesized that the PGR with an anti-reflux procedure may be an attractive option even in advanced proximal GC after downstaging with the neo-adjuvant chemotherapy.
METHOD: A novel technique of end-to-side esophago-gastrostomy with the posterior wall of the gastric stump and partial neo-fundoplication to prevent reflux symptoms has been introduced. An observational retrospective study was undertaken to evaluate early and late outcomes of the innovative technique in patients with advanced proximal GC after neoadjuvant chemotherapy.
RESULTS: Twenty consecutive patients with the diagnosis of loco-regionally advanced GC, localized in the subcardiac region or proximal upper third of the stomach, were selected for the study. Eleven (55%) patients completed preoperative neo-adjuvant chemotherapy. The mean postoperative hospitalization time was 13.3 (± 8.3) days. There was one postoperative in-hospital death due to acute circulatory insufficiency. The mean comprehensive complication index was 11.94 (±24.82). Two patients were diagnosed with a complete pathological response (ypT0N0). Median survival was 41.8 (95% CI 27.9-41.8) months. The 5-year survival rate was 42%. At a median follow-up of 26 months, reflux symptoms were present in 7 (35%) patients who had to use antireflux medication. Anastomotic stenosis was observed in 1 patient during the follow-up. Mean scores of reflux symptoms on medication were not significantly different to those in patients without medication. The Overall Satisfaction Score for patients on medication was 7.57 ± 1.92, whereas it was 8.83 ± 1.34 (p = 0.2; Student t test) for those with no medication.
CONCLUSIONS: Proximal gastrectomy is feasible and may be safely used in patients with advanced GC after neo-adjuvant chemotherapy with acceptable survival. Posterior esophago-gastrostomy with partial neo-fundoplication reduces the postoperative reflux, while patients with persistent reflux symptoms can be effectively treated with an antireflux therapy.

Citation: Polkowski WP, et al. Proximal Gastric Resection with Posterior Esophago-Gastrostomy and Partial Neo-Fundoplication in the Treatment of Advanced Upper Gastric Carcinoma. Proximal Gastric Resection with Posterior Esophago-Gastrostomy and Partial Neo-Fundoplication in the Treatment of Advanced Upper Gastric Carcinoma. 2020; 37:119-128. doi: 10.1159/000497452

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/30909273/
