PMID: 31000376
Title: Prevalence of cervical canal stenosis in farmers: Epidemiological study based on radiographic parameter of spinal cord injury patients.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Farming is one of the effective community activities for preventing the need for new long-term care insurance services. This study was conducted to compare spinal canal diameters between patients injured during orchard work (i.e., cultivating apples) and other situations that lead to cervical spinal cord injury without major fracture or dislocation and to investigate the frequency of cervical spinal canal stenosis among farmers in a Japanese community.
METHODS: Subjects were 23 patients with cervical spinal cord injury without major fracture and dislocation. Charts and radiographs of these patients were retrospectively reviewed to evaluate the characteristics of the spinal cord injury. The spinal canal diameter at the injury level in the mid-sagittal plane of magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and mechanism of injury were compared between patients injured by orchard work and other situations. Moreover, 358 Japanese general residents were evaluated for the prevalence of cervical canal stenosis using MRI and comparisons were made between farmers group and non-farmers group.
RESULTS: Spinal canal diameters at the injury level were 5.8 ± 1.4 mm in patients injured during orchard work and 5.6 ± 1.0 mm in those injured in other situations; there were no differences between the two groups. Head contusion as mechanism of injury was more frequent in the orchard work group than in other situations group. Among farmers, the rate of spinal canal stenosis increased with age, and it was 62.3% in men and 66.2% in women.
CONCLUSIONS: The frequency of cervical spinal canal stenosis was high with age regardless of farming work. In addition, head contusion might be a characteristic mechanism that causes spinal cord injury during orchard work. Therefore, screening of cervical degenerative conditions among farmers and education for prevention of cervical spinal cord injury during farming work are necessary.

Citation: Wada K, et al. Prevalence of cervical canal stenosis in farmers: Epidemiological study based on radiographic parameter of spinal cord injury patients. Prevalence of cervical canal stenosis in farmers: Epidemiological study based on radiographic parameter of spinal cord injury patients. 2020; 25:206-212. doi: 10.1016/j.jos.2019.03.021

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/31000376/
