PMID: 31022311
Title: A randomized controlled trial of adjuvant mitomycin-c in endoscopic surgery for laryngotracheal stenosis.

Abstract: OBJECTIVES/HYPOTHESIS: Topical mitomycin-C (MMC) application is a commonly accepted adjuvant therapy in the surgical treatment for laryngotracheal stenosis (LTS). However, the efficacy of MMC has not been examined in a prospective, randomized clinical trial in humans. We aimed to examine the efficacy of MMC in the treatment of LTS patients as compared to a placebo-controlled group.
STUDY DESIGN: Prospective, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled clinical trial.
METHODS: Fifteen patients with LTS were enrolled in a 24-month trial and randomized into one of two groups: 1) endoscopic surgical treatment with topical application of MMC or 2) endoscopic surgical treatment with topical application of saline. Postoperatively, patients were evaluated at standardized intervals with a symptom questionnaire and spirometry. Subsequent surgery was performed as needed based on relapse of stenosis on exam and patient-reported symptom severity.
RESULTS: The average interval between surgical treatments was 17.9 months in the placebo group and 17.4 months in the MMC group (P = .95). There was no difference in magnitude of peak inspiratory flow (PIF) improvement between groups. The average magnitude of PIF change was 1.3 L/sec and 1.1 L/sec for the placebo and MMC groups, respectively (P = .64). Similarly, there was no difference in magnitude of symptom improvement or duration of symptom improvement between the two groups.
CONCLUSIONS: This prospective, randomized. double-blind. placebo-controlled trial suggests that the use of MMC as a topical adjuvant therapy has no additional benefit in the endoscopic surgical management of LTS. Further study is needed.
LEVEL OF EVIDENCE: 1b Laryngoscope, 130:706-711, 2020.

Citation: Yung KC, et al. A randomized controlled trial of adjuvant mitomycin-c in endoscopic surgery for laryngotracheal stenosis. A randomized controlled trial of adjuvant mitomycin-c in endoscopic surgery for laryngotracheal stenosis. 2020; 130:706-711. doi: 10.1002/lary.28025

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/31022311/
