PMID: 31099183
Title: Hemi-double stapling technique performed with a transorally inserted anvil for esophagojejunostomy in the surgical treatment of gastric cancer.

Abstract: INTRODUCTION: A transorally inserted anvil has been developed to facilitate the creation of a stapled anastomosis without the need for a purse string to secure the anvil into place during laparoscopic total gastrectomy (LTG). We describe a hemi-double stapling technique and application of a transorally inserted anvil for esophagojejunostomy during LTG, and we report the results of a retrospective study in which we examined the feasibility and safety of this method. We also describe the key technical details of the method.
METHODS: Our anastomotic method has four chief features: (a) the esophagus is cut at a slant, and its left cut end is cut and punched for the hemi-double stapling technique; (b) the anvil and circular stapler are connected, placing the distal jejunum in cranial traction; (c) a single layer of sutures is used to correct dog-earing and overlapping, and these points are completely closed with Lembert sutures; and (d) the jejunal limb is fixed to the duodenal stump to prevent kinking of the jejunal limb and to decrease tension on the anastomosis.
RESULTS: This method has been used in 53 patients thus far. LTG with Roux-en-Y reconstruction was successful in all patients, and there was no need for conversion to open surgery. The mean operative time was 313 minutes, and the mean blood loss was 106 mL. The mean postoperative hospital stay was 18 days. There was no anastomotic leakage or stenosis.
CONCLUSION: Hemi-double stapling technique with a transorally inserted anvil for LTG can be performed safely and easily and safely. It can also product good outcomes.

Citation: Ishibashi Y, et al. Hemi-double stapling technique performed with a transorally inserted anvil for esophagojejunostomy in the surgical treatment of gastric cancer. Hemi-double stapling technique performed with a transorally inserted anvil for esophagojejunostomy in the surgical treatment of gastric cancer. 2020; 13:168-174. doi: 10.1111/ases.12716

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/31099183/
