PMID: 31104197
Title: Self-Expandable Metallic Stent Is More Cost Efficient Than Plastic Stent in Treating Anastomotic Biliary Stricture.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Anastomotic bile duct stricture (ABS) is one of the most common complications after liver transplantation. Current practice of endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography (ERCP) with multiple plastic stent (MPS) insertion often requires multiple sessions before achieving stricture resolution. We aimed to compare the efficacy of fully covered self-expandable metallic stent (FCSEMS) with MPS method while simultaneously analyzing the relative healthcare cost between the two methods in the management of ABS.
METHODS: Liver transplant patients with ABS who received ERCP with stent placement were identified by query of our endoscopic database. Comparative analyses between the group of patients treated with ERCP with MPS and the group treated with FCSEMS were performed. The costs to achieve stricture resolution, and the rates of stricture resolution, recurrence and complications were also compared.
RESULTS: A total of 158 patients underwent ERCP with stent insertion for the management of ABS. Of those, 49 patient received FCSEMS for their ABS while 109 patients were treated with MPS only. Our cost analysis showed early utilization of FCSEMS can deliver up to 25% savings in the total procedure cost while providing comparable rates of stricture resolution. The rates of technical success, stricture recurrence and adverse outcomes, and stricture free durations were also comparable between the two groups.
CONCLUSION: While providing efficacy and safety rates comparable to ERCP-MPS, the incorporation of FCSEMS at early stage of ABS management could provide a substantial savings by reducing the number of ERCP session to achieve stricture resolution. Optimization of the timing and duration of FCSEMS indwelling time needs further validation.

Citation: Jang S, et al. Self-Expandable Metallic Stent Is More Cost Efficient Than Plastic Stent in Treating Anastomotic Biliary Stricture. Self-Expandable Metallic Stent Is More Cost Efficient Than Plastic Stent in Treating Anastomotic Biliary Stricture. 2020; 65:600-608. doi: 10.1007/s10620-019-05665-9

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/31104197/
