PMID: 31109888
Title: Wide-Angle Coronary Bifurcation Stenotic Lesions Treated With One Drug-Eluting Stent and Sequential Balloon Technique: A Better Strategy?

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Clinically significant bifurcation lesions account for up to 20% of percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) procedures, and present technical challenges due to the potential for occlusion of the side branch vessel. Percutaneous coronary intervention using final kissing ballooning (FKB) plays a major role in treating bifurcation lesions, but sequential dilatation (SD) is a less complicated PCI technique with a shallower learning curve. Previous studies have shown no benefit of FKB over SD, but wide-angle (>70°) bifurcation lesions may respond differently to narrow-angle bifurcation lesions.
METHODS: Retrospective analysis was carried out to compare outcomes of FKB and SD stenting specifically for wide-angle bifurcation lesions: 7,582 PCIs performed at a single medical centre between 1 January 2009 and 31 May 2016 were screened. This yielded 112 SD and 102 FKB cases for comparative analysis, which was conducted with respect to major adverse cardiac event (MACE)-free survival and target lesion revascularisation (TLR)-free survival rates.
RESULTS: The comparative analysis was achieved using the log-rank test and presented as Kaplan-Meier curves. All baseline characteristics were balanced among the groups. The mean procedure and fluoroscopy times were significantly longer for patients with FKB than SD. Patients with SD had slightly better MACE and TLR rates than those with FKB in both the drug-eluting stent (DES) and bare metal stent (BMS) groups. In addition, patients with DES had slightly lower MACE and TLR rates than those with BMS in both the FKD and SD groups. Major adverse cardiac event-free survival and TLR-free survival rates were also slightly higher in patients with DES than those with BMS in both the FKD and SD groups. However, these differences were not statistically significant.
CONCLUSIONS: These results suggest that the most applicable procedure for PCI of wide-angulated bifurcation stenosis would be a combination of DES and SD.

Citation: Chen YC, et al. Wide-Angle Coronary Bifurcation Stenotic Lesions Treated With One Drug-Eluting Stent and Sequential Balloon Technique: A Better Strategy?. Wide-Angle Coronary Bifurcation Stenotic Lesions Treated With One Drug-Eluting Stent and Sequential Balloon Technique: A Better Strategy?. 2020; 29:437-444. doi: 10.1016/j.hlc.2019.02.189

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/31109888/
