PMID: 31112334
Title: The prefabricated supraclavicular artery flap in high-risk tracheal stenosis patients.

Abstract: OBJECTIVES/HYPOTHESIS: Primary tracheal resection in appropriately selected patients with tracheal stenosis achieves >90% success rate. Risk factors for complications have been identified, making some patients high risk for this procedure. Herein is a review and discussion of a novel treatment method for tracheal stenosis utilizing a prefabricated composite auricular cartilage graft embedded in a supraclavicular artery island flap (pSCAIF) for tracheal reconstruction in high-risk patients.
STUDY DESIGN: Retrospective case series.
METHODS: After institutional review board approval, cases were analyzed after data collection. Between 2014 and 2016, eight patients underwent airway reconstruction using an auricular cartilage graft prefabricated within a supraclavicular artery island flap reconstruction; all of these were included in the study. Each case was reviewed, and relevant details of patient and disease characteristics, operative course, postoperative course, decannulation, and status at last follow-up were isolated and reported.
RESULTS: Seven of eight patients were female. The most common cause of stenosis was iatrogenically induced multilevel stenosis (7/8 patients). All patients had undergone prior airway procedures, were high risk based on comorbid conditions, and underwent grafting and reconstruction with a composite supraclavicular island flap. All patients continue to follow up in a multidisciplinary clinic, and at last follow-up, eight of eight patients were successfully decannulated.
CONCLUSIONS: The pSCAIF is a novel method for tracheal reconstruction. The analysis of the prefabricated locoregional approach cohort supports its utility for tracheal reconstruction in patients with complicated multilevel stenosis and adverse comorbidities and characteristics.
LEVEL OF EVIDENCE: 4 Laryngoscope, 130:641-648, 2020.

Citation: Zender CA, et al. The prefabricated supraclavicular artery flap in high-risk tracheal stenosis patients. The prefabricated supraclavicular artery flap in high-risk tracheal stenosis patients. 2020; 130:641-648. doi: 10.1002/lary.28068

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/31112334/
