PMID: 31112003
Title: Prognostic impact and periprocedural complications of chronic steroid therapy in patients following transcatheter aortic valve replacement: Propensity-matched analysis from the Japanese OCEAN registry.

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: This study aimed to assess the effect of chronic steroid use on periprocedural complications and clinical outcomes after transcatheter aortic valve replacement (TAVR).
BACKGROUND: Chronic steroid use increases the risk of periprocedural complications and mortality during surgery.
METHODS: We investigated 1,313 consecutive patients with aortic stenosis who underwent transfemoral (TF)-TAVR using data from a Japanese multicenter registry. The baseline characteristics, periprocedural complications including vascular complications (VCs), access route related VCs, and clinical outcomes were compared between patients in the steroid group and nonsteroid group.
RESULTS: Major VCs and access route VCs occurred more in the steroid group than in the nonsteroid group (13.4 vs. 5.8%, p = .019; 20.9% vs. 9.8%, p = .004). Especially in the surgical cut-down group, the rate of access route VCs was differed between the two groups (28.0% vs. 7.5%, p = .003). The 30-day mortality rates were similar between the two groups (0% vs. 1.4%, p = .39). In the propensity score-matched model, the higher incidence of major VCs in the steroid group was maintained, although early mortality was similar in the two groups.
CONCLUSIONS: Although chronic steroid therapy is not associated with increased early mortality, chronic steroid use may affect periprocedural VCs and access route VCs mainly due to surgical cut-down in patients following TF-TAVR.

Citation: Koyama Y, et al. Prognostic impact and periprocedural complications of chronic steroid therapy in patients following transcatheter aortic valve replacement: Propensity-matched analysis from the Japanese OCEAN registry. Prognostic impact and periprocedural complications of chronic steroid therapy in patients following transcatheter aortic valve replacement: Propensity-matched analysis from the Japanese OCEAN registry. 2020; 95:793-802. doi: 10.1002/ccd.28332

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/31112003/
