PMID: 31178080
Title: Utility of 3-Week Follow-Up of Upper Gastrointestinal Study in Asymptomatic Patients Following Laparoscopic Sleeve Gastrectomy.

Abstract: RATIONALE AND OBJECTIVES: One day following laparoscopic sleeve gastrectomy (LSG), routine practice has historically dictated that an upper gastrointestinal (UGI) study be performed to assess for staple line leak, clinically significant stenosis, or other complications requiring surgical revision. Recent literature has cast doubt on the utility of performing an UGI immediately following surgery due to its poor sensitivity in detecting leaks and hence referrals for this post-operative study have decreased. However, routine practice at our institution is to perform an UGI study at three weeks following LSG to assess for late complications despite a similar lack of evidence supporting the yield of this exam. The purpose of our study is to assess the utility and cost effectiveness of UGI exams in asymptomatic patients three weeks following LSG.
METHODS AND MATERIALS: A retrospective chart review of patients who underwent LSG for obesity performed at our institution between January 2014 and October 2018 and subsequently had an UGI within two-four weeks following the surgery was conducted.
RESULTS: A total of seventy three asymptomatic patients underwent an UGI study, of which no clinically significant stricture, leak or other complications were identified. Of the fifteen patients who were symptomatic between two-four weeks after surgery, twelve (80%) were found to have complications ranging from staple line leak or gastric narrowing.
CONCLUSIONS: The utility of UGI following LSG in the absence of symptoms is doubtful. Additionally, the added cost and radiation does not add value to the patient's care. We recommend UGI study utilization when there is a clinical suspicion for a complication.

Citation: Knight J and Krishnaraj A. Utility of 3-Week Follow-Up of Upper Gastrointestinal Study in Asymptomatic Patients Following Laparoscopic Sleeve Gastrectomy. Utility of 3-Week Follow-Up of Upper Gastrointestinal Study in Asymptomatic Patients Following Laparoscopic Sleeve Gastrectomy. 2020; 49:260-265. doi: 10.1067/j.cpradiol.2019.05.006

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/31178080/
