PMID: 31173139
Title: Occipital to Angular Artery Bypass for Post-irradiation Ischemia: 3-Dimensional Operative Video.

Abstract: The authors present a 3D surgical video of a direct occipital to angular artery bypass for cerebral revascularization in the setting of Post-irradiation middle cerebral artery stenosis and symptomatic hypoperfusion. The case refers to a 50-yr-old woman with a history of an unresectable residual skull base meningioma, previously approached through a left frontotemporal craniotomy, and treated with radiation 5 yr prior to presentation. She now presented with right-sided limb shaking transient ischemic attacks and aphasia, along with evidence of left middle cerebral artery territory ischemia. Her symptoms were progressive, despite extensive external carotid collateral blood supply through the prior craniotomy. The video analyzes the surgical steps of the procedure, emphasizing multiple surgical pearls. After positioning, an incision is designed to expose the full course of the occipital artery. After dissection of the donor vessel, a craniotomy is performed to expose the distal sylvian fissure. The donor and recipient vessels are prepared, and the anastomosis is performed with interrupted sutures given the sub-millimeter diameter of the recipient vessel (suture used: 10-0 Ethilon BV75-3 Taper, Ethicon, Johnson & Johnson). Every step of the closure is modified to avoid any constriction of the donor vessel. The patient tolerated the procedure well, and multiple modalities, both intra- and post operatively confirmed patency of, and robust flow within the bypass. No identifying patient information is included. However, the patient's consent was obtained for this publication.

Citation: Zenonos GA and Morcos JJ. Occipital to Angular Artery Bypass for Post-irradiation Ischemia: 3-Dimensional Operative Video. Occipital to Angular Artery Bypass for Post-irradiation Ischemia: 3-Dimensional Operative Video. 2020; 18:E78. doi: 10.1093/ons/opz125

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/31173139/
