PMID: 31205260
Title: The Outcomes of Portal Vein Reconstruction With Vein Graft Interposition in Pediatric Liver Transplantation for Small Children With Biliary Atresia.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Several technical modifications in portal vein (PV) reconstruction have shown excellent outcomes in pediatric liver transplantation (LT); however, which procedure is the best for PV reconstruction of the hypoplastic PV in pediatric LT remains unclear.
METHODS: One hundred sixteen pediatric patients aged 1 or younger with biliary atresia (BA) undergoing living donor LT (LDLT) at our center were enrolled in the present study to investigate the outcomes of the different types of PV reconstruction. We compared the results between patients with and without vein graft (VG) interposition (VG group, n = 33; non-VG group, n = 83) to analyze the risk factors for PV complications (PVCs). The median follow-up period was 4.7 years.
RESULTS: PVCs occurred in 10 cases (7.2%), including 5 cases in the non-VG group and 5 in the VG group. Stenosis and thrombosis occurred in 10 and 3 cases, respectively, and 3 cases suffered from both. Three patients were surgically treated for PVCs, and 2 underwent stent insertion to treat short-term recurrence after the initial treatment. The incidence of PVCs in the 2 groups did not differ to a statistically significant extent. Although retrograde PV flow was 1 of the significant risk factors in a univariate analysis, a multivariate analysis revealed that early transplant era was the only independent risk factor for PVCs.
CONCLUSIONS: VG interposition for PV reconstruction in LDLT appears to be a feasible alternative option with acceptable outcomes for patients with BA. Achieving sufficient PV flow is essential to preventing PVCs after LDLT.

Citation: Sakamoto S, et al. The Outcomes of Portal Vein Reconstruction With Vein Graft Interposition in Pediatric Liver Transplantation for Small Children With Biliary Atresia. The Outcomes of Portal Vein Reconstruction With Vein Graft Interposition in Pediatric Liver Transplantation for Small Children With Biliary Atresia. 2020; 104:90-96. doi: 10.1097/TP.0000000000002793

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/31205260/
