PMID: 31248758
Title: Acute experimental venous thrombosis impairs venous relaxation but not contraction.

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: Venous thrombosis (VT) damages the vein wall, both physically by prolonged distension and from inflammation. These factors contribute to post-thrombotic syndrome (PTS). Interleukin (IL)-6 might play a role in experimental PTS and vein wall responses. Previous assessments of post-thrombotic vein wall injury used static measures such as histologic examination and immunologic assays. The purpose of the present study was to use myography to quantify the changes in contraction and relaxation of murine vessels exposed to an acute VT.
METHODS: Wild-type (WT) C57BL/6 mice were used to determine the baseline vein wall passive tension on a DMT 610m myograph (DMT-USA, Inc., Ann Arbor, Mich), including dosing concentrations of phenylephrine (Phe) and acetylcholine (Ach). WT and IL-6-/- mice underwent VT using inferior vena cava (IVC) ligation (complete stasis) and stenosis (partial stasis), with no-surgery mice used as controls. The mice were harvested at 2 days (2D) and analyzed using a myograph. The vessels were stimulated with Phe and Ach to stimulate a contraction and relaxation response. The endothelial responses to VT were quantified by CD31 immunohistochemistry, Greiss assay, polymerase chain reaction, and Evans blue assay.
RESULTS: Optimal passive tension was determined to be 2 mN, with an optimal concentration of Phe and Ach of 7E-3M and 1E-5M, respectively. No significant differences were found in the contractions when exposed to Phe between the WT control, WT 2D ligation, and WT 2D stenosis IVC segments and the IL-6-/- mice with and without thrombus (P &gt; .05 for all). When treated with Ach, significantly more relaxation was found in the nonthrombosed control IVC segments than in those IVC segments that had had a 2D thrombus from either ligation- or stenosis-derived thrombotic mechanisms in both WT and IL-6-/- mice. CD31 staining showed ∼20% less luminal endothelium after stasis thrombosis (P ≤ .01) but no loss in the controls (P &gt; .05). Evans blue staining showed a trend toward increased leakiness in post-thrombotic vein walls. No significant difference in the endothelial gene markers or nitric oxide production was found.
CONCLUSIONS: Compared with the controls, acute thrombosis in the total or partial stasis models did not impair IVC contractile responses, suggesting no effect on the medial vascular smooth muscle response. The relaxation response was significantly reduced in the post-thrombotic groups, likely from direct endothelial injury. These findings suggest, at acute points, that VT impairs the endothelial function of a vein wall while retaining the vascular smooth muscle cell function and might be a mechanism that promotes PTS.

Citation: Metz AK, et al. Acute experimental venous thrombosis impairs venous relaxation but not contraction. Acute experimental venous thrombosis impairs venous relaxation but not contraction. 2020; 71:1006-1012.e1. doi: 10.1016/j.jvs.2019.03.064

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/31248758/
