PMID: 31250510
Title: A case of robotic assisted percutaneous coronary intervention of the left main coronary artery in a patient with very late baffle stenosis after surgical correction of anomalous left coronary artery from the pulmonary artery.

Abstract: A 34-year-old woman with history of surgical correction (Takeuchi procedure) of anomalous left coronary artery from the pulmonary artery (ALCAPA) presented with reduced left ventricular ejection fraction of 48% and severe ischemia quantified as 21% by stress Positron Emission Tomography (PET) scan. A coronary angiogram revealed ostial 90% stenosis of the left main coronary artery (LMCA). A guidewire (Sion Blue, Asahi Intecc USA, Inc., Santa Ana, CA) was navigated robotically and after pre-dilation with 3.5 × 15 mm cutting balloon, the lesion length was measured by marking the distal end of the lesion with the balloon marker and withdrawing back robotically to the ostium of the LMCA. A 3.5 × 16 mm drug-eluting stent was deployed robotically after intravascular ultrasound (IVUS) with good results. The main advantage of robotic percutaneous coronary intervention includes the precise measurement and positioning of the stent. Since the guide catheter and balloon can be adjusted without guide catheter and device interaction, precise placement of stent is possible by advancing the device distal to the lesion, positioning the guide catheter just proximal to the proximal edge of the stent and pulling the guidecatheter and device back as a unit. Final IVUS after post-dilation with 4.0 noncompliant and 5.0 compliant balloon revealed precise placement at the ostium and full stent expansion.

Citation: Hirai T, et al. A case of robotic assisted percutaneous coronary intervention of the left main coronary artery in a patient with very late baffle stenosis after surgical correction of anomalous left coronary artery from the pulmonary artery. A case of robotic assisted percutaneous coronary intervention of the left main coronary artery in a patient with very late baffle stenosis after surgical correction of anomalous left coronary artery from the pulmonary artery. 2020; 95:920-923. doi: 10.1002/ccd.28382

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/31250510/
