PMID: 31255456
Title: Clinical and radiological outcomes between biportal endoscopic decompression and microscopic decompression in lumbar spinal stenosis.

Abstract: BACKGROUND CONTEXT: Numerous minimal invasive techniques treating lumbar spinal stenosis have been introduced. Clinical results using biportal endoscopic spinal surgery has recently been introduced as a treatment option for lumbar spinal stenosis. The purpose of this study was to compare the clinical and radiologic outcome between microscopic unilateral laminotomy bilateral decompression and biportal endoscopic unilateral laminotomy bilateral decompression in patients with degenerative lumbar spinal stenosis.
METHOD: A total of 89 patients were evaluated for this study. Only single-level patients were enrolled for accurate comparison. Patients that underwent biportal endoscopic surgery were assigned to Group A, and patients that underwent microscopic surgery were designated Group B. Clinical outcomes were evaluated using modified Macnab criteria, Oswestry Disability Index, and Visual Analog Scale. Postoperative complications were checked until final follow up. Plain radiographs before and after surgery were compared to analyze the change of alignment.
RESULT: There was a significant difference between Group A and B in VAS of back on postoperative 2 months. Other clinical measurements except for postoperative 2 months VAS of back showed no significant difference. There were no significant differences between Group A and Group B regarding preoperative and postoperative radiological findings.
CONCLUSION: Two different decompression techniques preserve the spinal structure and exhibit a favorable clinical outcome and have the advantage of not causing postoperative instability in the short term follow up. Biportal endoscopic surgery may leads to less postoperative back pain than microscopic surgery, which may allow early ambulation and shorter hospitalization period.

Citation: Min WK, et al. Clinical and radiological outcomes between biportal endoscopic decompression and microscopic decompression in lumbar spinal stenosis. Clinical and radiological outcomes between biportal endoscopic decompression and microscopic decompression in lumbar spinal stenosis. 2020; 25:371-378. doi: 10.1016/j.jos.2019.05.022

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/31255456/
