PMID: 31267549
Title: Changes in Carotid Duplex Ultrasound Velocities After Aortic Valve Replacement for Severe Aortic Stenosis.

Abstract: OBJECTIVES: The peak systolic velocity (PSV) and end-diastolic velocity (EDV) obtained by carotid duplex ultrasound (CDU) imaging of the internal carotid arteries (ICAs) are parameters used to determine the severity of ICA stenosis. Severe aortic stenosis (AS) results in a parvus-et-tardus pattern on spectral Doppler waveforms; however, the impact of severe AS on CDU velocities is unclear. The purpose of this study was to assess the impact of severe AS on CDU velocities by evaluating changes in CDU velocities before and after aortic valve replacement (AVR) METHODS: A single-center retrospective review of patients with severe AS who underwent surgical AVR and who had preoperative and postoperative CDU examinations performed within 12 months of each other was conducted. Patients with any carotid intervention between the preoperative and postoperative CDU were excluded.
RESULTS: We identified 92 patients who satisfied all inclusion criteria. The mean age was 72.2 years; 71.7% were men; the mean preoperative aortic valve area ± SD was 0.8 ± 0.2 cm2 ; and the mean time from preoperative to postoperative AVR CDU was 182.3 ± 98.4 days. The peak aortic valve gradient decreased from 62.5 to 22.0 mm Hg after AVR (P &lt; .001); however, there were no significant changes in the PSV or EDV in either the right or left ICA.
CONCLUSIONS: Although severe AS may cause characteristic changes in the spectral Doppler waveform on CDU imaging, there is no significant effect on the ICA PSV or EDV. Adjustments in velocity criteria to determine the degree of carotid artery stenosis in patients with substantial AS may not be necessary.

Citation: Shivapour DM, et al. Changes in Carotid Duplex Ultrasound Velocities After Aortic Valve Replacement for Severe Aortic Stenosis. Changes in Carotid Duplex Ultrasound Velocities After Aortic Valve Replacement for Severe Aortic Stenosis. 2020; 39:139-145. doi: 10.1002/jum.15087

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/31267549/
