PMID: 31295979
Title: Healing of Aneurysm after Treatment Using Flow Diverter Stent : Histopathological Study in Experimental Canine Carotid Side Wall Aneurysm.

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: Despite widespread use of flow diverters (FDs) to treat aneurysms, the exact healing mechanism associated with FDs remains poorly understood. We aim to describe the healing process of aneurysms treated using FDs by demonstrating the histopathologic progression in a canine aneurysm model.
METHODS: Twenty-one side wall aneurysms were created in common carotid artery of eight dogs and treated with two different FDs. Angiographic follow-ups were done immediately after placement of the device, 4 weeks and 12 weeks. At last follow-up, the aneurysm and the device-implanted parent artery were harvested.
RESULTS: Histopathologic findings of aneurysms at 4 weeks follow-up showed intra-aneurysm thrombus formation in laminating fashion, and neointimal thickening at the mid-segment of aneurysm. However, there are inhomogenous findings in aneurysms treated with the same type of FD showing same angiographic outcomes. At 12 weeks, aneurysms of complete and near-complete occlusion revealed markedly shrunken aneurysm filled with organized connective tissues with thin neointima. Aneurysms of incomplete occlusion at 12 weeks showed small amount of organized thrombus around fringe neck and large empty space with thick neointmal formation. Neointimal thickness and diameter stenosis was not significantly different between the groups of FD specification and follow-up period.
CONCLUSION: Intra-aneurysmal thrombus formation and organization seem to be an important factor for the complete occlusion of aneurysms treated using the FD. Neointimal formation could occur along the struts of the FD independently of intra-aneurysmal thrombus formation. However, neointimal formation could not solely lead to complete aneurysm healing.

Citation: Lee JY, et al. Healing of Aneurysm after Treatment Using Flow Diverter Stent : Histopathological Study in Experimental Canine Carotid Side Wall Aneurysm. Healing of Aneurysm after Treatment Using Flow Diverter Stent : Histopathological Study in Experimental Canine Carotid Side Wall Aneurysm. 2020; 63:34-44. doi: 10.3340/jkns.2019.0067

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/31295979/
