PMID: 31326110
Title: Laparoscopic extravesical ureteral reimplantation for correction of primary and secondary megaureters: Preliminary report of a new simplified technique.

Abstract: PURPOSE: To describe a simplified surgical technique for the treatment of primary and secondary obstructed megaureters in children by laparoscopic extravesical ureteral reimplantation (LEUR) and evaluate the short-term outcomes.
METHODS: Prospective study of children with primary and secondary megaureters treated at our institution between 2016 and 2018 by LEUR. A transperitoneal approach was used in all cases. The distal ureter was transected at the level of the stenosis. Detrusor muscle fibers were divided to expose bladder mucosa. The distal ureter was introduced into the bladder to create a valve-like mechanism. The ureter was fixed to the bladder mucosa by four stitches. We analyzed indications for surgery, complications and outcomes. Definition of success was relieved of obstruction and absence of VUR.
RESULTS: Six patients with a mean age of 28.83 months (SD: 21.4) underwent LEUR. Indications for surgery were: infection [2], obstruction [2], decrease in renal differential function [1] and increase in hydronephrosis [1]. There were no intraoperative complications. Resolution of hydronephrosis, obstruction and VUR was achieved in all cases. Mean follow-up was 13 months (SD: 6.67).
CONCLUSION: LEUR for the correction of primary and secondary megaureters by this new technique is safe. The most important advantage is that this technique is simpler and more easily reproducible than conventional LEUR. However, long-term follow-up is required.
TYPE OF STUDY: Prospective, observational.
LEVEL OF EVIDENCE: Level III.

Citation: Gander R, et al. Laparoscopic extravesical ureteral reimplantation for correction of primary and secondary megaureters: Preliminary report of a new simplified technique. Laparoscopic extravesical ureteral reimplantation for correction of primary and secondary megaureters: Preliminary report of a new simplified technique. 2020; 55:564-569. doi: 10.1016/j.jpedsurg.2019.05.028

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/31326110/
