PMID: 31325591
Title: Surgical Principles of Segmental Rectosigmoid Resection and Reanastomosis for Deep Infiltrating Endometriosis.

Abstract: STUDY OBJECTIVE: To demonstrate the surgical steps involved in segmental rectosigmoid resection and reanastomosis in a deep infiltrating endometriosis (DIE) setting.
DESIGN: Step-by-step video demonstration of the technique.
SETTING: Despite efforts made to identify criteria able to reliably predict which patients would be more likely to benefit from segmental bowel resection, such predictability remains an area of controversy and ambiguity. Furthermore, a standardized surgical technique has not yet been defined. Based on our experience, patients with DIE and colorectal involvement should be considered for segmental resection followed by anastomosis if they present with lesions not suitable for shaving/nodulectomy (i.e., large, deeply infiltrating nodules with extensive circumferential involvement). In our practice, careful patient selection together with the adoption of a standardized surgical technique allowed us to minimize the potential complications associated with segmental bowel resection.
INTERVENTION: The patient was a 27-year-old woman diagnosed by ultrasonography with a bowel endometriotic nodule of 33 × 8 × 14 mm infiltrating the inner layer of the muscularis propria at the rectosigmoid junction, with a distance from the anal verge of approximately 12 cm and an estimated stenosis of 50%. A 3-dimensional laparoscopic segmental rectosigmoid resection was performed, and indocyanine green-enhanced fluorescent angiography was used to assess perfusion of the bowel before completion of the anastomosis. The total operative time was 135 minutes, and no intraoperative complications occurred. Complete excision of endometriosis was achieved. The estimated blood loss was 30 mL. An intra-abdominal drain was not placed, and the urinary catheter was removed at the end of surgery. The patient was discharged at 6 days after surgery and did not experience any postoperative complications. The bowel endometriotic nodule measured 34 × 8 × 13 mm in a fresh specimen.
CONCLUSION: Advanced laparoscopic surgical skills are needed to properly perform segmental rectosigmoid resection. Subspecialization and adequate pretreatment evaluation are crucial to ensure the correct decision making process within a complex algorithm for surgical management of bowel endometriosis.

Citation: Malzoni M, et al. Surgical Principles of Segmental Rectosigmoid Resection and Reanastomosis for Deep Infiltrating Endometriosis. Surgical Principles of Segmental Rectosigmoid Resection and Reanastomosis for Deep Infiltrating Endometriosis. 2020; 27:258. doi: 10.1016/j.jmig.2019.06.018

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/31325591/
