PMID: 31333051
Title: Internal carotid artery occlusion may affect long-term quality of life in patients with high-flow carotid cavernous fistulas.

Abstract: PURPOSE: To investigate the mid- and long-term effects of parent artery occlusion on the carotid cavernous fistula and on the quality of life of patients.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: One hundred and twenty-six patients with high-flow direct carotid cavernous fistulas were enrolled. The modified Rankin scale scores, the headache impact test and the short form health survey scores were used to evaluate the patients' clinical status.
RESULTS: Fifty-two patients had parent artery occlusion, while the rest of the 74 patients had embolization of carotid cavernous fistulas with parent artery preservation. No periprocedural complications occurred. Eighteen patients in the parent artery occlusion group had low perfusion symptoms within two weeks following embolization, and three patients had Horner's syndrome on the ipsilateral side. At two months' follow-up, the patients with parent artery occlusion had a significantly (P &lt; 0.05) greater proportion of headache than patients with parent artery preservation. At 12 months, no significant (P &gt; 0.05) difference existed in the headache impact test scores in both groups. At 36 months' follow-up, the patients with parent artery occlusion had decreased SF-30 scores in all the eight health domains compared with patients treated with parent artery preservation, with a significant (P &lt; 0.05) lower score in general health, vitality and bodily pain in the parent artery occlusion compared with the parent artery preservation group. No recurrence was shown in patients with parent artery occlusion, but nine (12.2%) patients were recurrent in patients with parent artery preservation.
CONCLUSION: Parent artery occlusion may affect the quality of life of patients with carotid cavernous fistulas despite being an effective treatment option for high-flow direct fistulas.

Citation: Dai RQ, et al. Internal carotid artery occlusion may affect long-term quality of life in patients with high-flow carotid cavernous fistulas. Internal carotid artery occlusion may affect long-term quality of life in patients with high-flow carotid cavernous fistulas. 2020; 26:83-89. doi: 10.1177/1591019919864668

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/31333051/
