PMID: 31330180
Title: Sutureless and Transcatheter Aortic Valve Replacement: When Rivals Become Allies.

Abstract: In recent years, sutureless aortic valve replacement (SU-AVR) and transcatheter aortic valve replacement (TAVR) have emerged as viable alternatives to standard surgical aortic valve replacement (AVR) in higher risk patients. We report 7 cases in which SU-AVR and TAVR were used as bailout procedures for each other. Between June 2011 and August 2018, 626 patients underwent SU-AVR with the Perceval S prosthesis, and 588 patients underwent TAVR at the Montreal Heart Institute. Herein, we report the cases of 7 patients who underwent both procedures within a short time frame: 3 patients who underwent SU-AVR with a Perceval prosthesis after a failed TAVR procedure, 3 patients who underwent TAVR after degeneration of a surgically implanted Perceval sutureless prosthesis, and 1 patient who was scheduled for multiple percutaneous interventions-including TAVR, right coronary angioplasty, atrial fibrillation ablation with left atrial appendage occlusion-who suffered a periprocedural complication requiring an emergent surgery, during which a Perceval sutureless prosthesis was deployed. All patients were discharged home alive. Two patients suffered a complete heart block requiring permanent pacemaker implantation. We demonstrate that SU-AVR with the Perceval S prosthesis and TAVR are complementary procedures within the therapeutic armamentarium to treat aortic valve disease in higher risk patients. Specifically, valve-in-valve TAVR is an attractive option in the setting of Perceval prosthesis degeneration, whereas SU-AVR is a useful bailout option in the context of periprocedural failure of a TAVR.

Citation: Ellouze M, et al. Sutureless and Transcatheter Aortic Valve Replacement: When Rivals Become Allies. Sutureless and Transcatheter Aortic Valve Replacement: When Rivals Become Allies. 2020; 32:427-430. doi: 10.1053/j.semtcvs.2019.07.003

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/31330180/
