PMID: 31342337
Title: A Concentric Tube Robot System for Rigid Bronchoscopy: A Feasibility Study on Central Airway Obstruction Removal.

Abstract: New robotic systems have recently emerged to assist with peripheral lung access, but a robotic system for rigid bronchoscopy has yet to be developed. We describe a new robotic system that can deliver thin robotic manipulators through the ports of standard rigid bronchoscopes. The manipulators bend and elongate to provide maneuverability of surgical tools at the endoscope tip, without endoscope motion. We describe an initial feasibility study on the use of this system to bronchoscopically treat a central airway obstruction (CAO). CAO is prevalent and can be life-threatening in patients with large tumors, and conventional rigid bronchoscopic treatments place patients at risk of complications including broken teeth, neck trauma and damage to oropharyngeal structures due to significant forces induced by bronchoscope tilting and manipulation. In this study, we used an ex vivo ovine airway model to demonstrate the ability of a physician using the robotic system to efficiently remove tissue and restore the airway. Pre- and post-operative CT scans showed that the robot was able to reduce the degree of airway obstruction stenosis from 75 to 14% on average for five CAO resections performed in an ex vivo animal model. Using cadaver experiments, we demonstrated the potential of the robotic system to substantially reduce the intraoperative forces applied to the patient's head and neck (from 80.6 to 4.1 N). These preliminary results illustrate that CAO removal is feasible with our new rigid bronchoscopy robot system, and that this approach has the potential to reduce forces applied to the patient due to bronchoscope angulation, and thereby reduce the risk of complications encountered during CAO surgery.

Citation: Gafford JB, et al. A Concentric Tube Robot System for Rigid Bronchoscopy: A Feasibility Study on Central Airway Obstruction Removal. A Concentric Tube Robot System for Rigid Bronchoscopy: A Feasibility Study on Central Airway Obstruction Removal. 2020; 48:181-191. doi: 10.1007/s10439-019-02325-x

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/31342337/
