PMID: 31343566
Title: Tubular Ectasia in Renal Allograft Biopsy: Associations With Occult Obstructive Urological Complications.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Urological obstructive complications (UOC) affect up to 15% of kidney transplants (KTX). Most cases are excluded by ultrasonography (US); however, accuracy may be limited in the early transplant phase. Features of acute tubular injury (ATI) in KTX biopsy may be informative but histological features indicating UOC are ill defined. Tubular ectasia (TE) was shown to be associated with UOC in experimental data. We evaluated the association of histomorphological features, particularly TE, with occult (=without relevant hydronephrosis in US) UOC and renal outcomes.
METHODS: We included all recipients with an early indication biopsy (976 of 1537 consecutive KTX). The biopsy finding of TE classified as "suspicious of UOC" was compared with the following endpoints: delayed graft function, estimated glomerular filtration rate, and occult UOC. Additionally, histopathological features of ATI were reevaluated by a single pathologist to increase diagnostic accuracy.
RESULTS: Fifty-eight (5.9%) patients presented with TE, which was not related to delayed graft function or estimated glomerular filtration rate. Forty percent of patients had a UOC (most frequently ureteral stenosis) close to biopsy. Comparing these biopsies to matched controls, TE was significantly associated with UOC (odds ratio 2.69; P = 0.018). After histopathological reevaluation of these biopsies including additional features of ATI, we developed a final multivariate model with a highly significant relationship to UOC (Receiver operating characteristic-area under the curve: 0.77; P = 0.001). The model provides a specificity of 78% and negative predictive value of 73%.
CONCLUSIONS: TE together with additional signs of ATI indicates occult UOC. This histological phenotype should trigger more detailed evaluation for UOC when there is no evidence of relevant hydronephrosis in the ultrasonography.

Citation: Bojić M, et al. Tubular Ectasia in Renal Allograft Biopsy: Associations With Occult Obstructive Urological Complications. Tubular Ectasia in Renal Allograft Biopsy: Associations With Occult Obstructive Urological Complications. 2020; 104:145-153. doi: 10.1097/TP.0000000000002699

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/31343566/
