PMID: 31350919
Title: Slide laryngotracheoplasty for congenital subglottic stenosis in newborns and infants.

Abstract: OBJECTIVES: Subglottic stenosis is the most common laryngeal anomaly necessitating tracheostomy in early childhood. Crico- and laryngotracheal resection and laryngotracheal reconstruction-usually with autologous cartilage graft implantation-are the most effective treatments. These surgical techniques are obviously challenging in neonatal age and infancy. However, a reconstructive surgery performed at early age may prevent the sequel of complications.
METHODS: The authors present their novel surgical method for congenital subglottic stenosis. Seven infants had inspiratory stridor; two of them had to be intubated and one required tracheostomy. Laryngotracheoscopy, CT or MRI revealed subglottic stenosis: Cotton-Myer grade II in one, and grade III in six cases. Slide laryngotracheoplasty was performed before 5 months of age (10-130 days), with a follow-up period of average 36 months (4-80 months). Phoniatry and quality of life questionnaire were used for evaluation of postoperative results.
RESULTS: Slide laryngotracheoplasty in the neonatal age made the temporary tracheostomy unnecessary. All babies remained intubated for 3 to 10 days with an uncuffed tracheal tube. After extubation, no dyspnea or swallowing disorder occurred. A subjective quality of life questionnaire, laryngotracheoscopy, clinical growth charts showed satisfactory functional results.
CONCLUSIONS: Single-stage slide laryngotracheoplasty might be a favorable solution for subglottic stenosis, even in early childhood. In one step, the airway can be maintained without stenting and tracheostomy.
LEVEL OF EVIDENCE: 4 Laryngoscope, 130:E199-E205, 2020.

Citation: Rovó L, et al. Slide laryngotracheoplasty for congenital subglottic stenosis in newborns and infants. Slide laryngotracheoplasty for congenital subglottic stenosis in newborns and infants. 2020; 130:E199-E205. doi: 10.1002/lary.28192

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/31350919/
