PMID: 31373680
Title: The suction-assisted endoscopic suture technique: A simple method for endotracheal suturing.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Silicone stents are commonly employed to treat subglottic stenosis. A frequent complication is the tendency of stents to migrate. As such, various techniques to secure stents have been developed over the years, none of which have gained large popularity. We present a novel, low-cost, and easy-to-perform technique herein.
OBJECTIVES: To describe a novel surgical technique to secure silicone stents and prevent migration for management of subglottic stenosis.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: After standard excision and dilation of stenotic portions in the subglottic or trachea. A silicone stent is introduced in a standard fashion. To secure the stent, an 18-G needle loaded with braided suture is inserted through skin, trachea, and stent. Endoscopic visualization then permits the surgeon to grasp the suture with forceps. A separate transcutaneous puncture site is performed with an 18-G needle attached to a 10-cc syringe (plunger removed) and blue tip suction within the empty syringe, creating an airtight suctioning tool. The grasped suture is gently introduced into the eye of the needle and quickly travels into the 10-cc syringe with suction assist, leaving both extracorporeal ends of the suture to tie.
RESULTS: This stitch has been employed on seven occasions on four patients. There have been no episodes of stent migration. A laboratory model found the 18-G needle and braided 3-0 suture performed optimally.
CONCLUSIONS: We present a novel surgical technique to secure silicone stents in management subglottic or tracheal stenosis.
LEVEL OF EVIDENCE: Level 4 Laryngoscope, 130:E346-E348, 2020.

Citation: Charous SJ and Westfall E. The suction-assisted endoscopic suture technique: A simple method for endotracheal suturing. The suction-assisted endoscopic suture technique: A simple method for endotracheal suturing. 2020; 130:E346-E348. doi: 10.1002/lary.28199

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/31373680/
