PMID: 31385849
Title: Potential Role of Paraspinal Musculature in the Maintenance of Spinopelvic Alignment in Patients With Adult Spinal Deformities.

Abstract: STUDY DESIGN: A retrospective observational study.
OBJECTIVES: To (1) compare skeletal muscle mass index (SMI) and the composition of paraspinal muscles between patients with lumbar spinal stenosis (LSS) and adult spinal deformity (ASD) who underwent spinal surgery, (2) determine whether paraspinal muscles influence low back pain in ASD, and (3) ascertain which radiographic spinal parameters of ASD are predominantly influenced by paraspinal muscles.
SUMMARY OF BACKGROUND DATA: Relative muscle cross-sectional area (rmCSA; total CSA minus intramuscular fat CSA) determined using magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) is useful when evaluating not only muscle volume but also muscle quality. Currently, no study has examined paraspinal muscles using rmCSAs to determine which radiographic spinopelvic parameters identified in patients with severe spinal deformities make them candidates for thoracolumbar corrective surgery.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Paraspinal muscle rmCSAs were calculated using preoperative T2-weighted MRIs at the L3/4 axial level. Whole-body bone mineral density and lean, soft tissue mass were measured using dual-energy x-ray absorptiometry. SMI was calculated as appendicular (upper and lower limbs) lean, soft tissue mass (kg/m). Correlations between low back pain according to the Roland-Morris Disability Questionnaire, Oswestry Disability Index, spinopelvic parameters, and rmCSA were evaluated for 110 consecutive patients with ASD and 50 consecutive patients with LSS who underwent spinal surgery.
RESULTS: There was no significant difference in the total SMI and morbidity rate of sarcopenia between patients with ASD and LSS. A significant negative correlation between Oswestry Disability Index and the rmCSA of the multifidus muscles and the rmCSA of the erector muscles were observed. There was a significant positive correlation between pelvic tilt/sacral slope and multifidus/erector muscles.
CONCLUSIONS: Paraspinal muscles evaluated with MRI were more significantly associated with the pathology of ASD compared with appendicular skeletal muscle evaluations with dual-energy x-ray absorptiometry. The present study indicates that multifidus and erector muscles significantly influenced the maintenance of the pelvic alignment.
LEVEL OF EVIDENCE: Level III.

Citation: Katsu M, et al. Potential Role of Paraspinal Musculature in the Maintenance of Spinopelvic Alignment in Patients With Adult Spinal Deformities. Potential Role of Paraspinal Musculature in the Maintenance of Spinopelvic Alignment in Patients With Adult Spinal Deformities. 2020; 33:E76-E80. doi: 10.1097/BSD.0000000000000862

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/31385849/
