PMID: 31402242
Title: Results of the York Mason Procedure with and without Concomitant Graciloplasty to Treat Iatrogenic Rectourethral Fistulas.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Rectourethral fistulas (RUFs) are rare but devastating complications after surgery or radiation therapy to the urethra, prostate, or rectum. RUF repair is challenging, especially in irradiated patients.
OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the efficacy of the York Mason (YM) procedure with or without concomitant gracilis muscle interposition (graciloplasty) for RUF repair.
DESIGN, SETTING, AND PARTICIPANTS: Records of patients with an iatrogenic RUF who underwent the YM procedure between 2008 and 2018 in two university hospitals were reviewed. Data on etiology, diagnostic and operative procedures, urinary and fecal diversion, and postoperative follow-up were collected.
INTERVENTION: Twenty-eight patients underwent 33 YM procedures. Concomitant graciloplasty was performed in four (14%) primary repairs and two (7%) repairs for recurrent RUFs.
OUTCOME MEASUREMENTS AND STATISTICAL ANALYSIS: The primary endpoint was successful RUF repair, defined as absence of symptoms and no leakage on control urethrocystography. The secondary endpoint was colostomy reversal rate.
RESULTS AND LIMITATIONS: Median follow-up was 24 mo. Ten patients (36%) were irradiated previously. The ultimate success rate was 75% after a maximum of three YM procedures. Success rates were 89% and 50% in patients with nonirradiated and irradiated fistulas, respectively. In irradiated patients, the success rates of the first YM procedure with and without graciloplasty were 100% and 29%, respectively. In recurrent cases, concomitant graciloplasty did not result in better outcomes. Colostomy reversal was possible in 15 patients after successful repair. In all patients, fecal continence was intact and no anal stenosis was reported. Limitations of the study include small sample size and the retrospective design.
CONCLUSIONS: Combination of the YM procedure with graciloplasty resulted in higher success rates of RUF repair in patients with irradiated fistulas. Fecal continence was preserved, and colostomy reversal is feasible.
PATIENT SUMMARY: We analyzed the outcomes, complications, and colostomy reversal rate of the York Mason procedure for the repair of rectourethral fistulas (RUFs). We found that concomitant graciloplasty increases success rates in case of prior radiation therapy. Colostomy reversal is feasible after RUF repair.

Citation: van der Doelen MJ, et al. Results of the York Mason Procedure with and without Concomitant Graciloplasty to Treat Iatrogenic Rectourethral Fistulas. Results of the York Mason Procedure with and without Concomitant Graciloplasty to Treat Iatrogenic Rectourethral Fistulas. 2020; 6:762-769. doi: 10.1016/j.euf.2019.07.005

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/31402242/
