PMID: 31463879
Title: Value of robotic-assisted technique in redo gastrojejunostomy for severe stenosis after gastric bypass.

Abstract: Development of gastrojejunal stricture following Roux-en-Y gastric bypass (RYGB) leads to an increase in morbidity and adverse effects, such as abdominal pain, vomiting, aspiration pneumonia, and malnutrition. Up to 38.5% of patients will require revisional surgery for late anastomotic strictures despite conservative treatment. However, no previous studies focused on revisional robotic bariatric surgery due to strictures after RYGB have been reported. To evaluate our outcomes and assess the advantages of the robotic platform with regard to laparoscopic and open revisional procedures. University Hospital. We performed a retrospective analysis of patients who underwent laparoscopic robotic-assisted redo gastrojejunostomy from 2016 to 2018. Demographics, surgical data, medical treatments, postoperative outcomes, and adverse effects were collected. Nine patients with symptomatic anastomotic strictures after primary RYGB underwent robotic revisional surgery. All patients received medical therapy as a first approach, and five patients (55.5%) underwent endoscopic balloon dilation. All procedures were successfully completed with robotic assistance, with a mean (standard deviation) operative time of 184.5 (49.1) min, and no intraoperative adverse effects were registered. Median (range) hospital stay was 2 (1-4) days. One patient presented with a postoperative intra-abdominal abscess and was treated with intravenous antibiotics and image-guided drainage. No anastomotic leak, hemorrhage, or mortality were reported. Robotic assistance seems to be safe and effective for redo gastrojejunostomy secondary to stricture. Even though the sample size is small, we believe that the application of robotic techniques may provide advantages and improve the outcomes in these complex revisional procedures.

Citation: Diaz-Vico T and Elli EF. Value of robotic-assisted technique in redo gastrojejunostomy for severe stenosis after gastric bypass. Value of robotic-assisted technique in redo gastrojejunostomy for severe stenosis after gastric bypass. 2020; 14:463-471. doi: 10.1007/s11701-019-01009-x

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/31463879/
