PMID: 31505277
Title: Posterior Percutaneous Endoscopic Technique Through Bilateral Translaminar Osseous Channels for Thoracic Spinal Stenosis Caused by Ossification of the Ligamentum Flavum Combined with Disk Herniation at the T10-11 Level: A Technical Note.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: The occurrence rate of thoracic spinal stenosis caused by ossification of the ligamentum flavum combined with disk herniation is lower than that of ossified ligamentum flavum in the thoracic spine, and the treatment method has rarely been reported. In this paper, we applied an endoscopic technique to a patient with thoracic spinal stenosis caused by ossification of the ligamentum flavum combined with disk herniation at the T10-11 level.
METHODS: We performed surgical decompression of the thoracic spinal cord for a patient diagnosed with thoracic spinal stenosis at the T10-11 level caused by ossification of the ligamentum flavum combined with disk herniation using percutaneous endoscopic surgery via the bilateral translaminar osseous channel approach. Pre- and postoperative computed tomography (CT) scan and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) examinations were performed, and pre- and postoperative neurologic status was evaluated using the Modified Japanese Orthopaedic Association and visual analog scale scores.
RESULTS: The ossified ligamentum flavum and herniated disk material were removed through this osseous channel. Postoperative CT and MRI scanning revealed adequate decompression of the spinal cord at the T10-11 level. The patient was discharged home on postoperative day 3. At 6-month postoperative follow-up, the patient experienced complete resolution of T12 dermatomal numbness. The strength in her bilateral lower extremities improved slightly to grade 5.
CONCLUSIONS: We have applied percutaneous endoscopic surgery via bilateral translaminar osseous channels for the treatment of thoracic spinal stenosis caused by ossification of the ligamentum flavum combined with disk herniation. This surgery could provide sufficient decompression for thoracic spinal cord with minimum trauma.

Citation: Liu L, et al. Posterior Percutaneous Endoscopic Technique Through Bilateral Translaminar Osseous Channels for Thoracic Spinal Stenosis Caused by Ossification of the Ligamentum Flavum Combined with Disk Herniation at the T10-11 Level: A Technical Note. Posterior Percutaneous Endoscopic Technique Through Bilateral Translaminar Osseous Channels for Thoracic Spinal Stenosis Caused by Ossification of the Ligamentum Flavum Combined with Disk Herniation at the T10-11 Level: A Technical Note. 2020; 133:135-141. doi: 10.1016/j.wneu.2019.08.215

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/31505277/
