PMID: 31512054
Title: Utility of computed tomography in cases of aortic valve stenosis before and after transcatheter aortic valve implantation.

Abstract: Trans-catheter aortic valve implantation (TAVI) has been recognized as a useful treatment for patients with severe aortic valve stenosis, particularly those with moderate to high risks of open heart surgery. A thorough evaluation of the aortic valve complex, including the size or presence of calcifications of the leaflets and annulus, is important for the selection of appropriate candidates, artificial valve types and approach. Echocardiography is useful for the precise evaluation of aortic valve stenosis severity and aortic valve complex morphology, but it is not useful to evaluate three-dimensional aortic valve anatomy and pathway for the catheter of aortic valve implantation. Electrocardiography (ECG)-gating computed tomography (CT) has recently been recognized as a useful modality for evaluating significant coronary artery stenosis because of its higher spatial and temporal resolution and diagnostic accuracy based on recent studies. ECG-gating CT is also useful for evaluating aortic valve complex morphology, including calcifications and whole aorta and iliac arteries, as the access route of catheter in TAVI. TAVI candidates, who are at high risk of open surgery, tend to be old and require anti-platelet after TAVI; therefore CT, is also useful for screening for non-cardiac diseases including malignant tumors just before TAVI. Therefore, here we introduce the utility of cardiac and whole body CT in cases of severe aortic valve stenosis before and after TAVI.

Citation: Takaoka H, et al. Utility of computed tomography in cases of aortic valve stenosis before and after transcatheter aortic valve implantation. Utility of computed tomography in cases of aortic valve stenosis before and after transcatheter aortic valve implantation. 2020; 35:72-84. doi: 10.1007/s12928-019-00618-5

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/31512054/
