PMID: 31529074
Title: Contrast Dispersion on Epidurography May Be Associated with Clinical Outcomes After Percutaneous Epidural Neuroplasty Using an Inflatable Balloon Catheter.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Contrast dispersion pattern on epidurography may be associated with clinical improvement after epidural neuroplasty. However, insufficient evidence supports this theory. The current study aims to evaluate the relevance of contrast dispersion and clinical improvement after percutaneous epidural neuroplasty using an inflatable balloon catheter.
METHODS: One hundred patients with lumbar spinal stenosis who underwent combined balloon decompression and epidural adhesiolysis between March 2015 to December 2015 participated in the present study. Participants were divided into two groups by contrast dispersion pattern on postprocedural epidurography: the complete contrast dispersion (CCD) and incomplete contrast dispersion (ICCD) groups. The numeric rating scale (NRS), Oswestry Disability Index (ODI), and global perceived effects (GPE) were each assessed before and one, three, six, nine, and 12 months after the intervention.
RESULTS: After combined balloon decompression and adhesiolysis, significant pain reduction and functional improvement were maintained up to 12 months in patients with lumbar spinal stenosis. NRS and GPE in the CCD group were significantly lower than in the ICCD group from six to 12 months after the intervention. The ODI in the CCD group was also significantly lower compared with that in the ICCD group from one to 12 months after the intervention.
CONCLUSIONS: Combined balloon decompression and adhesiolysis with the inflatable balloon catheter can provide noteworthy pain reduction and improvement of physical function for a long-term period in patients with lumbar spinal stenosis. Because CCD showed better clinical improvement compared with ICCD, a contrast dispersion pattern may be associated with an improved clinical outcome.

Citation: Kim DH, et al. Contrast Dispersion on Epidurography May Be Associated with Clinical Outcomes After Percutaneous Epidural Neuroplasty Using an Inflatable Balloon Catheter. Contrast Dispersion on Epidurography May Be Associated with Clinical Outcomes After Percutaneous Epidural Neuroplasty Using an Inflatable Balloon Catheter. 2020; 21:677-685. doi: 10.1093/pm/pnz225

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/31529074/
