PMID: 31536811
Title: Posterior Cervical Muscle-Preserving Interspinous Process Approach and Decompression: More Minimally Invasive and Modified Shiraishi's Selective Laminectomy.

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: The cervical extensor musculature is important in cases of neck pain and loss of cervical lordosis after laminoplasty. Therefore, various surgical methods have been developed to preserve the muscle during laminoplasty. We have developed a posterior cervical muscle-preserving interspinous process (MIS) approach and decompression method. We have described the operation details and clinical outcomes of selected patients who have undergone this procedure.
METHODS: The MIS approach and decompression method were performed in 20 consecutive patients who had only required central decompression for cervical stenosis. This procedure includes an approach to the interspinous space that is similar to Shiraishi's method but includes decompression without fracturing the spina bifida.
RESULTS: The patients had no complications and did not require conversion to conventional laminoplasty. The mean operative time and mean blood loss was 53.0 minutes and 63.0 mL per level, respectively, and the mean hospital stay was 4.0 days. The mean preoperative and 3-month postoperative modified Japanese Orthopedic Association scores were 12.6 and 16.2, and the mean preoperative and 3-month postoperative neck disability index scores were 15.4 and 2.5, respectively. The postoperative neck visual analog scale score was 0.8. The mean preoperative and postoperative sagittal vertical axis was 1.6 and 1.8 cm, respectively. The mean loss of lordosis was 1.0°, and the mean cervical range of motion did not change from preoperatively to postoperatively.
CONCLUSIONS: The MIS approach and decompression method was less invasive than both conventional laminoplasty and Shiraishi's selective laminectomy. It is a safe and effective minimally invasive technique for central stenosis caused by cervical spondylotic myelopathy.

Citation: Lee BJ, et al. Posterior Cervical Muscle-Preserving Interspinous Process Approach and Decompression: More Minimally Invasive and Modified Shiraishi's Selective Laminectomy. Posterior Cervical Muscle-Preserving Interspinous Process Approach and Decompression: More Minimally Invasive and Modified Shiraishi's Selective Laminectomy. 2020; 133:e412-e420. doi: 10.1016/j.wneu.2019.09.041

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/31536811/
