PMID: 31548077
Title: Entire mitral reconstruction with porcine extracellular matrix in an acute porcine model.

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: The objective of our study was to investigate the feasibility of reconstructing the entire mitral valvular and subvalvular apparatus in pigs using a modified tube graft design made of 2-ply small intestinal submucosa extracellular matrix.
METHODS: The reconstructions were performed in an acute 80-kg porcine model with 8 pigs, each acting as its own control. A modified tube graft was designed from a sheet of 2-ply small intestinal submucosa extracellular matrix. Before and after mitral valve reconstruction, echocardiography was used to assess mitral regurgitation, left ventricular outflow tract obstruction due to systolic anterior motion, mitral stenosis, leaflet mobility, and leaflet geometry.
RESULTS: The reconstructed mitral valves were fully functional without any observable echocardiographic signs of regurgitation. We did not observe any left ventricular outflow tract obstruction due to systolic anterior motion nor any mitral valve stenosis, despite a diminished septal-lateral distance after reconstruction. The reconstruction had a reduced tenting area, a reduced coaptation length (9.6 ± 1.7 mm vs 7.9 ± 1.0 mm, P = .010, diff = -1.7 mm, 95% confidence interval, -3.1 to -0.4 mm), and atrial bending of both leaflets.
CONCLUSIONS: In this acute porcine study, entire mitral valvular and subvalvular apparatus reconstruction using a modified tube graft design made from 2-ply small intestinal submucosal extracellular matrix was feasible. The 2-ply small intestinal submucosa extracellular matrix could withstand the pressure exerted by the left ventricle without any signs of tearing or rupture. These promising results warrant further assessment of both the annular geometry and the long-term durability.

Citation: Tjørnild MJ, et al. Entire mitral reconstruction with porcine extracellular matrix in an acute porcine model. Entire mitral reconstruction with porcine extracellular matrix in an acute porcine model. 2020; 160:102-112. doi: 10.1016/j.jtcvs.2019.07.085

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/31548077/
