PMID: 31552913
Title: EUS-guided biliary drainage for the management of benign biliary strictures in patients with altered anatomy: A single-center experience.

Abstract: BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES: The management of benign biliary stricture in patients with altered anatomy secondary to surgery is challenging. Percutaneous transhepatic biliary drainage (BD) represents the standard therapy for benign biliary stricture, but it is associated with nontrivial morbidity rates. Despite the increasing application of guided BD (EUS-BD) for the management of malignant obstruction, its role in patients with benign biliary stricture is limited. This retrospective study aimed to evaluate the feasibility, safety, and clinical effectiveness of EUS-BD with multiple transanastomotic plastic stent treatment in patients with benign biliary stricture.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: This study included consecutive patients who underwent EUS-BD for benign biliary stenosis at our center. EUS-BD with fully covered self-expandable metal stent placement was performed first. When feasible, the stricture was treated by balloon dilation with the placement of a transanastomotic double-pigtail plastic stent. Scheduled procedures were repeated to remove the metal stent and replace the plastic stent to treat the stenosis. Technical success and adverse events (AEs) were assessed.
RESULTS: Twelve patients underwent EUS-BD for benign biliary strictures. Procedural and clinical successes were achieved in all patients (100%). Multistenting treatment was performed in 10/12 patients (77%). The median number of stents inserted, maximum number of stents placed, and median time of retreatment were 2.4 (range: 1-4), 4, and 3.4 (range: 1-7), respectively. In total, 4/12 patients (33.3%) developed AEs that required endoscopic interventions (Clavien-Dindo Grade III).
CONCLUSIONS: EUS-BD with the placement of multiple trans-stenosis plastic stents is a safe, feasible, and well-tolerated alternative for the management of benign biliary stricture in patients with surgery-altered anatomy. Long-term follow-up is necessary to support our results.

Citation: Pizzicannella M, et al. EUS-guided biliary drainage for the management of benign biliary strictures in patients with altered anatomy: A single-center experience. EUS-guided biliary drainage for the management of benign biliary strictures in patients with altered anatomy: A single-center experience. 2020; 9:45-52. doi: 10.4103/eus.eus_55_19

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/31552913/
