PMID: 31556354
Title: Evaluation of hemodynamic impact of absorbable sutures in native arteriovenous fistulas: A retrospective study.

Abstract: One of the major causes of arteriovenous fistula failure is the venous stenosis due to aggressive neointimal hyperplasia. The aim of the study was to assess the arteriovenous fistula maturation comparing absorbable sutures and non-absorbable ones in native vessels. Surgeries performed during a period of 24 months by a single team of expert surgeons were evaluated. Surgeries that met the inclusion criteria, namely, age ⩾ 18 years and radio-cephalic arteriovenous fistula, were considered. According to type of suture, patients were classified as Max group (absorbable suture) and Prol group (non-absorbable). Data pertaining to 70 patients were collected; 51% were men and the mean age was 73 ± 12 years. In Max group, an increasing blood flow was observed during the first 4 weeks without post-operative complications. In Prol group, six patients had thrombosis that resulted in vascular access failure. After the first week, the duplex Doppler ultrasound of both groups showed a regular arteriovenous fistula maturation, with an increase of blood flow rate. Although pre-operative post-tourniquet mean vein diameters of Max group were not adequate, the mean vein diameter and mean blood flow rate increased after 4 weeks, respectively. On the contrary, in Prol group, mean vein diameters and blood flow rate decreased. The maturation of arteriovenous fistula and its functional performance were not altered by the type of suture (absorbable/non-absorbable). Absorbable sutures were associated with good results considering arteriovenous fistula maturation.

Citation: Occhionorelli S, et al. Evaluation of hemodynamic impact of absorbable sutures in native arteriovenous fistulas: A retrospective study. Evaluation of hemodynamic impact of absorbable sutures in native arteriovenous fistulas: A retrospective study. 2020; 43:58-61. doi: 10.1177/0391398819877420

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/31556354/
