PMID: 31563694
Title: Rescue Cerebral Revascularization in Patients with Progressive Steno-Occlusive Ischemia of the Anterior Intracranial Circulation.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Despite the failure of 2 randomized controlled trials assessing the utility of bypass for steno-occlusive cerebrovascular disease, a specific subset of patients with progressive and/or refractory symptoms may benefit from cerebral revascularization. This study assessed the efficacy and outcomes of bypass surgery for progressive and/or refractory steno-occlusive cerebrovascular disease.
METHODS: A retrospective database review was performed to identify patients who underwent bypass for progressive and/or refractory steno-occlusive disease of the internal carotid artery or middle cerebral artery over a 4-year period (July 2014-July 2018). Surgical and clinical outcomes were recorded.
RESULTS: Seventeen patients (average age 62 ± 11 years) underwent extracranial-intracranial bypass for refractory and/or progressive steno-occlusive disease of the internal carotid artery or middle cerebral artery. Thirteen patients presented with stroke, 3 presented with recurrent transient ischemic attacks, and 1 presented with progressive hemiparesis. All patients had preoperative perfusion imaging deficits. Average temporary clip time was 35 ± 8 minutes. An interposition graft was used in 7 patients. There was 3 ischemic and 3 hemorrhagic perioperative strokes (35%); all were minor or related to anticoagulation. Over an average of 10 ± 10 months of follow-up, there were no ischemic strokes in the bypass-dependent territories. Of 17 patients, 16 (78%) achieved a Glasgow Outcome Scale score ≥4, and 13 (85%) achieved a modified Rankin Scale score ≤2.
CONCLUSIONS: Bypass for steno-occlusive disease of the anterior intracranial circulation is a potentially effective treatment for patients with progressive and/or refractory ischemic symptoms, although the complication rate is significant. Optimal patient selection criteria and timing of surgery remain open questions.

Citation: Steinberg JA, et al. Rescue Cerebral Revascularization in Patients with Progressive Steno-Occlusive Ischemia of the Anterior Intracranial Circulation. Rescue Cerebral Revascularization in Patients with Progressive Steno-Occlusive Ischemia of the Anterior Intracranial Circulation. 2020; 133:e609-e618. doi: 10.1016/j.wneu.2019.09.102

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/31563694/
