PMID: 31593939
Title: Fetal Cardiac Intervention in Critical Aortic Stenosis with Severe Mitral Regurgitation, Severe Left Atrial Enlargement, and Restrictive Foramen Ovale.

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: To assess the intrauterine course and outcome of fetal cardiac intervention (FCI) in fetuses with critical aortic stenosis (CAS), severe mitral regurgitation (MR), severe left atrial dilatation (LAD), and restrictive foramen ovale (RFO) or intact atrial septum.
METHODS: All fetuses with a prenatal diagnosis of CAS, severe MR, severe LAD, and RFO were retrospectively collected in one tertiary center for fetal medicine over a period of 10 years. Video recordings, pre- and postnatal charts were reviewed for cardiac and extracardiac anomalies, intrauterine course, and postnatal outcome.
RESULTS: Nineteen fetuses with CAS, severe MR, severe LAD, and RFO were diagnosed in the study period. In 5 cases, FCI was not considered as the parents either opted for expectative management or for termination. In the remaining 14 fetuses, 21 FCI were performed: 14 balloon valvuloplasties, 2 atrioseptostomies, and 5 fetal atrial stent insertions. Seven of 14 fetuses (50%) had fetal hydrops, 5 of 14 fetuses (36%) presented with intact atrial septum. Procedure-related death occurred in 5 fetuses after aortic valvuloplasty or concomitant atrioseptostomy but in none after fetal atrial stenting. Due to progressive hydrops, two terminations of pregnancy were performed. Among the 7 live births, 3 died in the neonatal period. The remaining 4 received single ventricle palliation, 2 following fetal aortic valvuloplasty and 2 after fetal atrial stent insertion.
CONCLUSIONS: CAS with severe MR, severe LAD, and RFO has a high overall mortality even in cases undergoing intrauterine intervention. Parameters that accurately predict the intrauterine and postnatal outcome have yet to be defined.

Citation: Mallmann MR, et al. Fetal Cardiac Intervention in Critical Aortic Stenosis with Severe Mitral Regurgitation, Severe Left Atrial Enlargement, and Restrictive Foramen Ovale. Fetal Cardiac Intervention in Critical Aortic Stenosis with Severe Mitral Regurgitation, Severe Left Atrial Enlargement, and Restrictive Foramen Ovale. 2020; 47:440-447. doi: 10.1159/000502840

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/31593939/
