PMID: 31609096
Title: Distribution of pressure gradients along the left anterior descending artery in patients with angiographically normal arteries.

Abstract: OBJECTIVES: This study tested the hypothesis that there is no decline of coronary pressure from the proximal to the distal left anterior descending coronary artery (LAD) of humans and swine.
BACKGROUND: In the daily clinical practice, the fractional flow reserve (FFR) in the LAD is frequently lower than that in the other arteries in the presence of a similar degree of stenosis.
METHODS: Twenty-six patients with angiographically normal LAD were prospectively enrolled. The coronary pressure ratio (mean distal/proximal coronary pressures at hyperemia) was measured at five different positions: 12, 10, 7, and 5 cm distal from the LAD ostium, and at the ostium of the LAD. The coronary pressure measurement was further investigated in a swine model without atherosclerosis.
RESULTS: The coronary pressure ratio during maximum hyperemia gradually decreased in proportion to the distance from the ostium (average: 0.85 ± 0.06 at 12 cm distal to the ostium). This finding was confirmed in swine model. The degree of the coronary pressure decrease during maximum hyperemia was similar in patients with and without evidence of minor plaque on intravascular ultrasound, however it was strongly associated with the amount of myocardium mass in the territory of the LAD.
CONCLUSIONS: Intracoronary pressure gradually decreases in proportion to the distance from the ostium in the LAD of humans and swine, regardless of the presence of minor atherosclerotic plaques. The degradation degree of the coronary pressure ratio during maximum hyperemia is enlarged in the presence of larger amount of myocardium mass in the territory of the LAD.

Citation: Fukunaga M, et al. Distribution of pressure gradients along the left anterior descending artery in patients with angiographically normal arteries. Distribution of pressure gradients along the left anterior descending artery in patients with angiographically normal arteries. 2020; 96:E67-E74. doi: 10.1002/ccd.28544

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/31609096/
