PMID: 31609055
Title: Application of transcatheter valves for aortic valve replacement in pediatric patients: A case series.

Abstract: OBJECTIVES: To describe our initial experience with pediatric transcatheter aortic valve replacement.
BACKGROUND: Transcatheter aortic valve replacement (TAVR) has been approved and used to treat calcific aortic stenosis in adult patients. Select pediatric patients with congenital heart disease (CHD) who are poor candidates for conventional surgical aortic valve replacement can benefit from TAVR.
METHODS: A retrospective review was performed to identify and describe pediatric patients with CHD who underwent transcatheter or hybrid aortic valve replacement using a Melody Valve (Medtronic, Minneapolis, MN), or Sapien S3/XT valve (Edwards Life sciences LLC, Irvine, CA). Patients in whom transcatheter valves were implanted on cardiopulmonary bypass were included. Imaging data, procedural elements, and clinical follow-up data were collected to evaluate acute and short-term results.
RESULTS: A total of eight pediatric patients underwent treatment of aortic valvular disease using balloon expandable valves and delivery systems. Two patients had Melody valve implantation and six received a Sapien valve (one XT/five S3). In one patient, a Melody valve was placed surgically, failed, and was replaced with a Sapien valve 2 years later. Two patients were treated using a standard transfemoral route, four had the valve delivered on cardiopulmonary bypass via a median sternotomy, one was placed with a transapical approach, and one via a carotid cut down. Patients were followed for an average 16 months (range 1-208 weeks). There were no early or late deaths in this cohort. There were no embolic events, and all valves worked well in the immediate postoperative period. Both Melody implants developed moderate to severe regurgitation at 2 years and 4 years, respectively, and both required replacement at that time. One Sapien 3 valve developed a paravalvular leak that required reintervention within 6 months of implantation.
CONCLUSIONS: Transcatheter valves offer a reasonable alternative to traditional surgical aortic valve replacement in certain pediatric patients who are suboptimal surgical candidates. Hybrid approaches and valve delivery on cardiopulmonary bypass has been used in smaller patients. Long-term performance of these valves in young patients has not been studied.

Citation: Sinha S, et al. Application of transcatheter valves for aortic valve replacement in pediatric patients: A case series. Application of transcatheter valves for aortic valve replacement in pediatric patients: A case series. 2020; 95:253-261. doi: 10.1002/ccd.28505

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/31609055/
