PMID: 31629752
Title: First-in-Human Experience With Patient-Specific Computer Simulation of TAVR in Bicuspid Aortic Valve Morphology.

Abstract: OBJECTIVES: The aim of this study was to prospectively evaluate the clinical use of patient-specific computer simulation of transcatheter aortic valve replacement (TAVR) in bicuspid aortic valve (BAV) morphology.
BACKGROUND: Patient-specific computer simulation of TAVR in BAV may predict important clinical outcomes, such as paravalvular regurgitation and conduction disturbance.
METHODS: Between May 2018 and April 2019, all patients who were referred for TAVR who had BAV identified on work-up cardiac multidetector computed tomographic imaging prospectively underwent patient-specific computer simulation with a self-expanding transcatheter heart valve (THV) using TAVIguide technology.
RESULTS: Nine patients were included in the study. Sievers classification was type 0 in 2 patients and type 1 in 7 patients. The simulations altered the treatment strategy in 8 patients (89%). The simulations suggested moderate to severe paravalvular regurgitation in 3 patients, who were referred for consideration of surgery. The remaining 6 patients underwent TAVR with a self-expanding THV. In 5 of these patients (83%), THV size and/or implantation depth was altered to minimize paravalvular regurgitation and/or conduction disturbance. In 1 patient, simulations suggested significant conduction disturbance after TAVR, and a permanent pacemaker was implanted before the procedure. Following treatment, all 9 patients had no to mild paravalvular regurgitation. The patient who had a pre-procedure permanent pacemaker implanted became pacing dependent, with underlying third-degree atrioventricular block.
CONCLUSIONS: Patient-specific computer simulation of TAVR in BAV can be used to identify those patients where TAVR may be associated with unfavorable clinical outcomes. Patient-specific computer simulation may be useful to guide THV sizing and positioning for potential favorable clinical outcomes.

Citation: Dowling C, et al. First-in-Human Experience With Patient-Specific Computer Simulation of TAVR in Bicuspid Aortic Valve Morphology. First-in-Human Experience With Patient-Specific Computer Simulation of TAVR in Bicuspid Aortic Valve Morphology. 2020; 13:184-192. doi: 10.1016/j.jcin.2019.07.032

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/31629752/
