PMID: 31629851
Title: The Common Femoral Artery Bifurcation Lesions: Clinical Outcome of Simple Versus Complex Stenting Techniques - An Analysis Based on the TECCO Trial.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Common femoral artery (CFA) stenting appears as a promising alternative treatment to the open surgery for de novo CFA stenosis. The stenting of lesions just located at the CFA is simple, whereas stenting of CFA bifurcation lesions is more complex, and outcomes are still matter of debate. The aim of this study was to describe and to compare clinical outcomes of techniques used to treat simple over complex lesions for the stenting of CFA lesions.
MATERIALS/METHODS: From the French randomized controlled trial, TECCO, a total of 54 patients underwent stenting intervention and were enrolled in this study. Patients were excluded if they had CFA thrombosis, restenosis, and nonatheromatous lesions. Patients were classified by simple and complex lesions based on the type of lesion. The primary end point was the primary sustained clinical improvement.
RESULTS: Eighteen patients were included in the simple lesion group, and 36 patients, in the complex lesion group. Baseline characteristics of patients were comparable between the 2 groups. The technical success was 100% in the simple lesion group and 91.7% in the complex lesion group. There was no significant difference between the 2 groups, regarding the primary sustained clinical improvement. The primary patency rates at 24 months for simple and complex lesion groups were 86.3% and 79%, respectively (P = 0.66). Freedom from target lesion revascularization was of 93.3% and 82% in the simple and complex lesion group, respectively (P = 0.34).
CONCLUSIONS: The stenting technique for CFA bifurcation lesions is a safe and effective technique. More trials with a large number of patients are needed to define the optimal stenting technique.

Citation: Nasr B, et al. The Common Femoral Artery Bifurcation Lesions: Clinical Outcome of Simple Versus Complex Stenting Techniques - An Analysis Based on the TECCO Trial. The Common Femoral Artery Bifurcation Lesions: Clinical Outcome of Simple Versus Complex Stenting Techniques - An Analysis Based on the TECCO Trial. 2020; 64:2-10. doi: 10.1016/j.avsg.2019.10.031

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/31629851/
