PMID: 31635961
Title: A reliable method for renal volume measurement and its application in fenestrated endovascular aneurysm repair.

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: Renal volume has been shown to correlate with renal function. Renal volume and renal function both decline steadily in the sixth decade of life and beyond. We sought to assess (1) the inter-rater reliability for manually measuring renal volume using computed tomography and (2) change in renal volume over time as it relates to renal function in fenestrated endovascular aortic aneurysm repair (FEVAR).
METHODS: This study was conducted as part of a physician-sponsored investigational new device (#NCT01538056). First, 30 consecutive kidneys of preoperative FEVAR patients were independently measured by two raters using manual segmentation and three-dimensional modeling software. Renal volumes were calculated and compared. Intraclass correlation was calculated between the two observers. Second, renal volumes were then recorded for 85 patients undergoing FEVAR with follow-up out to 5 years. Demographic data, comorbidities, creatinine, glomerular filtration rate (GFR), renal artery stenosis or occlusion, and bilateral renal volume measurements were analyzed. Multivariate analysis was performed to delineate association of these variables with total renal volume (TRV).
RESULTS: The intraclass correlation coefficient for our renal volume measurements was 0.97 (95% confidence interval, 0.81-0.99), indicating excellent correlation. Renal volume was strongly correlated with GFR. Our multivariate analysis model predicts a 17.9 mL/min increase in GFR with each 20% increase in TRV. After adjustment for all other known correlates of renal function, renal volume remained as the only significant predictor of renal function.
CONCLUSIONS: Renal volume can be measured with high reliability using manual segmentation and computed tomography scans. In our baseline analysis, TRV was strongly correlated with renal function. These findings support the potential for renal volume as a surrogate for renal function.

Citation: Hurd JR, et al. A reliable method for renal volume measurement and its application in fenestrated endovascular aneurysm repair. A reliable method for renal volume measurement and its application in fenestrated endovascular aneurysm repair. 2020; 71:1515-1520. doi: 10.1016/j.jvs.2019.07.089

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/31635961/
