PMID: 31637956
Title: Provisional Stenting Using the Zilver PTX Drug-Eluting Stent After Drug-Coated Balloon Angioplasty: Initial Experience From the Double Drug Dose "3D" Study.

Abstract: Purpose: To explore the provisional use of a drug-eluting stent (DES) after suboptimal drug-coated balloon (DCB) angioplasty in complex, calcified femoropopliteal lesions. Materials and Methods: A prospective, single-center, investigator-initiated pilot study enrolled 15 patients (mean age 71.3 years; 9 men) with symptomatic stenosis (n=6) or occlusion (n=9) of the native superficial femoral and/or proximal popliteal arteries who experienced suboptimal DCB dilation despite postdilation. Lesion characteristics were evaluated with computed tomography angiography and duplex ultrasound confirmed by intravascular ultrasound. Follow-up included clinical and imaging evaluations as well as blood tests to monitor inflammatory markers. Endpoints included systemic inflammation, acute/chronic thrombosis, aneurysm formation, and mortality. Results: Provisional stenting was required for residual stenosis &gt;50% in 4 cases and flow-limiting dissection in 11. Provisional spot stenting was done using the Zilver PTX DES. Clinical improvement was observed in all cases. After 24-month follow-up all patients were alive and in good clinical condition. One- and 2-year primary patency rates were 93.3% and 92.9%, respectively; secondary patency was 100%. Restenosis required reintervention in 2 cases. No local or systemic complications or toxicity were observed due to the use of a double dose of paclitaxel. No significant increase in any inflammation marker was observed in the perioperative period, and no aneurysm formation was seen over 24 months of follow-up. Conclusion: Combined DCB plus DES therapy seems to be safe and correlated with high primary patency following suboptimal angioplasty. Larger studies are required to confirm the safety and efficacy of this approach.

Citation: Fanelli F, et al. Provisional Stenting Using the Zilver PTX Drug-Eluting Stent After Drug-Coated Balloon Angioplasty: Initial Experience From the Double Drug Dose "3D" Study. Provisional Stenting Using the Zilver PTX Drug-Eluting Stent After Drug-Coated Balloon Angioplasty: Initial Experience From the Double Drug Dose "3D" Study. 2020; 27:34-41. doi: 10.1177/1526602819884062

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/31637956/
