PMID: 31638343
Title: Venous access closure using a purse-string suture without heparin antagonism or additional compression after MitraClip implantation.

Abstract: OBJECTIVES: This observational study was designed to analyze the safety and feasibility of percutaneous skin closure using a purse-string suture (PSS) after MitraClip procedures.
METHODS: Forty-one consecutive patients with severe mitral regurgitation who underwent MitraClip implantation from February 2018 to January 2019 at our institution received a PSS after percutaneous mitral valve repair before withdrawal of the 24-French (Fr) sheath. Protamine was not administered after venous closure at procedure end. No compression therapy (e.g., compression bandage or pneumatic compression device) was used. Patients were on bed rest for 6 hrs prior to suture removal, which was accomplished 18-24 hrs after MitraClip implantation. We analyzed the occurrence of any vascular or thromboembolic complications during the hospital stay and until the 3-month follow-up.
RESULTS: The primary endpoint-any access-related major complication-did not occur in any patients. None of the patients revealed a pseudoaneurysm or an arteriovenous fistula, a thromboembolic complication, or local stenosis related to the PSS closure. The secondary endpoint- minor access-site vascular complications (hematoma)- was documented in six (14.6%) patients.
CONCLUSIONS: Venous access-site closure with a PSS without the need for protamine administration or compression therapy appears to be safe and feasible in patients undergoing MitraClip implantation with access via a 24-Fr sheath.

Citation: Akkaya E, et al. Venous access closure using a purse-string suture without heparin antagonism or additional compression after MitraClip implantation. Venous access closure using a purse-string suture without heparin antagonism or additional compression after MitraClip implantation. 2020; 96:179-186. doi: 10.1002/ccd.28534

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/31638343/
