PMID: 31669474
Title: Simultaneous Superficial Femoral Artery Angioplasty/Stent Plus Popliteal Distal Bypass for Limb Salvage.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Treatment of severe critical limb ischemia (CLI) due to superficial femoral artery (SFA) and below-the-knee (BTK) vessels' involvement could be compromised by the lack of a great saphenous vein (GSV) suitable in its entire length. The purpose of this study is to assess the efficacy of a hybrid endovascular and open lower limbs arterial reconstruction in these patients with multilevel, advanced CLI.
METHODS: From 2005 to 2019, we performed hybrid endovascular and surgical treatment for limb salvage in SFA-BTK CLI. This consisted of percutaneous transluminal angioplasty (PTA) with or without stenting of the SFA, along with distal origin vein graft bypass. Inclusion criteria were Rutherford category 5 or 6, lack of a suitable GSV, patency of the popliteal artery, steno-obstructive lesions of the SFA, lesions of the 3 crural vessels >5 cm in length each. The follow-up was performed with duplex scan surveillance of both the bypass graft and PTA sites.
RESULTS: The hybrid treatment could be performed in 34 patients. Fifty-six percent of the SFA steno-obstructive lesions were treated with simple PTA, except for the application of a bare metal stent in one patient (3%), while in all the SFA occlusions PTA was completed with covered stents (41%). Thirty-four popliteal-to-distal vein bypass grafts bypass grafts have been performed. There were no perioperative PTA or bypass graft failures. Clinical improvement was achieved in 26 (76%) patients. Overall, primary and secondary patency, limb salvage, and survival rates were 65%, 68%, 75%, and 75% at 5 years, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: A hybrid strategy in multilevel SFA-BTK CLI is a well-established approach. Additional studies are warranted to validate these results.

Citation: Barillà D, et al. Simultaneous Superficial Femoral Artery Angioplasty/Stent Plus Popliteal Distal Bypass for Limb Salvage. Simultaneous Superficial Femoral Artery Angioplasty/Stent Plus Popliteal Distal Bypass for Limb Salvage. 2020; 63:443-449. doi: 10.1016/j.avsg.2019.10.032

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/31669474/
