PMID: 31670292
Title: Laparoscopic hybrid pyloromyotomy for infantile hypertrophic pyloric stenosis: A simplified technique.

Abstract: INTRODUCTION: Laparoscopic pyloromyotomy (LP) for the treatment of infantile hypertrophic pyloric has advantage of smaller incisions, faster recovery, reduction in wound-related complications and better cosmesis. Various laparoscopic knives and spreaders have been used for LP, but they do not provide the depth and tissue perception as in open surgery. We describe the laparoscopic hybrid pyloromyotomy (LHP) which makes procedure simple and safe without the requirement of any special instrument.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: This retrospective and prospective comparative study was conducted over a period of 4.5 years in a tertiary teaching hospital in central India. All patients with infantile hypertrophic pyloric stenosis diagnosed on the basis of clinical history, examination and ultrasonography were included in the study. Retrospective data of three-port conventional LP (CLP) using monopolar diathermy hook for incision was used as control group against prospective data of 25 patients undergoing LHP. After a proper layout, LHP was done using one umbilical optical port, right paraumbilical grasper of holding the pyloric olive and an epigastric incision for hybrid pyloromyotomy using 11 no blade and blunt-tipped mosquito artery forceps.
RESULTS: Prospective group of LHP included 25 patients which were compared with a retrospective group of CLP consisting of 25 patients. On comparison of two groups, it was found that LHP reduces operative duration significantly. The outcome in terms of complications and recovery was comparable in two groups. None of the patients developed recurrence and required any redo surgery.
CONCLUSION: LHP is a simplified approach which is easy to learn and teach, improves safety and accuracy of the procedure.

Citation: Agrawal V, et al. Laparoscopic hybrid pyloromyotomy for infantile hypertrophic pyloric stenosis: A simplified technique. Laparoscopic hybrid pyloromyotomy for infantile hypertrophic pyloric stenosis: A simplified technique. 2020; 16:386-389. doi: 10.4103/jmas.JMAS_216_19

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/31670292/
