PMID: 31679094
Title: Risk of hemorrhage and stricture significantly increases in elderly patients with proton pump inhibitor (PPI)-resistant reflux esophagitis.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: To examine the clinical characteristics, including complications, of patients older than 75 years of age with proton pump inhibitor-resistant reflux esophagitis.
METHODS: Patients who were resistant to standard-dose proton pump inhibitors were enrolled in the present study. Eligible patients (n = 26) were divided into those who were older (n = 11) and younger (n = 15) than 75 years of age. Clinical characteristics including complications (hemorrhage and stricture), body mass index, the severity of reflux esophagitis, Helicobactor pylori infection, gastric mucosal atrophy, hiatal hernia, kyphosis, and the use of antithrombotic agents were examined. The efficacy of 20 mg vonoprazan for proton pump inhibitor-resistant reflux esophagitis was also investigated.
RESULTS: The severity of reflux esophagitis was significantly higher in the elderly group than in the non-elderly group. No other significant differences were observed between the groups. The proportion of patients with hemorrhage was significantly larger in the elderly group than in the non-elderly group. Similarly, the proportion of patients with stricture was significantly larger in the elderly group than in the non-elderly group. Nine out of 10 patients in the elderly group and all patients in the non-elderly group achieved healing after the 4-week administration of 20 mg vonoprazan. No significant differences were observed in healing rates between the groups.
CONCLUSION: Among patients with proton pump inhibitor-resistant reflux esophagitis, the rates of severe reflux esophagitis and complications (hemorrhage and/or stricture) were significantly higher in elderly patients than in non-elderly patients. Regardless of age, 20 mg vonoprazan was effective for proton pump inhibitor-resistant reflux esophagitis.

Citation: Takenouchi N, et al. Risk of hemorrhage and stricture significantly increases in elderly patients with proton pump inhibitor (PPI)-resistant reflux esophagitis. Risk of hemorrhage and stricture significantly increases in elderly patients with proton pump inhibitor (PPI)-resistant reflux esophagitis. 2020; 17:87-91. doi: 10.1007/s10388-019-00702-y

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/31679094/
