PMID: 31677201
Title: Long-term outcome of endoscopic ultrasound-guided pancreatic duct drainage using a fully covered self-expandable metal stent for pancreaticojejunal anastomosis stricture.

Abstract: BACKGROUND AND AIM: Endoscopic ultrasound-guided pancreatic duct drainage (EUS-PD) has been proposed for pancreatic duct obstruction after failure of endoscopic retrograde pancreatography. We evaluate the long-term outcomes of EUS-PD using a fully covered self-expandable metal stent (FCSEMS) for pancreaticojejunal anastomosis (PJA) strictures following Whipple procedures.
METHODS: Twenty-three patients with PJA strictures underwent EUS-PD according to the findings of EUS-guided pancreatogram and the passage of the guidewire through PJA stricture (complete vs partial stricture) after failure of endoscopic retrograde pancreatography. Technical and clinical success, adverse events (AEs), and long-term outcomes were assessed.
RESULTS: Technical and clinical success was achieved in all patients. The complete and partial strictures were 11 and 12, respectively. The direct transanastomotic and transmural plastic stenting in partial PJA stricture was successful in only three patients (13%). Therefore, 20 patients underwent EUS-guided transmural FCSEMS placement during the initial attempt. Early AEs, including abdominal pain (n = 3) and peripancreatic fluid collection (n = 1), occurred in four patients (17.4%). During the follow-up periods (median, 27.2 months; interquartile range [IQR], 18.7-40.6), five patients (21.7%) developed late AEs, including asymptomatic stent fracture at the gastric end (n = 3), asymptomatic stent migration (n = 1), and stent occlusion (n = 1). The total duration of stent placement was 27.2 months (IQR, 18.7-40.6), and the median number of stent revision was 2 (IQR, 1-2).
CONCLUSIONS: In terms of safety and efficacy, EUS-PD with an FCSEMS showed favorable success and acceptable AEs rate and durable long-term outcomes.

Citation: Oh D, et al. Long-term outcome of endoscopic ultrasound-guided pancreatic duct drainage using a fully covered self-expandable metal stent for pancreaticojejunal anastomosis stricture. Long-term outcome of endoscopic ultrasound-guided pancreatic duct drainage using a fully covered self-expandable metal stent for pancreaticojejunal anastomosis stricture. 2020; 35:994-1001. doi: 10.1111/jgh.14897

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/31677201/
