PMID: 31672102
Title: Endovascular Management of Neurofibromatosis Type I-Associated Vasculopathy: A Case Series and Brief Review of the Literature.

Abstract: PURPOSE: Neurofibromatosis type 1 (NF1) is an autosomal-dominant disorder found in approximately 1 of every 3000 individuals. Neurofibromatosis type 1 can have vascular manifestations including aneurysms, stenoses, and arteriovenous malformations. The purpose of this article is to describe the clinical manifestations of NF1 vasculopathy, discuss therapeutic options, and highlight endovascular therapies from our institutional experience.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: The radiology information system was searched for cases of NF1. Cases with vasculopathy managed with endovascular therapies were included. Demographics, clinical histories, procedural details, and outcomes were recorded. A review of the literature for the management strategies of NF1 vasculopathy was performed.
RESULTS: Two pediatric patients with NF1 were identified, both of whom presented with hypertension found to be secondary to renal artery stenosis. One of the patients also had infrarenal aortic narrowing. Both patients were successfully treated with balloon angioplasty, resulting in improved blood pressures. The review of the literature identified case series of pharmacologic, surgical, and endovascular therapies, although, endovascular therapies appear to be preferred due to lower morbidity and mortality.
CONCLUSIONS: NF1 vasculopathy is a rare condition that most often presents with hypertension due to renal artery stenosis. In these situations, endovascular management is the preferred approach.

Citation: Raborn J, et al. Endovascular Management of Neurofibromatosis Type I-Associated Vasculopathy: A Case Series and Brief Review of the Literature. Endovascular Management of Neurofibromatosis Type I-Associated Vasculopathy: A Case Series and Brief Review of the Literature. 2020; 54:182-190. doi: 10.1177/1538574419885257

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/31672102/
