PMID: 31679323
Title: Gender Differences in Pre- and Postoperative Health-Related Quality of Life Measures in Patients Who Have Had Decompression Surgery for Lumbar Spinal Stenosis.

Abstract: STUDY DESIGN: Retrospective chart audit.
PURPOSE: This study aimed to investigate the gender difference in pre- and postoperative health-related quality of life (HRQOL) in patients who have had decompression surgery for lumbar spinal stenosis (LSS).
OVERVIEW OF LITERATURE: Gender differences may contribute to variations in disease presentations and health outcomes. The influence of gender on pre- and postoperative HRQOL in spinal disorders remains unclear.
METHODS: We reviewed 125 patients (79 men and 46 women) who had lumbar spinous process splitting laminectomy (LSPSL) for LSS. We assessed the following clinical information: Japanese Orthopedic Association (JOA) score; numerical rating scale (NRS) for low back pain (LBP), leg pain, and leg numbness; Zurich Claudication Questionnaire; JOA Back Pain Evaluation Questionnaire; Roland- Morris Disability Questionnaire (RMDQ); and Short Form 8 (SF-8) as HRQOL. We compared the HRQOLs of men and women pre- and postoperatively.
RESULTS: Although the preoperative NRS results for LBP were significantly higher in women (p <0.05), there were no significant differences in clinical outcomes between men and women postoperatively. For HRQOL, the RMDQ scores were significantly worse in women preoperatively (p <0.05), but no significant differences were found postoperatively between men and women. Similarly, the SF-8 mental health score was also significantly lower in women preoperatively (p <0.05), but no significant differences were noted between the two groups postoperatively.
CONCLUSIONS: LSPSL greatly reduced LBP, leg pain, and leg numbness in both genders. There were limited differences in pain and several HRQOL questionnaire responses between men and women after surgery. We found that women had greater sensitivity to and/or lower tolerance for pain than men, which led to lower HRQOL mental health scores preoperatively.

Citation: Kobayashi Y, et al. Gender Differences in Pre- and Postoperative Health-Related Quality of Life Measures in Patients Who Have Had Decompression Surgery for Lumbar Spinal Stenosis. Gender Differences in Pre- and Postoperative Health-Related Quality of Life Measures in Patients Who Have Had Decompression Surgery for Lumbar Spinal Stenosis. 2020; 14:238-244. doi: 10.31616/asj.2019.0067

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/31679323/
