PMID: 31678820
Title: Ankle pulse pressure to diastole ratio as a novel non-invasive costless screening tool for subclinical atherosclerosis.

Abstract: Atherosclerosis develops gradually as a subclinical condition and eventually becomes clinically apparent as heart disease or stroke. The degree of decreased arterial compliance affects both pulse pressure (PP) and diastolic blood pressure (DBP). These relations would be clear in the distal periphery. We propose that the ankle PP/ankle DBP ratio (APPD) can uncover the ongoing subclinical vascular risk. Based on the elastic chamber theory, APPD = (Cs-Cd)/(Cd-C0) in which Cs, Cd, and C0 represent arterial compliance at systolic pressure, diastolic pressure, and zero-pressure. For a given ventricular ejection, the value of Cs-Cd (i.e. PP) positively differs in the same person from brachium to ankle based on the distance from the heart, degree of arterial stiffness, and the local arterial function. On the other hand, the decreased arterial compliance increases the speed of reflected pulse waves to the heart resulting in earlier ventricular ejection by which the value of Cd-C0 (i.e. DBP) decreases over the arterial tree. In the same person, studies of ankle-brachial blood pressure (BP) differences revealed that PP greatly differed from brachium to ankle while DBPs were of minimal change or almost equivalent. However, DBP would be lower in those with arterial stiffness compared to others of the same age. Accordingly, APPD increases as arterial compliance decreases. Moreover, decreased APPD after a certain limit would reflect either local arterial stenosis or a compromised left ventricular function. When we divided ankle PP by ankle DBP, we could control the diversity of ankle PP as being not related to the BP level and possibly fluctuates in the same person. Additionally, APPD will indicate the extra rapid reflected pulse wave given in decreased DBP. Since increased common carotid artery intima-media thickness (CIMT) is a well-established marker of atherosclerosis, we initially studied 115 subjects apparently free form vascular diseases and had not taken a drug that can affect BP on the day of the study, aged 40-60 years, without a history of stroke, coronary heart disease or peripheral vascular disease to evaluate the relation between APPD and CIMT. The association was statistically significant even after adjusting for age, sex and important covariates and the area under the receiver operating characteristic curve was 0.902 ± 0.031. Therefore, the potential applicability of APPD as a tool for subclinical atherosclerosis was greatly proven.

Citation: Nesnawy S, et al. Ankle pulse pressure to diastole ratio as a novel non-invasive costless screening tool for subclinical atherosclerosis. Ankle pulse pressure to diastole ratio as a novel non-invasive costless screening tool for subclinical atherosclerosis. 2020; 135:109449. doi: 10.1016/j.mehy.2019.109449

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/31678820/
