PMID: 31670477
Title: Association of cyclophilin A level and pulse pressure in predicting recurrence of cerebral infarction.

Abstract: Cyclophilin A (CypA), secreted from vascular smooth muscle cells and inflammatory cells in response to oxidative stress, promotes vascular atherosclerosis and development of carotid stenosis. Increased concentration of plasma CypA in acute cerebral infarction was demonstrated clinically. The primary aim of this study was to investigate the prognostic impact between CypA level and outcome in patients with acute ischemic stroke. Admission serum CypA concentrations were detected in 66 acute cerebral infarction patients and in 52 healthy individuals. Inflammatory biomarkers, including high-sensitivity C-reactive protein, adhesion molecules, interleukins, and matrix-metalloproteases, were also assessed. We also examined the relationship between plasma biomarkers, blood pressure (BP), pulse pressure, the carotid artery velocity, the prognostic assessment with modified Rankin scale, and stroke recurrence. Plasma CypA concentration was higher on the first day of hospitalization in the high BP stroke group than in normal BP stroke group, which was statistically significant, which was observed even in the third month and sixth month follow-up outpatient periods. For stroke recurrence prediction, there was an important association between the higher (>60) pulse pressure on the seventh day of hospitalization and CypA level on the third month and sixth month follow-up outpatient periods. Our study revealed higher circulating serum levels of CypA in the hypertensive stroke group than in the non-hypertensive stroke group. We expect that elevated plasma CypA level and raised pulse pressure during hospitalization to become valuable biomarkers in predicting stroke recurrence in the sixth month assessment of acute cerebral infarction.

Citation: Chang CS, et al. Association of cyclophilin A level and pulse pressure in predicting recurrence of cerebral infarction. Association of cyclophilin A level and pulse pressure in predicting recurrence of cerebral infarction. 2020; 36:122-128. doi: 10.1002/kjm2.12143

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/31670477/
