PMID: 31686278
Title: Comparison of the geometry of the left ventricle outflow tract, the aortic root and the ascending aorta in patients with severe tricuspid aortic stenosis versus healthy controls.

Abstract: The purpose of this study was to assess by multislice computed tomography (MSCT) imaging geometry of the ascending aorta, the aortic root, the aortic annulus and the left ventricle outflow tract (LVOT) in aortic stenosis (AS) patients, to compare aortic root morphology in patients with AS with healthy controls and to evaluate sex differences. Fifty patients with severe AS and 50 age- and gender-matched controls who underwent MSCT were included in the study. The dimensions of the LVOT, the aortic annulus, the aortic root, the ascending aorta, and the volume of the aortic root were retrospectively assessed and a comparison was made between patients with severe tricuspid AS and controls. Patients with tricuspid AS in comparison with controls had smaller dimensions of the sinus of Valsalva resulting in reduction of the aortic root volume, whereas the dimensions of the other structures were comparable. MSCT revealed larger annular, LVOT and the sinus of Valsalva dimensions and the aortic root volume in men than women. Men with AS differed from healthy men only in regard to the dimensions of the sinus of Valsalva, while women showed significant differences also in the LVOT, and the aortic annulus. MSCT showed accurately aortic root remodeling in tricuspid AS patients and indentified sex-dependent differences. Women with tricuspid AS differ from healthy women more than men did. A high degree of the variability in the aortic root dimensions requires further careful research.

Citation: Nieznańska M, et al. Comparison of the geometry of the left ventricle outflow tract, the aortic root and the ascending aorta in patients with severe tricuspid aortic stenosis versus healthy controls. Comparison of the geometry of the left ventricle outflow tract, the aortic root and the ascending aorta in patients with severe tricuspid aortic stenosis versus healthy controls. 2020; 36:357-366. doi: 10.1007/s10554-019-01715-5

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/31686278/
