PMID: 31699362
Title: Exposure to Ionizing Radiation in Patients Undergoing Transfemoral Transcatheter Aortic Valve Implantation.

Abstract: Transcatheter aortic valve implantation (TAVI) is currently becoming an alternative to surgical valve replacement for patients at low risk, a population that is likely to experience an increase in the radiation-induced cancer risk following TAVI. We aimed to evaluate the overall exposure to ionizing radiation in patients who underwent transfemoral TAVI, including the procedure itself as well as the procedures performed in the preintervention work-up and the post-TAVI interventions. All patients who underwent transfemoral TAVI for symptomatic aortic stenosis in our center over a 26 months period were included. Dosimetric indicators from preprocedural coronary angiography and computed tomography (CT), the TAVI procedure, and any postprocedural interventions (electrophysiology study and/or pacemaker implantation) were collected and converted into an effective dose. A total of 119 transfemoral TAVI procedures were included. The mean cumulative effective dose (ED) was 37.3 mSv. Three irradiating procedures were necessary for 84 patients (71% of the population, i.e., coronary angiography, CT scan and the TAVI procedure itself), whereas 30 patients (25%) required a fourth procedure, and 5 required a fifth (4%). The majority of the dose was from the CT, while only 11% of the dose derived from the TAVI procedure itself. In conclusion, overall exposure to ionizing radiation for patients who underwent transfemoral TAVI seems acceptable, and the majority of the overall ED comes from the CT scan.

Citation: Villecourt A, et al. Exposure to Ionizing Radiation in Patients Undergoing Transfemoral Transcatheter Aortic Valve Implantation. Exposure to Ionizing Radiation in Patients Undergoing Transfemoral Transcatheter Aortic Valve Implantation. 2020; 125:114-119. doi: 10.1016/j.amjcard.2019.09.028

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/31699362/
