PMID: 31705984
Title: Early Carotid Endarterectomy for Symptomatic Stenosis of Internal Carotid Artery in Patients Affected by Transient Ischemic Attack or Minor-to-Moderate Ischemic Acute Stroke: A Single-Center Experience.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: In the setting of carotid transient ischemic attack (TIA) or minor/moderate ischemic stroke, early surgical endarterectomy (CEA) seems to decrease the number of recurrences. The aim of the present study was to report a single-center experience with early surgical carotid revascularization in patients affected by TIA and minor/moderate ischemic acute stroke.
METHODS: A retrospective data collection was carried out on all consecutive patients surgically treated for an extracranial internal carotid artery (ICA) hemodynamic NASCET stenosis in the Vascular Unit of Foch Hospital, in Suresnes (France) between January 2011 and July 2016. All patients undergoing ICA endarterectomy for symptomatic carotid stenosis (SCS) within 48 hours and 14 days after the acute neurologic onset were included in the present study. Outcomes were evaluated by a prospective follow-up. Primary outcomes were the rate of postoperative ipsilateral stroke and myocardial infarction (MI) and the death/stroke/MI at 30-day and at the long-term follow-up. Secondary outcomes were local and systemic complications' rate. Outcomes were stratified according to NIHSS score and comorbidities, and a univariate analysis and multivariate analysis were performed to define any correlation between preoperative data and postoperative outcomes.
RESULTS: A total of 249 consecutive patients (45.4%, 113 symptomatic vs. 54.6%, 136 asymptomatic) underwent CEA for hemodynamically significant ICA stenosis at our institution. According to inclusion criteria, 72 patients affected by SCS (27.7% women vs. 72.3% men; median age 71.9 years, range: 42-89; median preoperative NIHSS score 3, range 1-17) were enrolled in the present study. Median delay for surgery was 4 days (range: 2-14). No in-hospital stroke, nor myocardial infarction nor death were detected during in-hospital post-operative period. The combined death/stroke/MI rate was 0% and 5.5 % at 30-days at 6 years follow-up respectively. In-hospital NIHSS score improved post-operatively of more than 2 points (range 0-15) in 47.2% of cases. A total of 10 patients (13.8%) experienced a local complication (hematoma, permanent or regressive nerve injury). No systemic complications (renal/respiratory failure, urinary tract infection, pneumoniae) were registered. At long-term follow-up a total of four patients (5.5%) died and six patients (8.3%) were lost. The stratification of outcomes according to NIHSS status, sex, comorbidities and preoperative surgical procedure did not show any statistical relation neither at 30 days nor at the long term-follow up. Diabetes was statistically correlated to a higher rate of complication at the long-term follow-up (P 0.049).
CONCLUSIONS: In properly selected patients affected by minor/moderate ischemic acute stroke and TIA early carotid endarterectomy can be performed without any worsening of neurological status.

Citation: Borghese O, et al. Early Carotid Endarterectomy for Symptomatic Stenosis of Internal Carotid Artery in Patients Affected by Transient Ischemic Attack or Minor-to-Moderate Ischemic Acute Stroke: A Single-Center Experience. Early Carotid Endarterectomy for Symptomatic Stenosis of Internal Carotid Artery in Patients Affected by Transient Ischemic Attack or Minor-to-Moderate Ischemic Acute Stroke: A Single-Center Experience. 2020; 65:232-239. doi: 10.1016/j.avsg.2019.10.088

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/31705984/
