PMID: 31714681
Title: Impact of chronic thrombocytopenia on in-hospital outcomes and healthcare resource utilization after transcatheter aortic valve replacement.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: There is little data on the impact of chronic thrombocytopenia (CTP) on outcomes after transcatheter aortic valve repair (TAVR). Most studies are from single centers and mostly focused on postprocedure thrombocytopenia.
OBJECTIVES: This study sought to report on the impact of CTP (>1 year) on in-hospital outcomes and healthcare resource utilization after TAVR.
METHODS: From the National Inpatient Sample (NIS) between 2012 and 2015, we identified patients with CTP who underwent TAVR. A 1:1 propensity-matched cohort was created to examine in-hospital outcomes in patients with and without CTP. The primary outcome was in-hospital mortality. Secondary outcomes included postprocedure complications, length of stay, total cost, and discharge disposition.
RESULTS: A matched pair of 4,300 patients with and without CTP were identified. Patients with CTP had higher in-hospital mortality as compared to no CTP patients (6.0 vs. 3.3%, p-value .007), increased postprocedure hemorrhage, platelet and blood transfusion, vascular complications, postop sepsis, and acute kidney injury. With regards to resource utilization, CTP patients had a longer length of stay, higher total cost and were more likely to be discharged to a facility (34.1 vs. 27.6%) other than home (All, p-value <.001). Subanalysis, however, revealed this difference in resource utilization was seen when patients developed postprocedure complications.
CONCLUSION: This study demonstrated higher risk of in-hospital mortality, perioperative complications, and healthcare resource utilization in patients with baseline CTP undergoing TAVR. Further studies are required to investigate ways to improve the management of these patients.

Citation: Fugar S, et al. Impact of chronic thrombocytopenia on in-hospital outcomes and healthcare resource utilization after transcatheter aortic valve replacement. Impact of chronic thrombocytopenia on in-hospital outcomes and healthcare resource utilization after transcatheter aortic valve replacement. 2020; 96:413-421. doi: 10.1002/ccd.28519

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/31714681/
