PMID: 31713292
Title: Evaluation of lipoprotein-associated phospholipase A2, serum amyloid A, and fibrinogen as diagnostic biomarkers for patients with acute cerebral infarction.

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: The aim of this study was to explore the clinical values of combined detection of lipoprotein-associated phospholipase A2 (Lp-PLA2), serum amyloid A (SAA), and plasma fibrinogen (FIB) in the diagnosis of acute cerebral infarction (ACI).
METHODS: A case-control study including 100 hospitalized patients with ACI and 47 healthy controls was carried out. The level of Lp-PLA2, SAA, and FIB was detected, respectively, and their clinical values were analyzed. Carotid lesions and neurological impairment were also analyzed in each patient.
RESULTS: The level of Lp-PLA2, SAA, and FIB in the ACI group was significantly higher than that of the controls, and the three biomarkers showed a significant positive correlation and were considered as risk factors for ACI. The area under the curve (AUC) for Lp-PLA2, SAA, and FIB was 0.858, 0.743, and 0.672, respectively. When three biomarkers were used in combination, the AUC was 0.879. Compared with the other groups, the levels of three biomarkers in bilateral carotid plaque ACI group were all significantly higher. In addition, the level of Lp-PLA2 and SAA in ACI patients with severe neurological impairment was also significantly higher than that of the mild-to-moderate group.
CONCLUSION: Lp-PLA2 combined with SAA and FIB had a high clinical value for rapid diagnosis and prediction of ACI. These biomarkers were also significantly associated with the formation of bilateral carotid atherosclerotic plaques and the severe neurological impairment in ACI patients.

Citation: Tao L, et al. Evaluation of lipoprotein-associated phospholipase A2, serum amyloid A, and fibrinogen as diagnostic biomarkers for patients with acute cerebral infarction. Evaluation of lipoprotein-associated phospholipase A2, serum amyloid A, and fibrinogen as diagnostic biomarkers for patients with acute cerebral infarction. 2020; 34:e23084. doi: 10.1002/jcla.23084

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/31713292/
