PMID: 31723086
Title: Network Medicine: A Clinical Approach for Precision Medicine and Personalized Therapy in Coronary Heart Disease.

Abstract: Early identification of coronary atherosclerotic pathogenic mechanisms is useful for predicting the risk of coronary heart disease (CHD) and future cardiac events. Epigenome changes may clarify a significant fraction of this "missing hereditability", thus offering novel potential biomarkers for prevention and care of CHD. The rapidly growing disciplines of systems biology and network science are now poised to meet the fields of precision medicine and personalized therapy. Network medicine integrates standard clinical recording and non-invasive, advanced cardiac imaging tools with epigenetics into deep learning for in-depth CHD molecular phenotyping. This approach could potentially explore developing novel drugs from natural compounds (i.e. polyphenols, folic acid) and repurposing current drugs, such as statins and metformin. Several clinical trials have exploited epigenetic tags and epigenetic sensitive drugs both in primary and secondary prevention. Due to their stability in plasma and easiness of detection, many ongoing clinical trials are focused on the evaluation of circulating miRNAs (e.g. miR-8059 and miR-320a) in blood, in association with imaging parameters such as coronary calcifications and stenosis degree detected by coronary computed tomography angiography (CCTA), or functional parameters provided by FFR/CT and PET/CT. Although epigenetic modifications have also been prioritized through network based approaches, the whole set of molecular interactions (interactome) in CHD is still under investigation for primary prevention strategies.

Citation: Infante T, et al. Network Medicine: A Clinical Approach for Precision Medicine and Personalized Therapy in Coronary Heart Disease. Network Medicine: A Clinical Approach for Precision Medicine and Personalized Therapy in Coronary Heart Disease. 2020; 27:279-302. doi: 10.5551/jat.52407

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/31723086/
