PMID: 31734117
Title: Intermodality feature fusion combining unenhanced computed tomography and ferumoxytol-enhanced magnetic resonance angiography for patient-specific vascular mapping in renal impairment.

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: The purpose of this study was to establish the feasibility of fusing complementary, high-contrast features from unenhanced computed tomography (CT) and ferumoxytol-enhanced magnetic resonance angiography (FE-MRA) for preprocedural vascular mapping in patients with renal impairment.
METHODS: In this Institutional Review Board-approved and Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act-compliant study, 15 consecutive patients underwent both FE-MRA and unenhanced CT scanning, and the complementary high-contrast features from both modalities were fused to form an integrated, multifeature image. Source images from CT and MRA were segmented and registered. To validate the accuracy, precision, and concordance of fused images to source images, unambiguous landmarks, such as wires from implantable medical devices or indwelling catheters, were marked on three-dimensional (3D) models of the respective modalities, followed by rigid co-registration, interactive fusion, and fine adjustment. We then compared the positional offsets using pacing wires or catheters in the source FE-MRA (defined as points of interest [POIs]) and fused images (n = 5 patients, n = 247 points). Points within 3D image space were referenced to the respective modalities: x (right-left), y (anterior-posterior), and z (cranial-caudal). The respective 3D orthogonal reference axes from both image sets were aligned, such that with perfect registration, a given point would have the same (x, y, z) component values in both sets. The 3D offsets (Δx mm, Δy mm, Δz mm) for each of the corresponding POIs represent nonconcordance between the source FE-MRA and fused images. The offsets were compared using concordance correlation coefficients. Interobserver agreement was assessed using intraclass correlation coefficients and Bland-Altman analyses.
RESULTS: Thirteen patients (aged 76 ± 12 years; seven female) with aortic valve stenosis and chronic kidney disease and two patients with thoracoabdominal vascular aneurysms and chronic kidney disease underwent FE-MRA for preprocedural vascular assessment, and unenhanced CT examinations were available in all patients. No ferumoxytol-related adverse events occurred. There were 247 matched POIs evaluated on the source FE-MRA and fused images. In patients with implantable medical devices, the mean offsets in spatial position were 0.31 ± 0.51 mm (ρ = 0.99; C<sub>b</sub> = 1; 95% confidence interval [CI], 0.99-0.99) for Δx, 0.27 ± 0.69 mm (ρ = 0.99; C<sub>b</sub> = 0.99; 95% CI, 0.99-0.99) for Δy, and 0.20 ± 0.59 mm (ρ = 1; C<sub>b</sub> = 1; 95% CI, 0.99-1.00) for Δz. Interobserver agreement was excellent (intraclass correlation coefficient, &gt;0.99). The mean difference in offset between readers was 1.5 mm.
CONCLUSIONS: Accurate 3D feature fusion is feasible, combining luminal information from FE-MRA with vessel wall information on unenhanced CT. This framework holds promise for combining the complementary strengths of magnetic resonance imaging and CT to generate information-rich, multifeature composite vascular images while avoiding the respective risks and limitations of both modalities.

Citation: Yoshida T, et al. Intermodality feature fusion combining unenhanced computed tomography and ferumoxytol-enhanced magnetic resonance angiography for patient-specific vascular mapping in renal impairment. Intermodality feature fusion combining unenhanced computed tomography and ferumoxytol-enhanced magnetic resonance angiography for patient-specific vascular mapping in renal impairment. 2020; 71:1674-1684. doi: 10.1016/j.jvs.2019.08.240

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/31734117/
