PMID: 31738082
Title: Coronary artery to aortic luminal attenuation ratio in coronary CT angiography for the diagnosis of haemodynamically significant coronary artery stenosis.

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: This study aimed to assess and compare the diagnostic performance of the coronary artery to aortic luminal attenuation ratio (CAR), transluminal attenuation gradient (TAG), and corrected coronary opacification (CCO) difference on coronary CT angiography (cCTA) for detecting haemodynamically significant coronary artery stenosis.
METHODS: 33 patients who underwent cCTA, gated SPECT myocardial perfusion imaging (MPI), and invasive coronary angiography within 3 months were included in this retrospective study. The degree of coronary stenosis on cCTA was visually assessed in all patients. Additionally, CAR, TAG, and CCO difference were analyzed and calculated in all patients. Haemodynamically significant coronary stenosis was defined as a vessel with ≥50% luminal stenosis on invasive coronary angiography and an associated abnormal perfusion defect on MPI in the same territory. Diagnostic performance was assessed on a per-vessel basis by the area under the receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve (AUC).
RESULTS: Among 99 vessels, 12 were excluded and the remaining 87 were analyzed. 17 (19.5%) vessels were determined as haemodynamically significant coronary artery stenosis. On ROC analysis, the AUC was 0.71 for cCTA, 0.80 for CAR, 0.61 for TAG, 0.74 for CCO, 0.87 for combined CAR and cCTA, 0.77 for combined TAG and cCTA, and 0.75 for combined CCO and cCTA. The AUC for combined CAR and cCTA was significantly greater compared with cCTA alone (p &lt; 0.01).
CONCLUSION: Non-invasive CAR derived from 64-detector row CT was feasible and might be helpful for the detection of haemodynamically significant coronary artery stenosis. Still, further investigations such as intra- and inter-reader correlation, evaluation of larger numbers in different settings, and time efficiency are required for applying CAR in various situations.
ADVANCES IN KNOWLEDGE: CAR could be used as novel noninvasive technique to detect haemodynamically significant coronary artery stenosis.

Citation: Misaka T, et al. Coronary artery to aortic luminal attenuation ratio in coronary CT angiography for the diagnosis of haemodynamically significant coronary artery stenosis. Coronary artery to aortic luminal attenuation ratio in coronary CT angiography for the diagnosis of haemodynamically significant coronary artery stenosis. 2020; 93:20190003. doi: 10.1259/bjr.20190003

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/31738082/
