PMID: 31742885
Title: Ultrasound guided vascular access site management and left ventricular pacing are associated with improved outcomes in contemporary transcatheter aortic valve replacement: Insights from the OxTAVI registry.

Abstract: OBJECTIVES: To identify clinical and procedural practice predictors of avoidable complications during transcatheter aortic valve replacement (TAVR).
BACKGROUND: TAVR is evolving as a viable strategy for treatment of aortic stenosis (AS). Vascular complications, major bleeding, or pericardial tamponade may be influenced by procedural practice.
METHODS: The Oxford TAVR (OxTAVI) prospective registry was retrospectively analyzed to identify predictors of avoidable procedural complications in a contemporary cohort of transfemoral TAVR between January 2015 and September 2018. The primary endpoint was defined as a hierarchic composite of in-hospital mortality, pericardial effusion/cardiac tamponade, major bleeding, and vascular access complications. Individual components of the primary endpoint have been analyzed separately.
RESULTS: Five-hundred-twenty-nine patients underwent transfemoral TAVR using contemporary techniques during the study period and were enrolled in the OxTAVI registry. Female sex and high frailty were associated with a higher risk of death, major bleeding, vascular complication or pericardial tamponade. The use of ultrasound (US) guidance for vascular access management was independently associated with a reduced composite primary endpoint (OR = 0.35, CI:0.14-0.86, p = .02) after adjustment for clinical confounders, largely driven by a threefold reduction in vascular access complication (OR = 0.29, CI:0.15-0.55, p < .001). Performing rapid pacing via the left ventricle guidewire (LV-GW) was associated with a significant decrease in the risk of cardiac tamponade/pericardial effusion (OR = 0.19, CI:0.05-0.66, p = .009).
CONCLUSION: US-guided vascular access management and rapid pacing via the LV-GW are important determinants of reduced procedural complications during TAVR.

Citation: Kotronias RA, et al. Ultrasound guided vascular access site management and left ventricular pacing are associated with improved outcomes in contemporary transcatheter aortic valve replacement: Insights from the OxTAVI registry. Ultrasound guided vascular access site management and left ventricular pacing are associated with improved outcomes in contemporary transcatheter aortic valve replacement: Insights from the OxTAVI registry. 2020; 96:432-439. doi: 10.1002/ccd.28578

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/31742885/
