PMID: 31768866
Title: From Nissen Fundoplication to Roux-en-Y Gastric Bypass to Treat Both GERD and Morbid Obesity.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD) is common in obese individuals in around 30%. While fundoplication is the treatment of choice in non-obese individuals with GERD resistant to medical treatment, the laparoscopic Roux-en-Y gastric bypass (LRYGB) is the most effective option in the setting of morbid obesity to treat at the same time both GERD and obesity.
METHODS: We present the case of a 31-year-old woman with a BMI of 37 kg/m2 who underwent an open Nissen fundoplication in 2010 and surgical revision in 2012 with redo of the Nissen fundoplication. She consulted for dysphagia and obesity complicated by invalidating arthrosis. A barium swallow showed esophageal dilatation and cardial stenosis. Manometry revealed incomplete waves and high pressure at the lower esophageal sphincter. We decided to convert the Nissen fundoplication to Roux-en-Y gastric bypass (RYGB).
RESULTS: In this video, we show how to revise Nissen fundoplication to RYGB. The intervention starts by complete dissection of the gastric valve and the hiatal region from right to left. Then, a short gastric pouch is created taking care to exclude the gastric fundus that is also partially resected. We perform a hand-sewn gastro-jejunal anastomosis slightly larger than for conventional bypass. A RYGB with 50-cm bilio-pancreatic and 150-cm alimentary limb is then performed.
CONCLUSIONS: Conversion of Nissen fundoplication to RYGB allows treatment of dysphagia, which may represent a complication of the fundoplication, and is effective for management obesity and GERD. In this video we show important technical steps of this procedure.

Citation: Petrucciani N, et al. From Nissen Fundoplication to Roux-en-Y Gastric Bypass to Treat Both GERD and Morbid Obesity. From Nissen Fundoplication to Roux-en-Y Gastric Bypass to Treat Both GERD and Morbid Obesity. 2020; 30:790-792. doi: 10.1007/s11695-019-04271-y

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/31768866/
