PMID: 31760672
Title: De Winter syndrome may be an early electrocardiogram pattern of acute myocardial infarction, two cases report.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: De Winter syndrome is an electrocardiogram (ECG) pattern related to acute occlusion of the anterior descending artery. The incidence rate of De Winter syndrome is rare, but still requires much attention from clinicians.
METHODS: Two patients who finnaly diagnosed with De Winter syndrome were included in our study.
RESULTS: A 55-year-old male farmer, who was previously healthy, came to the emergency room due to sudden pain in the precordial area for 6 hours, accompanied with back pain and sweating. The second ECG revealed De Winter syndrome. Emergency coronary angiography was taken, which showed a severe atrioventricular block; diffuse stenosis in the proximal and middle segments of the left anterior descending branch, with 90% stenosis in the severest region. Percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) of the left anterior descending artery was performed. A 70-year-old man with a history of hypertension arrived at the Emergency Department with chest pain for 3 hours. The first ECG was performed, which was contacted with de winter syndrome. The second ECG demonstrated acute anterior Myocardial infarction. Emergency coronary angiography showed approximately 95% stenosis at the junction of the proximal and middle segments. PCI of the proximal and middle segments of the left anterior descending artery was performed.
CONCLUSION: De Winter syndrome is a type of acute coronary syndrome, which may be an early ECG pattern in the development of acute ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction. Therefore, once De Winter syndrome is observed on the ECG, acute coronary syndrome, especially acute anterior descending occlusion should not be ignored.

Citation: Zhang L, et al. De Winter syndrome may be an early electrocardiogram pattern of acute myocardial infarction, two cases report. De Winter syndrome may be an early electrocardiogram pattern of acute myocardial infarction, two cases report. 2020; 25:e12729. doi: 10.1111/anec.12729

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/31760672/
