PMID: 31770793
Title: [Intubation Systems in Lacrimal Drainage Surgery - a Current Overview].

Abstract: The development of microendoscopes in lacrimal drainage surgery has led to the introduction of novel surgical procedures that maintain transcanicular anatomy, including a variety of lacrimal drainage intubation systems. Depending on the location and extent of the lacrimal duct stenosis, bicanaliculoanular, monocanalicular, monocanaliculonasal, bicanalicular, and bicanaliculonasal intubation techniques and systems, as well as a combination of these, may be used. For isolated intubation of the puncta lacrimalia, perforated punctum plugs may be used, while pure monocanalicular intubation can be performed using a Mini-Monoka. The monocanaliculonasal intubation systems include the Monoka (Wide Collarette type), Monoka of Fayet (Crawford type), the self-threading Monoka (Ritleng type), the Masterka, and the LacriJet for the ophthalmic surgeon. The bicanaliculonasal intubation systems include various BIKA systems, the Ritleng intubation system, the Crawford intubation system, and the FCI Nunchaku. Indications for both monocanaliculonasal and bicanaliculonasal intubation systems are obstructions, stenoses or lacerations of all kinds, as well as obstructions and stenoses after opening or after a DCR. For a conjunctivodacryocystorhinostomy (CDCR), the classical Lester Jones Tube, Metaireau Tubes, and StopLoss Jones Tube may be used. Although the study situation is ambiguous and therefore lacrimal drainage intubation is not considered mandatory, most ophthalmic surgeons do not forego intubation - despite the higher costs and slightly more protracted surgery. The surgeons' selection of the intubation system depends on the chosen form of intubation, costs and personal preferences and experience.

Citation: Rokohl AC, et al. [Intubation Systems in Lacrimal Drainage Surgery - a Current Overview]. [Intubation Systems in Lacrimal Drainage Surgery - a Current Overview]. 2020; 237:20-28. doi: 10.1055/a-0992-9966

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/31770793/
