PMID: 31784051
Title: Meta-Analysis of Transcatheter Aortic Valve Implantation Versus Surgical Aortic Valve Replacement in Patients With Low Surgical Risk.

Abstract: Transcatheter aortic valve implantation (TAVI) is the current standard of care for patients with severe aortic stenosis who are at high risk for surgery. However, several recent studies have demonstrated the comparable safety and efficacy of TAVI in low-risk patients as well. We sought to pool the existing data to further assert its comparability. MEDLINE, Cochrane, and Embase databases were evaluated for relevant articles published from January 2005 to June 2019. Studies comparing outcomes of TAVI versus surgical aortic valve replacement in patients who are at low risk for surgery were included. Twelve studies (5 randomized controlled trials and 7 observational studies) totaling 27,956 patients were included. Follow-up ranged from 3 months to 5 years. Short-term all-cause mortality, short-term, and 1-year cardiac mortality were significantly lower in the TAVI group. One-year all-cause mortality, short-term, and 1-year stroke and myocardial infarction were similar in both groups. Rate of acute kidney injury and new-onset atrial fibrillation were lower in the TAVI group, whereas permanent pacemaker implantation and major vascular complications were higher in the TAVI group. Subgroup analysis of randomized controlled trials showed significantly lower 1-year all-cause mortality in the TAVI group. In conclusion, in severe aortic stenosis patients at low surgical risk, TAVI when compared with surgical aortic valve replacement, demonstrated a lower rate of short-term all-cause mortality, short-term, and 1-year cardiac mortality and similar in terms of 1-year all-cause mortality. TAVI is emerging as a safe and efficacious alternative for low surgical risk patients.

Citation: Vipparthy SC, et al. Meta-Analysis of Transcatheter Aortic Valve Implantation Versus Surgical Aortic Valve Replacement in Patients With Low Surgical Risk. Meta-Analysis of Transcatheter Aortic Valve Implantation Versus Surgical Aortic Valve Replacement in Patients With Low Surgical Risk. 2020; 125:459-468. doi: 10.1016/j.amjcard.2019.10.036

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/31784051/
