PMID: 31781913
Title: Cerebrospinal fluid alterations following endoscopic third ventriculostomy with choroid plexus cauterization: a retrospective laboratory analysis of two tertiary care centers.

Abstract: PURPOSE: This study sought to determine the previously undescribed cytologic and metabolic alterations that accompany endoscopic third ventriculostomy with choroid plexus cauterization (ETV/CPC).
METHODS: Cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) samples were collected from infant patients with hydrocephalus at the time of index ETV/CPC and again at each reintervention for persistent hydrocephalus. Basic CSF parameters, including glucose, protein, and cell counts, were documented. A multivariable regression model, incorporating known predictors of ETV/CPC outcome, was constructed for each parameter to inform time-dependent normative values.
RESULTS: A total of 187 infants were treated via ETV/CPC for hydrocephalus; initial laboratory values were available for 164 patients. Etiology of hydrocephalus included myelomeningocele (53, 32%), intraventricular hemorrhage of prematurity (43, 26%), aqueductal stenosis (24, 15%), and others (44, 27%). CSF parameters did not differ significantly with age or etiology. Glucose levels initially drop below population average (36 to 32 mg/dL) post-operatively before slowly rising to normal levels (42 mg/dL) by 3 months. Dramatically elevated protein levels post-ETV/CPC (baseline of 59 mg/dL up to roughly 200 mg/dL at 1 month) also normalized over 3 months. No significant changes were appreciated in WBC. RBC counts were very elevated following ETV/CPC and quickly declined over the subsequent month.
CONCLUSION: CSF glucose and protein deviate significantly from normal ranges following ETV/CPC before normalizing over 3 months. High RBC values immediately post-ETV/CPC decline rapidly. Age at time of procedure and etiology have little influence on common clinical CSF laboratory parameters. Of note, the retrospective study design necessitates ETV/CPC failure, which could introduce bias in the results.

Citation: Dewan MC, et al. Cerebrospinal fluid alterations following endoscopic third ventriculostomy with choroid plexus cauterization: a retrospective laboratory analysis of two tertiary care centers. Cerebrospinal fluid alterations following endoscopic third ventriculostomy with choroid plexus cauterization: a retrospective laboratory analysis of two tertiary care centers. 2020; 36:1017-1024. doi: 10.1007/s00381-019-04415-6

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/31781913/
