PMID: 31806423
Title: Preoperative psychological factors affecting surgical satisfaction of elderly patients with lumbar spinal stenosis.

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: The objective of this observational study was to investigate the effects of preoperative psychological factors on short-term patient satisfaction with surgery in elderly patients with lumbar spinal stenosis (LSS).
METHODS: Surgery was performed on 90 elderly patients with clinically and radiologically defined LSS: mean age at surgery, 73 years; 46 men and 44 women. Patients completed questionnaires before surgery and 1 year postoperatively. They used a self-administered the Roland Morris Disability Questionnaire (RDQ), the Japanese Orthopaedic Association Back Pain Questionnaire (JOABPEQ), MOS 36-Item Short-Form Health Survey (SF-36), and satisfaction for surgery (VAS) were completed. At baseline, psychological factors were assessed using the Self-Rating Questionnaire for Depression (SRQ-D), Hospital Anxiety and Depression scale (HADS), Pain Catastrophizing Scale (PCS), Pain Anxiety Symptoms Scale-20, and Brief Scale for Psychiatric Problems in Orthopaedic Patients (BS-POP). At follow-up, patient satisfaction was evaluated using 2 items: (1) satisfaction with surgery and (2) Would you undergo the same surgery again?.
RESULTS: Satisfaction item 1 correlated negatively with the VAS for low back pain, leg pain, numbness, JOABPEQ social life disturbance score, SF-36 physical function score, and HADS anxiety score (p < 0.05). Satisfaction 2 correlated negatively with age at surgery, VAS of leg pain, PCS magnification score, and BS-POP score (p < 0.05). Multiple regression analysis showed significant associations between satisfaction 1 and SF-36 physical function and HADS anxiety scores, and between satisfaction 2 and PCS magnification score (p < 0.05).
STATISTICAL ANALYSIS: The preoperative factors independently associated with surgical satisfaction were analyzed utilizing Speaman's rank correlation coefficient and multiple regression analysis.
CONCLUSION: Physical function and anxiety were identified as preoperative factors that affected patient satisfaction with surgery. Preoperative assessment of psychological factors and interventions for anxiety may help improve patient satisfaction after surgery for LSS.

Citation: Kitano Cp T, et al. Preoperative psychological factors affecting surgical satisfaction of elderly patients with lumbar spinal stenosis. Preoperative psychological factors affecting surgical satisfaction of elderly patients with lumbar spinal stenosis. 2020; 25:751-756. doi: 10.1016/j.jos.2019.10.005

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/31806423/
