PMID: 31833720
Title: Surgical quality, cancer control and functional preservation: introducing a novel trifecta for robot-assisted partial nephrectomy.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: In order to improve standard reporting of outcomes after partial nephrectomy, different "trifecta" systems have been conceived. The subjective assessment of the included parameters and the unreliability for off-clamp procedures limited their reproducibility; their role in predicting functional and oncologic outcomes has never been assessed. We propose a new trifecta, based on standardized parameters, that summarizes PN outcomes regardless the clamping technique used and predicts main clinical outcomes.
METHODS: A retrospective analysis of a multicenter, multi-national dataset of patients with non-metastatic cT1-2 renal masses undergoing Robot-assisted partial nephrectomy was performed. Baseline demographic, clinical, pathologic and perioperative data were collected. Trifecta was defined as the coexistence of negative margins, no Clavien-Dindo ≥3 complications and ≤30% postoperative estimated glomerular filtration rate reduction. Univariable and multivariable regression analyses identified predictors of trifecta achievement. Kaplan-Meier method assessed differences in oncological outcomes between patients achieving trifecta or not. Univariable and multivariable Cox regression analysis identified predictors of newly onset chronic kidney disease stage ≥IIIa, recurrence-free and overall survival.
RESULTS: Overall, 1492 patients achieved trifecta. This cohort displayed significantly lower incidence of newly onset IIIa-V chronic kidney disease stages (all P<0.001), higher recurrence-free (P=0.009) and overall (P=0.014) survival probabilities. Patients achieving trifecta had a 65% reduced risk of developing newly onset stage IIIb-V Chronic Kidney Disease and a 55% reduced risk of overall mortality. Heterogeneity of surgical technique is a limitation.
CONCLUSIONS: This novel reproducible trifecta is based on standardized parameters and is an independent predictor of severe chronic kidney disease development and mortality.

Citation: Brassetti A, et al. Surgical quality, cancer control and functional preservation: introducing a novel trifecta for robot-assisted partial nephrectomy. Surgical quality, cancer control and functional preservation: introducing a novel trifecta for robot-assisted partial nephrectomy. 2020; 72:82-90. doi: 10.23736/S0393-2249.19.03570-7

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/31833720/
