PMID: 31836540
Title: Ca2+/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II is essential in hyperacute pressure overload.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Activation of Ca2+/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II (CaMKII) is established as a central intracellular trigger for various cardiac pathologies such as hypertrophy, heart failure or arrhythmias in animals and humans suggesting CaMKII as a promising target protein for future medical treatments. However, the physiological role of CaMKII is scarcely well defined.
AIM & METHODS: To investigate the role of CaMKII in hyperacute pressure overload, we evaluated the effects of pressure overload induced by transverse aortic constriction (TAC) on survival, cardiac function, protein expression and excitation-contraction coupling (ECC) in female WT littermate vs. AC3-I mice 2 days after TAC (2d post TAC). AC3-I mice express the CaMKII inhibitor autocamtide-3 related inhibitory peptide (AiP) under the control of the α-myosin heavy chain promotor in the heart.
RESULTS: CaMKII activation is significantly increased in WT TAC vs. sham mice 2d post TAC. Interestingly, survival is significantly reduced in AC3-I animals within the first five days after TAC compared to WT TAC littermates, while systolic cardiac function is markedly reduced in AC3-I TAC vs. AC3-I sham mice, but preserved in WT TAC vs. WT sham mice. Proteins regulating ECC such as ryanodine receptors (RyR2) and phospholamban (PLB) are hypophosphorylated at their CaMKII phosphorylation site in AC3-I TAC mice, but hyperphosphorylated in WT TAC mice compared to controls. In isolated cardiomyocytes fractional shortening is significantly impaired in AC3-I compared to WT mice 2d post TAC, and CaMKII incubation with AiP mimics the AC3-I phenotype in cardiomyocytes from WT TAC mice in vitro. In summary, this suggests cardiac dysfunction due to CaMKII inhibition as a potential cause of increased mortality in AC3-I TAC mice. However, proarrhythmic spontaneous Ca2+ release events (SCR) appear less frequent in cardiomyocytes from AC3-I TAC mice than in WT TAC mice.
CONCLUSIONS: Our data indicate that excessive CaMKII inhibition as present in AC3-I transgenic mice leads to an impaired adaptation of ECC to hyperacute pressure overload resulting in diminished cardiac contractility and increased death. Thus, our data suggest that in pressure overload the activation of CaMKII is a pivotal, but previously unknown part of hyperacute stress physiology in the heart, while CaMKII inhibition, albeit potentially antiarrhythmic, can be detrimental. This should be taken into account for future studies with CaMKII inhibitors as therapeutic agents.

Citation: Baier MJ, et al. Ca2+/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II is essential in hyperacute pressure overload. Ca2+/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II is essential in hyperacute pressure overload. 2020; 138:212-221. doi: 10.1016/j.yjmcc.2019.12.002

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/31836540/
