PMID: 31831318
Title: Three-dimensional morphological analysis of cervical foraminal stenosis using dynamic flexion-extension computed tomography images.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Morphological features of foraminal stenosis in cervical spondylotic radiculopathy and the adequate extent of facet resection in posterior cervical foraminotomy remain uncertain. Herein, we evaluated quantitatively foraminal widths in cervical spondylotic radiculopathy on dynamic flexion-extension computed tomography using a novel three-dimensional analysis method and determined the extent of facet resection in posterior cervical foraminotomy.
METHODS: Seventeen patients undergoing posterior cervical foraminotomy for cervical spondylotic radiculopathy were evaluated. A neuroforamen three-dimensional model was built from preoperative images of flexion-extension computed tomography myelography, and an ordinary cervical spine coordinate system and an original neuroforaminal coordinate system, were established. In the neuroforaminal coordinate system, minimum areas perpendicular to the long axis by the slices from inlet to outlet of neuroforamen and narrowest foraminal width in a slice of minimum area were measured. The location of the narrowest region from inlet of the foramen was calculated. Ratios of minimum and sufficient facet resection were obtained from the location of the narrowest region in the neuroforaminal coordinate system.
RESULTS: The narrowest foraminal widths (flexion/extension) in the cervical spine coordinate system and the neuroforaminal coordinate system were 2.9/2.3 and 2.6/1.9 mm, respectively. The mean values of the location of the narrowest region (flexion/extension) were 0.27/0.22 and 0.50/0.45 mm, respectively, and the narrowest region in the neuroforaminal coordinate system was located on the outer side than in the cervical spine coordinate system (p < 0.001). The ratios of minimum and sufficient facet resection were 23 ± 8% and 32 ± 9%, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: The narrowest regions both in flexion and extension are located at the middle of the foramen based on the neuroforaminal coordinate system. Ordinary evaluation of axial computed tomography images likely underestimates the extent of facet resection, whereas certain extent of facet resection does not exceed 50% in cases with single-level cervical spondylotic radiculopathy.
STUDY DESIGN: A retrospective case control study.

Citation: Mizouchi T, et al. Three-dimensional morphological analysis of cervical foraminal stenosis using dynamic flexion-extension computed tomography images. Three-dimensional morphological analysis of cervical foraminal stenosis using dynamic flexion-extension computed tomography images. 2020; 25:805-811. doi: 10.1016/j.jos.2019.11.002

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/31831318/
