PMID: 31835989
Title: Intraoperative Flow Study Predicted the Postoperative Pulmonary Artery Pressure in the Bidirectional Glenn Operation.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: The aim of this study was to evaluate the predictability of postoperative pulmonary artery pressure (PAP) using intraoperative flow study in patients undergoing bidirectional Glenn operation.
METHODS: Patients who underwent Glenn operation under cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB) were included in the study. During the operation, after the completion of additional procedures under CPB, an intraoperative flow study was performed prior to Glenn anastomosis. After the completion of bidirectional Glenn, the patient was separated from the CPB and PAP was measured. The relationship between this pressure and flow study measurement was analyzed.
RESULTS: Nine patients who underwent bidirectional Glenn operation with additional procedures under CPB between July 2018 and January 2019 were included in the study. The median PAP was 9 mm Hg (interquartile range [IQR]: 7-10 mm Hg) in the flow study and 10 mm Hg (IQR: 8-11 mm Hg) after CPB, and the median difference between these pressures was 1 mm Hg (IQR: 1-3 mm Hg). There was a strong correlation between these two measurements (r = 0.732; P = .025).
CONCLUSION: The results of this study show that PAP after the Glenn procedure can be estimated using an intraoperative flow study. We believe that this method may be useful in intraoperative decision-making for Glenn operation in single ventricular patients who require extensive pulmonary artery (PA) reconstruction due to limited PA development, branch PA stenosis, or nonconfluent PAs. Also, this method can be used as a sort of intraoperative pulmonary resistance reversibility study in patients with high preoperative pulmonary vascular resistance due to surgically correctable pulmonary venous hypertension.

Citation: Korun O, et al. Intraoperative Flow Study Predicted the Postoperative Pulmonary Artery Pressure in the Bidirectional Glenn Operation. Intraoperative Flow Study Predicted the Postoperative Pulmonary Artery Pressure in the Bidirectional Glenn Operation. 2020; 11:29-33. doi: 10.1177/2150135119884918

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/31835989/
