PMID: 31846823
Title: Laryngeal sequelae secondary to surgical treatment for recurrent respiratory papillomatosis in children.

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: to describe the frequency and predictive factors associated with laryngeal scarring caused by surgical treatment of recurrent respiratory papillomatosis (RRP) in children.
INTRODUCTION: RRP is an important cause of hoarseness and respiratory obstruction in children. The current standard of care for RRP is the systematic and repetitive surgical interventions. The repetitive surgeries may increase the risk of sequelae. A larger number of surgeries, the surgical technique used, and disease severity are related to an increased risk of scarring.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: A retrospective, descriptive review of the medical charts of patients with RRP younger than 18 years was conducted. Between 2014 and 2017, 79 patients were identified; five patients were excluded. Demographic and clinical data were recorded and analyzed. The patients were divided into two groups, one with and the other without surgical sequelae, for comparison to identify sequela-associated factors.
RESULTS: 75 patients, 40 (53.3%) male, were analyzed. Age at symptom onset ranged from 2 months to 13 years. Median age at the time of diagnosis was 42 months. Overall, 44% presented with disseminated disease. A median of nine (range, 1 to 86) surgeries were performed in each patient with a median of two (range, 0.6 to 10) of the average number of surgeries per year per patient. 29 patients (38.7%) had laryngeal sequelae. When comparing the patients with and without sequelae, statistically significant differences were found in the variables of dissemination during the course of the disease, overall number of surgeries and mean number of surgeries per year, history and number of previous surgeries at an outside institution, urgent surgeries, and CO2 laser use. Patients who underwent more than 10 surgeries or who had a history of previous surgeries at an outside institution had a higher frequency of laryngeal scarring in multivariate analysis.
CONCLUSION: Scarring secondary to surgical treatment for RRP is common. Surgery-related variables seem to be predisposing factors. A greater number of surgeries and surgeries performed at less specialized centers are strongly related to this complication. Future studies with a larger sample size are necessary to determine whether other factors are involved.

Citation: Scatolini ML, et al. Laryngeal sequelae secondary to surgical treatment for recurrent respiratory papillomatosis in children. Laryngeal sequelae secondary to surgical treatment for recurrent respiratory papillomatosis in children. 2020; 130:109815. doi: 10.1016/j.ijporl.2019.109815

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/31846823/
