PMID: 31858202
Title: Different CMR Imaging Modalities for Native and Patch-Repaired Right Ventricular Outflow Tract Sizing: Impact on Percutaneous Pulmonary Valve Replacement Planning.

Abstract: Percutaneous pulmonary valve replacement (PPVI) in native or patched right ventricular outflow tract (RVOT) has proven to be feasible. The procedure is highly dependent on the size of the RVOT. Several methods exist to evaluate the size of the RVOT by cardiovascular magnetic resonance (CMR). We evaluated different CMR modalities for measuring RVOT diameters. Thirty-one consecutive patients with native or patched RVOT were retrospectively evaluated. CMR was part of follow-up of patients with corrected Tetralogy of Fallot or pulmonary stenosis with significant pulmonary regurgitation (PR). CMR included 3D-SSFP whole-heart in systole, diastole, and contrast-enhanced MR angiography (ceMRA). Diameters of the RVOT were assessed by the three sequences. Additionally, in patients who underwent cardiac catheterization (n = 11) for PPVI, vessel diameters assessed by cine-angiography were compared to CMR. Systolic diameters of RVOT were significantly larger compared to the diameters taken in diastole and ceMRA (median difference 5.0 mm and 3.8 mm). Diastolic and ceMRA diameters did not differ significantly. CMR diameters taken in systole showed no statistical difference to systolic diameters taken by cine-angiography, while diastolic and ceMRA diameters were significantly smaller. PPVI was feasible to a maximal CMR diameter of 31 mm measured by SSFP whole-heart sequence in systole. Absolute diameters of native RVOT differ depending on the CMR sequence and timing of acquisition (systolic vs diastolic gating). Diameters taken during heart catheterization by cine-angiography best correlate to systolic CMR values. Data may help to select RVOTs suitable for PPVI.

Citation: Ferrari I, et al. Different CMR Imaging Modalities for Native and Patch-Repaired Right Ventricular Outflow Tract Sizing: Impact on Percutaneous Pulmonary Valve Replacement Planning. Different CMR Imaging Modalities for Native and Patch-Repaired Right Ventricular Outflow Tract Sizing: Impact on Percutaneous Pulmonary Valve Replacement Planning. 2020; 41:382-388. doi: 10.1007/s00246-019-02270-5

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/31858202/
