PMID: 31854121
Title: Anti-Adhesive, Platelet Gathering Effects of c-RGD Modified Poly(p-dioxanone-co-l-Phe) Electrospun Membrane and Its Comprehensive Application in Intestinal Anastomosis.

Abstract: Intestinal resection and anastomosis are performed in over a million people with various bowel diseases annually. Excessive fibrosis and anastomotic site leakage are the main complications of anastomosis surgery, despite great improvements in operative technique and equipment in recent years. In this study, cRGD modified poly(p-dioxanone-co-l-Phe) (PDPA) membranes are designed and applied in intestinal anastomosis to simultaneously solve the two aforementioned complications. cRGD is modified onto PDPA membranes through both physical absorption and π-π accumulation between d-Phe of cRGD and l-Phe of PDPA. Although cRGD modification enhanced the biocompatibility of PDPA membranes, cRGD modified PDPA membrane suppresses fibroblast proliferation both in vitro and in vivo as a result of degradation and subsequent release of fibroblast suppressive l-Phe from PDPA. Meanwhile, platelets are entrapped by cRGD modified PDPA membranes through the specific binding of cRGD and platelet GP<sub>IIbIIIa</sub> . cRGD modified PDPA membranes are applied in rat intestinal anastomosis, and both adhesion and stenosis are successfully prevented at anastomotic sites. At the same time, bursting pressure, which represents healing intensity at anastomotic sites, is promoted. The gathering and activation of platelets on PDPA membranes induce secretion of autologous PDGF and VEGF to facilitate angiogenesis and subsequent healing of anastomotic sites.

Citation: Wang B, et al. Anti-Adhesive, Platelet Gathering Effects of c-RGD Modified Poly(p-dioxanone-co-l-Phe) Electrospun Membrane and Its Comprehensive Application in Intestinal Anastomosis. Anti-Adhesive, Platelet Gathering Effects of c-RGD Modified Poly(p-dioxanone-co-l-Phe) Electrospun Membrane and Its Comprehensive Application in Intestinal Anastomosis. 2020; 20:e1900344. doi: 10.1002/mabi.201900344

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/31854121/
