PMID: 31866200
Title: Simultaneous Angioplasty and Mechanical Thrombectomy in Tandem Carotid Occlusions. Incidence of Reocclusions and Prognostic Predictors.

Abstract: OBJECTIVES: The best revascularization technique for tandem carotid occlusions is not clearly defined. The primary objective of this study is to describe our technical and clinical results, analyzing the main predictors of functional independence. The secondary objective is the analysis of stent reocclusion rate.
METHODS: A single-center series of 250 mechanical thrombectomies in the anterior circulation was studied. A subsequent analysis of 40 carotid occlusions was performed. The demographics, etiology, angiographic results, antithrombotic drugs, and 3-month follow-up were registered. A bivariate analysis was performed to establish the association of the study variables with major clinical complications (death, symptomatic hemorrhagic transformation and early recurrence) and the functional prognosis. In addition, the relationship between the preprocedure antiaggregation regimen and the reocclusions was studied, as well as its clinical impact. Independent predictive factors were studied using a multivariate logistic regression model.
RESULTS: Complete recanalization was achieved in 30 cases (75%). Simultaneous stent placement was decided in 32 cases (80%). Functional independence was reached in 19 cases (47.5%), and 3 (7.5%) died at 3 months. Seven major complications were reported (17.5%). In patients with satisfactory revascularization where a carotid stent was used, 9 reocclusions (28.1%) were detected during the follow-up, 2 of them symptomatic. The only factor related independently with functional independence was the administration of single antiaggregation (odds ratio = .31; 95% confidence interval .002-.595; P = .021).
CONCLUSIONS: Urgent endovascular treatment of tandem carotid occlusions has shown to be effective and safe in our series. The administration of single antiaggregation is a predictor of functional independence. In patients treated with carotid stent, the reocclusion rate is high, but generally asymptomatic.

Citation: Hernández-Fernández F, et al. Simultaneous Angioplasty and Mechanical Thrombectomy in Tandem Carotid Occlusions. Incidence of Reocclusions and Prognostic Predictors. Simultaneous Angioplasty and Mechanical Thrombectomy in Tandem Carotid Occlusions. Incidence of Reocclusions and Prognostic Predictors. 2020; 29:104578. doi: 10.1016/j.jstrokecerebrovasdis.2019.104578

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/31866200/
