PMID: 31874159
Title: Outcomes of delayed endoscopic management for esophageal soft food impactions.

Abstract: BACKGROUND AND AIMS: Food impactions are a common reason for emergent upper endoscopy. Current guidelines call for urgent upper endoscopy (within 24 hours) for food impactions without complete esophageal obstruction and emergent endoscopy (within 6 hours) for those with complete esophageal obstruction. Multiple adverse events can arise from esophageal foreign bodies. Cases with longer delays from symptom onset to presentation have been associated with higher rates of surgical intervention. However, data on esophageal soft food impactions are scant. We set out to determine differences in outcomes for food impactions undergoing intervention within 12 hours versus over 12 hours of symptom onset.
METHODS: A retrospective review of medical records was conducted to identify patients who presented to our hospital with an esophageal soft food impaction and underwent an EGD between January 2010 and January 2018. Patients were divided into 2 groups based on the timing from symptom onset to EGD. An EGD within 12 hours was considered an early intervention and over 12 hours was considered a delayed intervention. Patients who had ingested bones or hard objects were not included. Primary outcomes studied were rates of aspiration, admission, local esophageal adverse events, and 30-day all-cause mortality.
RESULTS: We identified 110 patients with a soft food impaction who underwent an EGD. Forty- two patients had an early intervention and 68 a delayed intervention. There were no differences in basic demographics and comorbidities. Additionally, there were no differences in rates of local esophageal adverse events, aspiration, admission, or 30-day mortality. Multivariate analysis revealed endoscopic accessory use was associated with increased odds of local esophageal adverse events (odds ratio, 6.37; P = .01).
CONCLUSIONS: The overall rates of serious adverse events in esophageal soft food impactions are low. Delayed intervention is not associated with increased adverse events or 30-day mortality compared with early intervention. However, accessory use is associated with higher adverse event rates.

Citation: Krill T, et al. Outcomes of delayed endoscopic management for esophageal soft food impactions. Outcomes of delayed endoscopic management for esophageal soft food impactions. 2020; 91:806-812. doi: 10.1016/j.gie.2019.12.020

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/31874159/
