PMID: 31883880
Title: "Watch" Shaped Buccal Mucosa Graft for Simultaneous Correction of Severe Chordee and Urethroplasty as a One-Stage Repair of Scrotal Hypospadias.

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: Scrotal hypospadias still presents a challenge for reconstructive urologists. We present a novel and 1-stage technique of using a specially shaped buccal mucosa graft for simultaneous ventral tunica grafting and urethroplasty for severe hypospadias repair.
METHODS: A 14-month old boy underwent repair of scrotal hypospadias with severe chordee. Penile straightening is achieved by division of short urethral plate combined with ventral grafting. Urethral reconstruction is done by combined buccal mucosa graft and longitudinal dorsal penile skin flap. Buccal mucosa graft is harvested and designed in a special "watch" shape, with the spherical part in the middle and 2 rectangular parts on both sides. The tunica albuginea is opened ventrally for penile straightening and grafted to the spherical part of the "watch-shaped" graft with "U-shape" stitches. The rectangular parts are fixed to the tip of the glans distally and native urethral meatus proximally creating new urethral plate. A longitudinal dorsal skin flap is harvested, button-holed ventrally and joined with the urethral plate. Penile skin reconstruction is performed using available penile skin.
RESULTS: In period between July 2014 and December 2018, this technique is performed in 35 patients (aged from 10 to 22 months) with scrotal hypospadias. In the follow-up, ranged from 10 to 63 months (mean 29 months), satisfactory results were achieved in 30 boys (86%). Urethral fistula in 3 and meatal stenosis in 2 cases were successfully treated by minor revision and temporary meatal dilatation, respectively. Good result in curvature repair was obtained in all cases based on vacuum device checking and parents' reports.
CONCLUSION: Repair of scrotal hypospadias associated with severe ventral curvature is usually done as a 2-stage procedure. A "watch" shaped buccal mucosa graft for simultaneous curvature correction and urethroplasty is a viable and reliable option for single stage repair of scrotal hypospadias with severe chordee.

Citation: Djordjevic M, et al. "Watch" Shaped Buccal Mucosa Graft for Simultaneous Correction of Severe Chordee and Urethroplasty as a One-Stage Repair of Scrotal Hypospadias. "Watch" Shaped Buccal Mucosa Graft for Simultaneous Correction of Severe Chordee and Urethroplasty as a One-Stage Repair of Scrotal Hypospadias. 2020; 137:205. doi: 10.1016/j.urology.2019.12.016

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/31883880/
