PMID: 31884249
Title: Tensor-cut: A tensor-based graph-cut blood vessel segmentation method and its application to renal artery segmentation.

Abstract: Blood vessel segmentation plays a fundamental role in many computer-aided diagnosis (CAD) systems, such as coronary artery stenosis quantification, cerebral aneurysm quantification, and retinal vascular tree analysis. Fine blood vessel segmentation can help build a more accurate computer-aided diagnosis system and help physicians gain a better understanding of vascular structures. The purpose of this article is to develop a blood vessel segmentation method that can improve segmentation accuracy in tiny blood vessels. In this work, we propose a tensor-based graph-cut method for blood vessel segmentation. With our method, each voxel can be modeled by a second-order tensor, allowing the capture of the intensity information and the geometric information for building a more accurate model for blood vessel segmentation. We compared our proposed method's accuracy to several state-of-the-art blood vessel segmentation algorithms and performed experiments on both simulated and clinical CT datasets. Both experiments showed that our method achieved better state-of-the-art results than the competing techniques. The mean centerline overlap ratio of our proposed method is 84% on clinical CT data. Our proposed blood vessel segmentation method outperformed other state-of-the-art methods by 10% on clinical CT data. Tiny blood vessels in clinical CT data with a 1-mm radius can be extracted using the proposed technique. The experiments on a clinical dataset showed that the proposed method significantly improved the segmentation accuracy in tiny blood vessels.

Citation: Wang C, et al. Tensor-cut: A tensor-based graph-cut blood vessel segmentation method and its application to renal artery segmentation. Tensor-cut: A tensor-based graph-cut blood vessel segmentation method and its application to renal artery segmentation. 2020; 60:101623. doi: 10.1016/j.media.2019.101623

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/31884249/
