PMID: 31893986
Title: MRI Vessel Wall Enhancement and Other Imaging Biomarkers in Pediatric Focal Cerebral Arteriopathy-Inflammatory Subtype.

Abstract: Background and Purpose- Focal cerebral arteriopathy-inflammatory type (FCA-i) is a common cause of pediatric arterial ischemic stroke characterized angiographically by unifocal and unilateral stenosis/irregularity of the large anterior circulation arteries with a presumed inflammatory cause. Arterial vessel wall enhancement (VWE) on vessel wall magnetic resonance imaging is a potential biomarker of inflammation that may improve diagnosis, guide treatment, and predict outcomes in patients with FCA-i. We hypothesized that patients with FCA-i with more severe or extensive VWE would have worse arteriopathy, larger infarcts, worse clinical outcome, and increased risk for infarct progression/recurrence. Methods- Pediatric patients with arterial ischemic stroke, classified as FCA-i, and who underwent vessel wall imaging were retrospectively identified at our institution. Clinical data were reviewed and the Pediatric Stroke Outcome Measure at 1 year was determined as the primary clinical end point. Neuroimaging studies were assessed for infarct size, arteriopathy severity (Focal Cerebral Arteriopathy Severity Score), and VWE. Results- Nine cases of FCA-i with vessel wall imaging were evaluated, and there was a strong correlation between clinical outcome at 1-year with initial infarct volume (Spearman correlation coefficient rho=0.84; P&lt;0.01) and arteriopathy severity (Focal Cerebral Arteriopathy Severity Score; rho=0.85; P&lt;0.01). Patients with infarct progression/recurrence had worse Focal Cerebral Arteriopathy Severity Score at presentation compared with those without progression/recurrence (median [IQR]; 9.0 [8.0-11.8] and 5.0 [4.0-7.0], respectively; P&lt;0.05). On the contrary, measures of VWE were not correlated with arteriopathy severity, infarct size, clinical outcome, or risk of infarct progression/recurrence. Moreover, not all patients with FCA-i demonstrated VWE. Conclusions- VWE may not be a reliable biomarker for the diagnosis or assessment of FCA-i, and future work is needed to assess the utility of vessel wall imaging in pediatric arterial ischemic stroke and FCA-i.

Citation: Perez FA, et al. MRI Vessel Wall Enhancement and Other Imaging Biomarkers in Pediatric Focal Cerebral Arteriopathy-Inflammatory Subtype. MRI Vessel Wall Enhancement and Other Imaging Biomarkers in Pediatric Focal Cerebral Arteriopathy-Inflammatory Subtype. 2020; 51:853-859. doi: 10.1161/STROKEAHA.119.027917

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/31893986/
