PMID: 31895797
Title: Efficacy and safety of percutaneous endoscopic decompression via transforaminal and interlaminar approaches for lumbar spine stenosis: Protocol for a systematic review and meta-analysis.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Lumbar spinal stenosis (LSS) is a common and frequently-occurring disease in the elderly. Percutaneous endoscopic decompression (PED) has become the first choice for the treatment of LSS because of its small wound, mild pain and rapid recovery. The surgical approaches are mainly divided into percutaneous interlaminar approach and transforaminal approach. However, these two surgical approaches have their own advantages, disadvantages and indications. Hence, the present study aims to synthesize the available direct and indirect evidence of transforaminal approach and interlaminar approach to prove their respective advantages and disadvantages.
METHODS: The following databases will be searched: Cochrane Library, PubMed, Web of Science, Embase, CNKI, Wanfang data, and China Biomedical Literature Database (CBM). The search dates will be set from the inception to November 2019. Two researchers independently screened the literature, extracted the data and assessed the risk of bias in the included studies. The efficacy outcomes including: Back and Leg Visual Analog Scale (VAS) score, the MacNab criteria, the Oswestry Disability Index (ODI) and Japanese Orthopedic Association (JOA) score. The safety outcomes including: incidence of complications (dura tear, incomplete decompression, reoperation, etc.). The meta-analysis will be conducted using Stata 12.0 software. Grading of Recommendations Assessment, Development and Evaluation (GRADE) will be used to assess evidence quality.
RESULTS: The results of this meta-analysis will be published in a peer-reviewed journal.
CONCLUSION: The meta-analysis will provide a comprehensive summary of the evidence for 2 approaches to PED in patients with LSS.
PROTOCOL REGISTRATION NUMBER: CRD42019128080.

Citation: Li YZ, et al. Efficacy and safety of percutaneous endoscopic decompression via transforaminal and interlaminar approaches for lumbar spine stenosis: Protocol for a systematic review and meta-analysis. Efficacy and safety of percutaneous endoscopic decompression via transforaminal and interlaminar approaches for lumbar spine stenosis: Protocol for a systematic review and meta-analysis. 2020; 99:e18555. doi: 10.1097/MD.0000000000018555

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/31895797/
