PMID: 31899404
Title: Risk Factors for Negative Global Treatment Outcomes in Lumbar Spinal Stenosis Surgery: A Mixed Effects Model Analysis of Data from an International Spine Registry.

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: To determine risk factors for negative global treatment outcomes as self-assessed by patients undergoing surgical treatment for lumbar spinal stenosis (LSS).
METHODS: Patients from the Spine Tango registry undergoing first-time surgery for LSS were analyzed. The primary outcome was global treatment outcomes measured at the last available follow-up ≥3 months postoperatively using a single question rating how much the operation had helped the patient's back problem (negative = no change/operation made things worse). A 2-level logistic mixed effects model with the treating department as the random effect was used to assess factors associated with a negative outcome.
RESULTS: A total of 4504 patients from 39 departments in 10 countries were included. Overall, 14.4% of patients reported a negative global treatment outcome after an average follow-up of 1.3 years. In patients with dominant leg pain, negative outcome was associated with higher baseline back pain; in those with dominant back pain, it was associated with higher baseline back pain, ASA (American Society of Anesthesiologists) ≥3, lower age, not having rigid stabilization, not having disc herniation, and the vertebral level of the most severely affected segment (L5/S1 vs. L3/4). Four departments had significantly higher odds of a negative outcome, whereas 1 department had significantly lower odds. Three out of the 4 negative effects were related to 2 departments from 1 country.
CONCLUSIONS: LSS surgery fails to help at least 1 in 10 patients. High baseline back pain is the most important factor associated with a negative treatment outcome. Department-level and potentially country-level factors of unknown origin explained a nonnegligible variation in the treatment results.

Citation: Aghayev E, et al. Risk Factors for Negative Global Treatment Outcomes in Lumbar Spinal Stenosis Surgery: A Mixed Effects Model Analysis of Data from an International Spine Registry. Risk Factors for Negative Global Treatment Outcomes in Lumbar Spinal Stenosis Surgery: A Mixed Effects Model Analysis of Data from an International Spine Registry. 2020; 136:e270-e283. doi: 10.1016/j.wneu.2019.12.147

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/31899404/
