PMID: 31901483
Title: Postoperative respiratory complications and disposition in patients with type 1 laryngeal clefts undergoing injection or repair - A single institution experience.

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: Identify incidence and factors associated with respiratory complications after type 1 cleft repair.
METHODS: Retrospective chart review of patients who underwent cleft repair over a 5-year period performed by a single surgeon. Primary endpoint was respiratory complications (oxygen desaturation <90%). Fisher's exact test was used to identify differences between repair types (endoscopic carbon dioxide laser-assisted repair and injection laryngoplasty). Logistic regression was used to identify predictors of respiratory events.
RESULTS: Fifty-five patients were included. Thirty-four (62%) patients underwent endoscopic carbon dioxide laser-assisted repair and 21 (38%) underwent injection laryngoplasty. Average hospital stay for each group was 1.6 days (SD = 3.1) and 0.6 days (SD = 0.9), respectively. Desaturations occurred in three patients (9%) in the laser-assisted repair group and one patient (4%) in the injection group. All occurred within 3 h after surgery and resolved with supplemental oxygen, oral airway placement, and/or mask ventilation. Two affected patients had comorbid diagnosis of asthma (one had poor medication compliance), and one had a history of developmental delay and hypotonia. In the injection group, desaturations occurred in one patient with a history of tracheal stenosis and double aortic arch. No correlation existed between repair type and desaturation (p = 0.57). No variables were significant predictors of events.
CONCLUSIONS: In this cohort, respiratory events after type 1 laryngeal cleft repair occurred early in the postoperative period, in children with cardiac and pulmonary comorbidities. This suggests postoperative admission may only be necessary for a select group of patients undergoing type 1 cleft repair. However, further research is needed to determine criteria for same-day discharge.

Citation: Harris VC, et al. Postoperative respiratory complications and disposition in patients with type 1 laryngeal clefts undergoing injection or repair - A single institution experience. Postoperative respiratory complications and disposition in patients with type 1 laryngeal clefts undergoing injection or repair - A single institution experience. 2020; 131:109844. doi: 10.1016/j.ijporl.2019.109844

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/31901483/
