PMID: 31904520
Title: Endovascular Treatment of Spontaneous Internal Carotid Artery Dissection with Proximal Embolic Protection Device.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: The aim of this study was to report the feasibility and outcomes with the endovascular treatment of spontaneous internal carotid artery dissections (ICADs) using a proximal embolic protection device (EPD).
METHODS: This is a retrospective analysis of patients treated for spontaneous symptomatic ICAD using a proximal EPD from January 2017 to December 2018. Indication for treatment was the presence of neurologic symptoms. Early outcomes measured included technical success, perioperative mortality, and major cardiovascular or cerebrovascular complications. Late outcomes were recurrent neurologic symptoms, patency, and reinterventions.
RESULTS: A total of 4 male patients with ICAD were included. A preoperative cerebral computed tomography positive for cerebral ischemic events was reported in all cases. In 3 patients, the neurologic symptoms consisted of a transient ischemic attack; the remaining patient presented an amaurosis fugax and aphasia. In 2 patients, ICAD was associated with a carotid significant stenosis. In all patients, the reported approach was feasible with no complications and complete anatomic dissection resolution. At a mean follow-up of 18 months, all stents are patent and no restenosis recurrence or complications were registered.
CONCLUSIONS: The use of proximal EPDs allowed the treatment of ICAD under flow arrest, minimizing the risk of stroke during the endovascular maneuvers. Larger series are required to validate this treatment strategy.

Citation: Pecoraro F, et al. Endovascular Treatment of Spontaneous Internal Carotid Artery Dissection with Proximal Embolic Protection Device. Endovascular Treatment of Spontaneous Internal Carotid Artery Dissection with Proximal Embolic Protection Device. 2020; 66:667.e9-667.e14. doi: 10.1016/j.avsg.2019.12.019

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/31904520/
