PMID: 31916406
Title: Palliative treatment of recurrent tracheal pleomorphic adenoma 10 years after segmental resection using the endobronchial shaver.

Abstract: OBJECTIVES: Thoracic surgeons often encounter patients with obstruction of the central airways requiring bronchoscopy to provide an open airway. The endobronchial shaver (Richard Wolf GmbH,Germany) is one of the new devices available for treatment of central airway obstruction. We report a tracheal tumor managed with this device.
METHODS: We report the successful use of endobronchial shaver via rigid bronchoscopy to resecte a complex stenosis 77-year-old male patient. Patient admitted to our clinic for progressive dyspnea and stridor. The patient's medical history was cervical collar incision with resection and anastomosis 10 years ago. A mass causing a obstruction of 70% of the tracheal lumen was detected with fiberoptic bronchoscopy. So, we decided to use endobronchial shaver for immediate effect.
RESULTS: Trachea was successfully recanalized with Endobronchial shaver (Richard Wolf GmbH, Germany). The patient was successfully extubated, and his dyspnea was resolved. Histopathologic examination of debris was revealed a tracheal pleomorphic adenoma. Postoperative course was uneventful and there was no evidence of recurrent or stenosis in 5 months of follow-up.
CONCLUSION: The Endobronchial shaver is an excellent instrument to manage intrluminal complex stenoses including tumor and granulation tissue with advantages including efficient removal of mass without a need for separate suctioning, coagulation,and limitation in oxygenation.

Citation: Karamustafaoglu YA, et al. Palliative treatment of recurrent tracheal pleomorphic adenoma 10 years after segmental resection using the endobronchial shaver. Palliative treatment of recurrent tracheal pleomorphic adenoma 10 years after segmental resection using the endobronchial shaver. 2020; 14:495-497. doi: 10.1111/crj.13149

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/31916406/
