PMID: 31914030
Title: Acupuncture on treating angina pectoris: A systematic review.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Coronary heart disease angina pectoris is a common clinical symptom in patients with coronary heart disease, due to coronary atherosclerotic stenosis or sputum leading to coronary insufficiency, myocardial transient ischemia, hypoxia caused by precordial pain as the main clinical manifestations Group syndrome. Coronary heart disease angina causes coronary blood flow insufficiency, cannot meet the normal activities of myocardial cells, leading to myocardial ischemia or necrosis. When the disease occurs, there is paroxysmal and crushing pain in the precordial area of the patient. Therefore, we recognize the importance of the disease and have paid enough attention. Clinical studies in recent years have found that the use of acupuncture in the treatment of angina pectoris has a good clinical application prospect. This study was conducted to study the effect of using acupuncture to treat angina pectoris.
METHODS AND ANALYSIS: We will search for PubMed, Cochrane Library, AMED, EMbase, WorldSciNet, Nature, Science online and China Journal Full-text Database, China Biomedical Literature CD-ROM Database (CBM), and related randomized controlled trials included in the China Resources Database. The time is limited from the construction of the library to November 2019. We will use the criteria provided by Cochrane 5.1.0 for quality assessment and risk assessment of the included studies, and use the Revman 5.3 and Stata13.0 software for meta-analysis of the effectiveness, recurrence rate, and symptom scores of angina pectoris.
ETHICS AND DISSEMINATION: This systematic review will evaluate the efficacy and safety of acupuncture for angina pectoris. Because all of the data used in this systematic review and meta-analysis have been published, this review does not require ethical approval. Furthermore, all data will be analyzed anonymously during the review process Trial.
REGISTRATION NUMBER: PROSPERO CRD42019138003.

Citation: Wang JS, et al. Acupuncture on treating angina pectoris: A systematic review. Acupuncture on treating angina pectoris: A systematic review. 2020; 99:e18548. doi: 10.1097/MD.0000000000018548

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/31914030/
