PMID: 31925509
Title: Upward vectors for osteogenic distraction treatment in secondary chronic intracranial hypertension in children undergoing scaphocephaly surgery: 2 cases reported.

Abstract: The occurrence of secondary synostosis of coronal sutures at distance from H-craniectomy surgery for scaphocephaly concerns about 10% of children. Intracranial hypertension in these children remains exceptional but generally requires a surgical reoperation. Two children aged 3 and 5- months- old had been operated for scaphocephaly by H-craniectomy in two different hospital centers. Their clinical follow-up described a partial persistence of dolichocephalic deformity and an impression of parietal stenosis. During their growth, chronic headaches appeared with a complaint expressed at the ages of 4 and 5 years. In both cases, ophthalmic examination revealed significant bilateral papillary edema without loss of visual acuity. The imaging assessment (CT-scan and MRI) showed the absence of Chiari malformation and venous abnormality. For both, there was a compression image of the parietal lobes in relation to the persistence of a temporoparietal synostosis. An osteogenic parietal distraction permitted a volumetric brain expansion consecutive to the skull and meninges remodeling in only 6 months, associated with a leap forward acquisition, a normalization of the ophthalmic examination, and a complete loss of headaches. In conclusion, this new approach could be used in the case of chronic intracranial hypertension consecutive to a secondary parietal synostosis after a scaphocephaly surgery.

Citation: Pech Gourg G, et al. Upward vectors for osteogenic distraction treatment in secondary chronic intracranial hypertension in children undergoing scaphocephaly surgery: 2 cases reported. Upward vectors for osteogenic distraction treatment in secondary chronic intracranial hypertension in children undergoing scaphocephaly surgery: 2 cases reported. 2020; 36:1325-1330. doi: 10.1007/s00381-019-04491-8

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/31925509/
