PMID: 31923601
Title: Retrospective Analysis and Systematic Review of Isolated Traumatic Dissections of the Celiac Artery.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Isolated dissections of the celiac artery (CA) after blunt trauma are rarely described. This retrospective analysis and systematic review analyzes epidemiology, radiologic examinations, patterns of injuries, therapeutic measures, clinical courses, and outcomes.
METHODS: Retrospective analysis of polytraumatized patients admitted between 1997 and 2012 to a trauma center level I. Systematic literature search was carried out on pubmed.gov, eurorad.org, and google.com.
RESULTS: Isolated traumatic dissections of the CA had an incidence of 0.17% in a retrospective collective (n = 9). Mean age was 31.7 years in 6 male (66.7%) and 3 female (33.3%) patients. Systematic literature search identified 12 primary sources describing 13 males (100%) with a mean age of 41.3 years. Traffic accidents and falls were the most common causes of injury. An intimal flap (77.7%) and a thrombosed false lumen (59.1%) were the most common computed tomographic findings. Twenty-two patients were analyzed, and 16 patients were treated conservatively. The CA was bypassed in 2 symptomatic patients. One patient was treated with a stent. Two patients died because of massive bleeding, and 1 patient died because of liver failure. About 19 discharged patients were asymptomatic on follow-up. Long-term follow-up with magnetic resonance angiography showed stable dissections (n = 1), medium stenosis (n = 1), resolution of the dissection (n = 2), high-grade stenosis of the CA combined with a small pseudoaneurysm (n = 1), or occlusion of the CA with sufficient collateralization (n = 3). Pharmaceutical treatment was individualized with low-molecular-weight heparin, heparin, or warfarin, and acetylicsalicylic acid.
CONCLUSIONS: Traumatic CA dissections are mostly caused by traffic accidents and falls. Visceral perfusion should be monitored clinically and radiologically. Beginning visceral ischemia requires early invasive treatment. Endovascular and open surgery are possible options. Benefits of specific pharmaceuticals are still up for debate. Follow-up via magnetic resonance imaging or computed tomography angiography is essential to rule out vascular complications.
LEVEL OF EVIDENCE: III (Retrospective therapeutic study and systematic literature review).

Citation: Birkl J, et al. Retrospective Analysis and Systematic Review of Isolated Traumatic Dissections of the Celiac Artery. Retrospective Analysis and Systematic Review of Isolated Traumatic Dissections of the Celiac Artery. 2020; 66:250-262. doi: 10.1016/j.avsg.2020.01.005

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/31923601/
