PMID: 31938678
Title: Stent-assisted Coil Embolization to Treat Extracranial Carotid Artery Aneurysm 13 Years after Endarterectomy: A Case Report.

Abstract: Development of extracranial carotid artery aneurysm (ECCA) after carotid endarterectomy (CEA) is a rare complication, occurring in connection with <1% of all CEAs. The main causes are infection, suture failure, and degeneration of arterial wall or patch. The traditional treatment has been operative repair, which can present a significant technical challenge owing to reoperative neck inflammation and potential cranial nerve injuries. Here, we report a case of successful stent-assisted coil embolization for right noninfectious ECCA. A 63-year-old female was admitted to our hospital for a 3-cm pulsating mass in her right midneck. Doppler examination and digital subtraction angiography revealed a large (15 mm) ECCA at the right common carotid artery (CCA). Thirteen years earlier, eversion CEA with patch angioplasty and abbreviation of the internal carotid artery (ICA) had been performed for a symptomatic 80% diameter stenosis with transient ischemic attack at another hospital. As the patient refused blood transfusion for religious reasons, we treated her with stent-assisted coil embolization, which achieved nearly complete obliteration of the aneurysm while preserving the parent artery patency. Three months after initial treatment, ultrasound revealed complete occlusion of the ECCA, but also showed stent shortening. Hence, we performed an additional stent placement so as to overlap the previous stent by 2.5 cm. Six months after initial treatment, carotid duplex ultrasound confirmed a good outcome. This procedure is an excellent choice for high-risk patients, and a larger case series is needed to establish this technique as the treatment of choice for ECCAs.

Citation: Haruma J, et al. Stent-assisted Coil Embolization to Treat Extracranial Carotid Artery Aneurysm 13 Years after Endarterectomy: A Case Report. Stent-assisted Coil Embolization to Treat Extracranial Carotid Artery Aneurysm 13 Years after Endarterectomy: A Case Report. 2020; 7:23-27. doi: 10.2176/nmccrj.cr.2019-0030

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/31938678/
