PMID: 31948375
Title: Comparative Effectiveness of Endovascular Treatment Modalities for De Novo Femoropopliteal Lesions: A Network Meta-analysis of Randomized Controlled Trials.

Abstract: Purpose: To report the results of a network meta-analysis of randomized controlled trials (RCTs) comparing multiple endovascular treatments for de novo femoropopliteal lesions. Materials and Methods: The MEDLINE, EMBASE, and the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials databases were systematically searched on June 1, 2019, for prospective RCTs comparing 14 treatments [ie, atherectomy, brachytherapy, cryoplasty, cutting balloons, drug-coated balloons, bare nitinol stents, drug-eluting stents (DES), covered stents (CS), and combinations] in the treatment of de novo femoropopliteal lesions. Outcomes were technical success; binary restenosis and target lesion revascularization (TLR) at 6, 12, and/or 24 months; and all-cause mortality at 12 months. Ultimately, 53 articles reporting on 45 studies (91 study arms; 5565 patients) were selected. For the technical success outcome, all types of stents, all balloons, and all atherectomy devices were aggregated in stent, balloon, and atherectomy technology groups, respectively. Results: In terms of technical success for aggregated treatment types, stent technology was the most effective treatment and was better than balloon and atherectomy technologies. In terms of binary restenosis, DES was the most effective single treatment at the 6- and 12-month follow-up and CS at the 24-month follow-up. Both DES and CS were better than the majority of other single treatments, including balloon angioplasty, cutting balloon, cryoplasty, directional atherectomy, and bare nitinol stent during all follow-up periods. In terms of TLR, DES was the second most effective single treatment and the most effective single treatment at the 6- and 12-month follow-up intervals; CS was the most effective single treatment at the 24-month follow-up. Both DES and CS were better than the majority of other single treatments. The 12-month all-cause mortality of both DES and CS were similar to other treatments, whereas cryoplasty seemed to be the least effective treatment with regard to binary restenosis and TLR. Conclusion: Both DES and CS had substantial advantages in terms of restenosis and TLR in femoropopliteal lesions and were similar to aggregate stent technology in terms of technical success. DES performed better within 12 months after operation and CS at ~24 months, but neither had much advantage in terms of mortality. In contrast, cryoplasty seemed to be a less effective treatment.

Citation: Zhou Y, et al. Comparative Effectiveness of Endovascular Treatment Modalities for De Novo Femoropopliteal Lesions: A Network Meta-analysis of Randomized Controlled Trials. Comparative Effectiveness of Endovascular Treatment Modalities for De Novo Femoropopliteal Lesions: A Network Meta-analysis of Randomized Controlled Trials. 2020; 27:42-59. doi: 10.1177/1526602819895996

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/31948375/
