PMID: 31940248
Title: Structural and functional definition of the pulmonary vein system in a chronic hypoxia-induced pulmonary hypertension rat model.

Abstract: Unlike the pulmonary artery (PA), the pathophysiological changes of the pulmonary vein (PV) in the development of pulmonary hypertension (PH) remain largely unknown. In this study, we comprehensively investigated the structural and functional changes in the PV isolated from the chronic hypoxia (CH; 10% O<sub>2</sub>, 21 days)-induced PH rat model (CHPH). Results showed that CH caused an increase in right ventricular pressure but did not affect the mean pulmonary venous pressure and the left atrial pressure. Similar to the PA, vascular lumen stenosis and medial thickening were also observed in the intrapulmonary veins isolated from the CHPH rats. Notably, CH induced more severe loss in the endothelium of intrapulmonary veins than the arteries. Then, the contractile response to 5-HT and U46619 was significantly greater in the intrapulmonary small veins (ISPV) and arteries (ISPA) isolated from CHPH rats than those from normoxic rats but not in the extrapulmonary and intrapulmonary large veins. Treatment with nifedipine (Nif), SKF96365 (SKF), or ryanodine and caffeine either partially attenuated (Nif) or dramatically abolished (SKF or ryanodine and caffeine) 5-HT-induced maximal contraction in ISPV from both normoxic and CHPH rats. Because of the severe loss of endothelium in the PV of CHPH rats, the decrease in acetylcholine (ACh)-induced endothelium-dependent relaxation was significantly larger in ISPV than ISPA, whereas the sodium nitroprusside-induced endothelium-independent relaxation was not altered in both ISPA and ISPV. In conclusion, our results provide fundamental data to comprehensively define the PV system in CHPH rat model.

Citation: Wu X, et al. Structural and functional definition of the pulmonary vein system in a chronic hypoxia-induced pulmonary hypertension rat model. Structural and functional definition of the pulmonary vein system in a chronic hypoxia-induced pulmonary hypertension rat model. 2020; 318:C555-C569. doi: 10.1152/ajpcell.00289.2019

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/31940248/
