PMID: 31943240
Title: Voice and Swallowing Outcomes Following Airway Reconstruction in Adults: A Systematic Review.

Abstract: OBJECTIVES: Laryngotracheal stenosis is a rare condition characterized by upper airway narrowing. Reconstructive surgical treatment aims to manage the area of stenosis to improve dyspnea and can impact voice and swallowing function. This article critically evaluates the literature about voice and swallowing outcomes in adults with laryngotracheal stenosis who undergo reconstructive surgery.
STUDY DESIGN: Systematic review.
METHODS: Six databases were searched for articles referring to voice and swallowing outcome measures following reconstruction procedures in adults with laryngotracheal stenosis. Screening was completed using predefined inclusion/exclusion criteria.
RESULTS: A total of 143 abstracts were reviewed, with 67 articles selected for full-text review. Twenty studies met the inclusion criteria. Data extraction was completed with the Strengthening Reporting of Observational Studies in Epidemiology checklist with Oxford Centre for Evidence-Based Medicine Level of Evidence used to indicate quality. Risk of bias was assessed using the Risk of Bias Assessment Tool for Non-Randomized Studies. All studies scored a high risk of bias in at least one of the domains. Selection and timing of outcome measures was heterogenous, and there was limited information provided about rationale or reliability.
CONCLUSIONS: The literature acknowledges the importance of voice and swallowing outcomes following airway reconstruction. Studies show correlation between reconstructive surgery and deterioration in vocal function; there are no consistent data about swallowing outcomes. The lack of a core outcome measures set for adults with laryngotracheal stenosis limits the findings of this review. Further research is needed to establish clear criteria for robust and clinically relevant outcome measurement. Laryngoscope, 131:146-157, 2021.

Citation: Clunie GM, et al. Voice and Swallowing Outcomes Following Airway Reconstruction in Adults: A Systematic Review. Voice and Swallowing Outcomes Following Airway Reconstruction in Adults: A Systematic Review. 2021; 131:146-157. doi: 10.1002/lary.28494

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/31943240/
