PMID: 31962054
Title: Device profile of different paclitaxel-coated balloons: Neuro Elutax SV, Elutax '3' Neuro and SeQuent Please NEO for the treatment of symptomatic intracranial high-grade stenosis: overview of their feasibility and safety.

Abstract: Introduction: Intracranial atherosclerotic disease (ICAD) is highly prevalent and probably the most common cause of stroke worldwide. Despite best medical treatment (BMT), the rate of recurrent stroke in symptomatic ICAD patients is elevated, especially in those with high-grade stenosis. Thus, alternative treatment options are needed. So far, endovascular ICAD treatment has been considered a second-line therapy. However, recent progress in the endovascular acute stroke treatment challenges this issue. Drug-coated balloon (DCB) - percutaneous transluminal angioplasty (PTA) represents a promising alternative to BMT alone.Areas covered: In this review, current clinical studies on paclitaxel-coated DCB-PTA in symptomatic high-grade ICAD patients will be presented and discussed. Furthermore, technical profile of the different paclitaxel-coated DCB, which has been used for intracranial use (Neuro Elutax SV, Elutax '3' Neuro, and SeQuent Please NEO) are being presented.Expert opinion: Despite limited data and its experimental (off-line) use, DCB-PTA has been demonstrated to be feasible and safe in selected ICAD patients with symptomatic high-grade stenosis. DCB-PTA offers several advantages compared to alternative endovascular therapy option as well as BMT alone. Consequently, DCP-PTA might be a promising candidate for the future armamentarium in ICAD treatment.

Citation: Gruber P and Remonda L. Device profile of different paclitaxel-coated balloons: Neuro Elutax SV, Elutax '3' Neuro and SeQuent Please NEO for the treatment of symptomatic intracranial high-grade stenosis: overview of their feasibility and safety. Device profile of different paclitaxel-coated balloons: Neuro Elutax SV, Elutax '3' Neuro and SeQuent Please NEO for the treatment of symptomatic intracranial high-grade stenosis: overview of their feasibility and safety. 2020; 17:87-92. doi: 10.1080/17434440.2020.1719829

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/31962054/
