PMID: 31969171
Title: Posterolateral fusion combined with posterior decompression shows superiority in the treatment of severe lumbar spinal stenosis without lumbar disc protrusion or prolapse: a retrospective cohort study.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Currently, discectomy and posterior decompression combined with lumbar circumferential fusion (CF) have been accepted as a major procedure for severe lumbar spinal stenosis (LSS). However, studies on severe LSS without protruded intervertebral disc to minimize study bias are lacking. We aimed to investigate the effectiveness of sole posterior decompression with lumbar posterolateral fusion (PLF) and the necessity of discectomy and CF in patients with severe LSS without lumbar disc protrusion or prolapse.
METHODS: This retrospective cohort study included 153 severe LSS patients without lumbar disc protrusion or prolapse who were admitted in a tertiary spine center with at least a 2-year follow-up between January 2014 and August 2017. Patients were divided into the PLF (n = 77; those who underwent posterior decompression with PLF in 1-3 segments) or CF (n = 76; those who underwent posterior decompression and discectomy with CF in 1-3 segments) groups. Pedicle screw instrumentation was applied to avoid postoperative instability. Clinical outcomes were assessed by visual analog scale (VAS), Oswestry Disability Index (ODI), and Japanese Orthopedic Association Score (JOA, lumbar pain score). Duration of operation, blood loss, surgical cost, and postoperative complications were analyzed. Height of intervertebral space, lumbar lordosis, and bone union were confirmed by lumbar radiography or computed tomography.
RESULTS: Both groups achieved significant improvement in JOA, ODI, and VAS compared with preoperative values (P < 0.001), but without significant difference between the two groups. Both groups achieved high fusion rate without difference and correction of lumbar lordosis and intervertebral space height (P < 0.001), especially in the CF group (P < 0.05). Duration of operation, blood loss, and operation cost were significantly higher in the CF group than in the PLF group (P < 0.001). Eight complications were found in both groups (1, PLF group; 7, CF group; P < 0.05).
CONCLUSIONS: After posterior decompression, PLF successfully achieves bony fusion and symptom relief with lower complication rate, lesser surgical blood loss, shorter operative time, and lesser cost than CF. Thus, sole posterior decompression with PLF is an effective treatment for severe LSS without lumbar disc protrusion or prolapse.

Citation: Wang C, et al. Posterolateral fusion combined with posterior decompression shows superiority in the treatment of severe lumbar spinal stenosis without lumbar disc protrusion or prolapse: a retrospective cohort study. Posterolateral fusion combined with posterior decompression shows superiority in the treatment of severe lumbar spinal stenosis without lumbar disc protrusion or prolapse: a retrospective cohort study. 2020; 15:26. doi: 10.1186/s13018-020-1552-8

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/31969171/
