PMID: 31969630
Title: A comparative analysis using flowmeter, laser-Doppler |spectrophotometry, and indocyanine green-videoangiography for detection of vascular stenosis in free flaps.

Abstract: The effects of gradual vascular occlusion on the blood supply of perfused areas are poorly described. Information relating to the comparison of flap monitoring techniques is lacking. Varying stenotic conditions (0%, 25%, 50%, 75% and 100%) were generated on purpose at the A. and V. femoralis in the rat model. Analyses included flowmeter, simultaneous laser-Doppler flowmetry and tissue spectrophotometry (O2C) and indocyanine green- (ICG-) videoangiography with integrated FLOW 800 tool. A Random Forests prediction model was used to analyse the importance of each method to diagnose the stenotic conditions. The ability to discriminate and to accurately estimate the probability of stenosis was assessed by Receiver Operating Characteristic (ROC) curves and calibration plots. Blood flow changes for all modalities were described in detail. Flowmeter displayed earliest a linear decrease as a result of increasing stenosis. A stenosis of 50% degrees was most difficult to detect correctly. The combination of flowmeter and ICG-videoangiography showed high diagnostic power for each stenotic situation (area under the ROC > 0.79). Flowmeter and ICG-videoangiography showed to be most relevant in detection of varying stenotic conditions and may change the clinical outcome. The O2C showed less effect on varying stenotic situations as the only surface monitoring device.

Citation: Mücke T, et al. A comparative analysis using flowmeter, laser-Doppler |spectrophotometry, and indocyanine green-videoangiography for detection of vascular stenosis in free flaps. A comparative analysis using flowmeter, laser-Doppler |spectrophotometry, and indocyanine green-videoangiography for detection of vascular stenosis in free flaps. 2020; 10:939. doi: 10.1038/s41598-020-57777-2

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/31969630/
