PMID: 31977867
Title: Severe peripheral arterial diseases in hemodialysis patient: A case report.

Abstract: RATIONALE: Peripheral arterial diseases (PADs) is defined as a systemic arterial disorders involving the lower extremity arteries, iliac, and carotid, which is developed more common in patients with chronic kidney disease (CKD) than individual with normal renal function. Concurrence of mesenteric artery disease and lower extremity artery disease (LEAD) is rare. The presence of PADs in patients receiving hemodialysis leads to a dramatic increase in risk of cardiovascular mortality. However, the early diagnosis of PADs in patient with CKD remains a challenge to nephrologists, which adds an adverse effect on prognosis.
PATIENT CONCERNS: A 48-year-old man received regular hemodialysis due to end-stage renal failure caused by type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) for 7 years, who was admitted into hospital for acute, severe rest pain of the right lower extremity at the first time. The computed tomography angiography showed severe, diffuse stenosis of the distal third of femoral artery. After discharged, he was readmitted into hospital for abdominal pain and the recurred right lower limb pain. A diagnostic angiography confirmed the initial occlusion of superior mesenteric artery, severe obstruction of the distal segment of femoral artery and diffuse, irregular stenosis of arteria peronea and arteria tibialis posterior.
DIAGNOSIS: The patient was diagnosed as PADs including LEAD and mesenteric artery disease.
INTERVENTIONS: The percutaneous transulminal angioplasty (PTA) combined with antiplatelet therapy and beraprost were performed. Moreover, the cinacalcet and lanthanum carbonate were prescribed to control calcium-phosphorus- parathyroid hormone metabolism.
OUTCOMES: The patient was free of abdominal pain and partly relieved from the ache of lower limb after PTA. However, he finally succumbed to acute myocardial infarction.
LESSONS: The incidence of PADs is higher in dialysis patients due to a unique set of biochemical and endocrine abnormalities. As there is a high uremic status and PADs burden in patients with hemodialysis, the short term risk of cardiovascular disesase mortality markedly increases. There is a need for nephrologists and cardiovascular physicians to identify these patients and then provide early and proper treatment.

Citation: Li J, et al. Severe peripheral arterial diseases in hemodialysis patient: A case report. Severe peripheral arterial diseases in hemodialysis patient: A case report. 2020; 99:e18760. doi: 10.1097/MD.0000000000018760

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/31977867/
