PMID: 31980100
Title: State recognition of decompressive laminectomy with multiple information in robot-assisted surgery.

Abstract: The decompressive laminectomy is a common operation for treatment of lumbar spinal stenosis. The tools for grinding and drilling are used for fenestration and internal fixation, respectively. The state recognition is one of the main technologies in robot-assisted surgery, especially in tele-surgery, because surgeons have limited perception during remote-controlled robot-assisted surgery. The novelty of this paper is that a state recognition system is proposed for the robot-assisted tele-surgery. By combining the learning methods and traditional methods, the robot from the slave-end can think about the current operation state like a surgeon, and provide more information and decision suggestions to the master-end surgeon, which aids surgeons work safer in tele-surgery. For the fenestration, we propose an image-based state recognition method that consists a U-Net derived network, grayscale redistribution and dynamic receptive field assisting in controlling the grinding process to prevent the grinding-bit from crossing the inner edge of the lamina to damage the spinal nerves. For the internal fixation, we propose an audio and force-based state recognition method that consists signal features extraction methods, LSTM-based prediction and information fusion assisting in monitoring the drilling process to prevent the drilling-bit from crossing the outer edge of the vertebral pedicle to damage the spinal nerves. Several experiments are conducted to show the reliability of the proposed system in robot-assisted surgery.

Citation: Sun Y, et al. State recognition of decompressive laminectomy with multiple information in robot-assisted surgery. State recognition of decompressive laminectomy with multiple information in robot-assisted surgery. 2020; 102:101763. doi: 10.1016/j.artmed.2019.101763

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/31980100/
