PMID: 31982134
Title: Fendrr involves in the pathogenesis of cardiac fibrosis via regulating miR-106b/SMAD3 axis.

Abstract: Cardiovascular diseases (CVDs) is the first cause of death worldwide, generally exhibiting a high morbidity, high disability rate and high mortality especially in the elderly persons (>50 years old). Previously, extensive studies have demonstrated that cardiac fibrosis plays cardinal roles in the pathogenesis of CVDs. However, due to the unclear underlying mechanisms of cardiac fibrosis, its clinical intervention remains very lacking. Long non-coding RNAs (lncRNAs), a class of non-coding RNA but differing from microRNAs, are generally considered as transcripts with a length ranging 200 to 100 nucleotides. Recently, accumulating evidence showed that lncRNAs involve in the pathogenesis of cardiac fibrosis. Fendrr (FOXF1 adjacent non-coding developmental regulatory RNA), is a spliced long non-coding RNA transcribed bi-directionally with FOXF1 on the opposite strand. Fendrr has been demonstrated to be essential for normal development of the heart and body wall in mouse, and shows a good anti-fibrotic activity in pulmonary fibrosis. In this study, we aimed to explore the effects of Fendrr on cardiac fibrosis. Intriguingly, we first observed that lncRNA Fendrr was up-regulated in the heart tissues of transverse aortic constriction (TAC) induced cardiac fibrosis mouse models, determined by RT-QPCR. Loss-function of Fendrr significantly alleviated the cardiac fibrosis phenotypes induced by TAC, indicating that Fendrr is required for the pathogenesis of cardiac fibrosis. In mechanism, we demonstrated experimentally that Fendrr directly targeting miR-106b, by which the lncRNA promotes cardiac fibrosis (indicated by the elevation of Col1a1, Col3a1, CTGF and ACTA2 expression) in a miR-106b mediated manner. Collectively, our findings highlight the axis of Fendrr/miR-106b/Samd3 in the pathogenesis of cardiac fibrosis, which may be a promising target for clinical intervention target of cardiac fibrosis.

Citation: Gong L, et al. Fendrr involves in the pathogenesis of cardiac fibrosis via regulating miR-106b/SMAD3 axis. Fendrr involves in the pathogenesis of cardiac fibrosis via regulating miR-106b/SMAD3 axis. 2020; 524:169-177. doi: 10.1016/j.bbrc.2020.01.062

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/31982134/
