PMID: 31989184
Title: Effect of QTU prolongation on hyperemic instantaneous wave-free ratio value: a prospective single-center study.

Abstract: We hypothesized that in patients with QT prolongation, resistance might not decrease in the wave-free period, because QTU prolongation cannot be detected by instantaneous wave-free ratio (iFR) analysis software. We investigated whether corrected QTU (QTUc) prolongation affects the hyperemic iFR value. Forty-two consecutive patients with intermediate stenosis (≥ 50%) in the left anterior descending coronary artery (LAD) were analyzed. Fractional flow reserve (FFR) and hyperemic iFR were simultaneously and continuously recorded with intravenous adenosine triphosphate (ATP) and papaverine infusions. In 17 patients with stenosis in the proximal LAD, coronary flow was measured. Patients were divided into two groups according to the median absolute deviation of the QTUc by ATP administration/QTUc by papaverine administration. FFR, hyperemic iFR, and flow data were compared between each stimulus and group. Moreover, influences of pressure and electrocardiogram parameters on differences in iFR values under ATP and papaverine administration were compared between the following two groups (group 1: the absolute difference of hyperemic iFR values between ATP and papaverine administration is ≤ 0.05; group 2: that is > 0.05). The paired t test and t test were used in analysis. Hyperemic iFR values of patients under the use of papaverine were lower than those of patients under the use of ATP when QTUc was more prolonged by papaverine administration than by ATP administration (ATP 0.74 ± 0.14, papaverine 0.71 ± 0.15, P = 0.025). No significant differences were observed in the FFR value and flow data between the groups. Regarding QTU, QTUc, and QTUc by ATP/QTUc by papaverine, significant differences were observed between group 1 and group 2. Pressure parameters did not induce significant differences. QTUc prolongation induced by papaverine was associated with lower hyperemic iFR values. An iFR-based assessment might lead to inappropriate treatment of patients with QTUc prolongation.

Citation: Nakayama M, et al. Effect of QTU prolongation on hyperemic instantaneous wave-free ratio value: a prospective single-center study. Effect of QTU prolongation on hyperemic instantaneous wave-free ratio value: a prospective single-center study. 2020; 35:909-917. doi: 10.1007/s00380-020-01562-8

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/31989184/
