PMID: 31992107
Title: Emergent carotid artery stenting in patients with acute ischemic stroke due to cervical internal carotid artery steno-occlusive lesion: Comparison of tandem intracranial occlusion and isolated cervical internal carotid artery occlusion.

Abstract: PURPOSE: Acute ischemic strokes caused by steno-occlusive lesion of the cervical internal carotid artery are associated with poor clinical outcome. We evaluated the clinical efficacy of emergent carotid artery stenting for the management of these lesions. We compared the clinical outcomes regarding the intracranial lesion, namely tandem occlusions versus isolated cervical internal carotid artery occlusion.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: We retrospectively reviewed patients with acute ischemic stroke who underwent carotid artery stenting for cervical internal carotid artery steno-occlusive lesion between 2011 and 2018. After dividing the patients into two groups according to the presence or absence of intracranial lesions (tandem group and isolated cervical group), we analyzed demographic data, angiographic findings, and clinical outcomes. A modified Rankin Scale score ≤2 was defined as a favorable clinical outcome.
RESULTS: Of 75 patients, 46 patients (61.3%) had tandem lesions, and the remaining 29 had only cervical internal carotid artery steno-occlusive lesion. Successful stenting was performed in all patients with favorable clinical outcomes (64.0%). Successful reperfusion score (thrombolysis in cerebral infarction ≥2 b) was 84.0%; tandem group (76.1%) versus isolated cervical group (96.6%) of cases. Mean modified Rankin Scale score at 90-days was 2.09. The rate of favorable clinical outcome showed no statistically significant difference between the two groups (p = 0.454).
CONCLUSIONS: Endovascular treatment in patients with acute ischemic stroke due to cervical internal carotid artery steno-occlusive lesion is a technically feasible and clinically effective intervention regardless of intracranial occlusion. Therefore, we recommend endovascular treatment regardless of the presence of concomitant intracranial artery occlusion for patients with acute ischemic stroke caused by cervical internal carotid artery steno-occlusive lesion.

Citation: Park SE, et al. Emergent carotid artery stenting in patients with acute ischemic stroke due to cervical internal carotid artery steno-occlusive lesion: Comparison of tandem intracranial occlusion and isolated cervical internal carotid artery occlusion. Emergent carotid artery stenting in patients with acute ischemic stroke due to cervical internal carotid artery steno-occlusive lesion: Comparison of tandem intracranial occlusion and isolated cervical internal carotid artery occlusion. 2020; 26:425-432. doi: 10.1177/1591019919899755

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/31992107/
