PMID: 31999067
Title: First in man study of a new semi-open cell design Zephyr cobalt-chromium stent in large vessels and conduits.

Abstract: OBJECTIVES: We present a first-in-man clinical use of a new hybrid design stent in stenosed large vessels. Its unique C and S polylinks prevent foreshortening without compromising its strength. Its thin profile permits use of smaller introducer sheaths.
BACKGROUND: Stent angioplasty is widely employed in large vessel and conduit stenosis. These procedures are associated with difficulties due to large stent profiles, stent fractures, foreshortening and recoil. Cobalt chromium stents have high tensile strengths compared to stainless steel stents.
METHODS: A retrospective analysis of feasibility and safety of a new Cobalt chromium stent in large vessels namely aorta, pulmonary arteries and outflow conduits was done from two institutions. Demographic patient details, procedural results, complications and medium term follow-up were analyzed. Stent recoil, foreshortening, fractures were assessed.
RESULTS: Twenty patients including three with aortic coarctations, seven with stenosed conduits and 10 with pulmonary artery stenosis underwent stent angioplasty using 23 stents. Three stents were deployed to expand further a previously implanted stent. Procedure was successful in all patients, lumen increased by 150-300%, gradients reduced in all patients. There was no stent recoil, foreshortening or fractures. There were no complications. At a follow up of 3-27 months, there were no stent related complications and the gradients remained stable.
CONCLUSIONS: The new Zephyr stent was useful in a wide variety of stenotic lesions involving large vessels including those that were previously stented. Lack of stent recoil and foreshortening seems to be an advantage for this new stent that needs validation in larger multicenter studies.

Citation: Sivakumar K, et al. First in man study of a new semi-open cell design Zephyr cobalt-chromium stent in large vessels and conduits. First in man study of a new semi-open cell design Zephyr cobalt-chromium stent in large vessels and conduits. 2020; 96:367-375. doi: 10.1002/ccd.28737

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/31999067/
