PMID: 31996160
Title: Unexpected presentation and surgical salvage of transplant renal artery dissection caused by vascular clamping: a case report.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Transplant renal artery dissection is a rare and serious event that can cause allograft dysfunction and activation of the renin-mediated renovascular hypertension. Most cases are induced by percutaneous transluminal angioplasty, arteriosclerotic disease, or fibromuscular dysplasia. We observed a case of transplant renal artery dissection induced by unusual causes during kidney transplantation.
CASE PRESENTATION: A 35-year-old woman, whose mother donated a kidney to her, underwent ABO-incompatible living kidney transplantation. The allograft had one renal artery and vein that were anastomosed to the internal iliac artery and external iliac vein, respectively. Although careful handling was performed in all procedures including vascular clamping, Doppler ultrasonography (US) immediately after reperfusion showed an increase in the systolic blood velocity and urine output was not observed. Arterial anastomotic stenosis was suspected, but upon exploration, a renal artery dissection was detected in the middle portion of the donor artery. The part of the transplant renal artery was resected, and cold reflux was started again. At the resected part of transplant renal artery, dissection was identified. After re-anastomosis, Doppler US revealed that the blood flow of the renal artery was adequate without an increase in the systolic blood velocity, and sufficient blood flow was observed throughout the allograft. Urine output was also observed as soon as blood flow returned, and serum creatinine level decreased to 0.95 mg/dL after surgery. The cause of injury might have been vascular clamping in order to drain the air and check bleeding at the anastomosis.
CONCLUSIONS: Our case reaffirmed that careful handling is needed in all procedures, including donor nephrectomy, cannulation for transplant perfusion, vascular clamping, and anastomosis, even without any evidence of arteriosclerosis. Kidney transplant recipients commonly have atherosclerosis and hypertension, which are risk factors for arterial dissection. Early diagnosis and intervention can lead to the prevention of allograft dysfunction. Therefore, close monitoring of allograft blood flow by Doppler US during surgery should be considered.

Citation: Hori S, et al. Unexpected presentation and surgical salvage of transplant renal artery dissection caused by vascular clamping: a case report. Unexpected presentation and surgical salvage of transplant renal artery dissection caused by vascular clamping: a case report. 2020; 21:29. doi: 10.1186/s12882-020-1699-x

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/31996160/
