PMID: 32000041
Title: Comparison of stand-alone cage and cage-with-plate for monosegmental cervical fusion and impact of virtual reality in evaluating surgical results.

Abstract: OBJECTIVES: After ventral decompression of monosegmental cervical spondylotic stenosis, a stand-alone cage (SC) or cage-with-plate (CP) can be inserted for fusion. Postoperative radiological evaluation can be achieved using different imaging modalities. We retrospectively compared complications, as well as clinical and radiological outcomes for both fusion techniques, and analyzed the possible role of virtual reality (VR) in evaluating the postoperative results.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: One hundred seventeen patients were included (SC/CP: 54/63). Complications, as well as clinical and radiological outcomes of both fusion techniques were compared. Computed tomography (CT) scans were visualized via VR to measure the smallest cross-sectional area of the intervertebral neuroforamen in the lateral resection region, and to assess the degree of the intersegmental ossification.
RESULTS: There were no significant differences between the two fusion techniques regarding perioperative complication rates, fusion rates, or pain parameter (visual analogue scale (VAS) of arm pain, neck disability index). However, advantages regarding subsidence, kyphosis, and VAS of neck pain were found when using the CP versus SC. Using the VR technique, there was no significant difference between the two fusion techniques in the mean size of the cross-sectional area at the end of follow-up.
CONCLUSION: Due to the long-term advantages of CP fusion, we prefer a monosegmental cervical spinal fusion using CP. Reconstruction of postsurgical two-dimensional CT images into three-dimensional images, and the spatial and anatomical presentation in VR models, improved the evaluation of these postoperative results.

Citation: Zawy Alsofy S, et al. Comparison of stand-alone cage and cage-with-plate for monosegmental cervical fusion and impact of virtual reality in evaluating surgical results. Comparison of stand-alone cage and cage-with-plate for monosegmental cervical fusion and impact of virtual reality in evaluating surgical results. 2020; 191:105685. doi: 10.1016/j.clineuro.2020.105685

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32000041/
