PMID: 32003912
Title: Aortic valve area using computed tomography-derived correction factor to improve the validity of left ventricular outflow tract measurements.

Abstract: AIMS: Given the inherent inaccuracies stemming from the assumption that the left ventricular outflow tract (LVOT) is circular, this study aimed to improve the accuracy of transthoracic echocardiography (TTE)-based aortic valve area (AVA) calculation using continuity equation (CE) by introducing a correction factor (CF) derived from multidetector computed tomography angiography (MDCTA) images and validate it in aortic stenosis (AS) patients.
METHODS AND RESULTS: This retrospective study used MDCTA images of 400 patients for modeling and 403 TTE dataset for validation. Echocardiographic parasternal long-axis view was modeled using MDCTA, and LVOT diameter (D1) was measured. Direct planimetry of LVOT area was performed and subsequently converted into a theoretical circle. The assumed circle (D2) diameter was derived, and D2/D1 was calculated and termed as the CF. The CF was 1.13, and it improved the agreement between MDCTA- and TTE-derived LVOT areas and correlation between AVA and peak velocity, mean pressure gradient, and velocity ratio. In discordant subgroups of severe AS, the CF reclassified patients to moderate AS in 40% in the low flow (LF), low gradient (LG), and low ejection fraction (EF) group; 53% in the LF, LG, and normal EF group; and 68% in the LF, high gradient, and normal EF group.
CONCLUSIONS: CF of 1.13 derived from MDCTA improved the accuracy of TTE-derived LVOT area and AVA and improved correlation with hemodynamic variables in AS patients. Reclassification of AS patients using CF may have clinical applicability for patient selection for early intervention.

Citation: Alskaf E, et al. Aortic valve area using computed tomography-derived correction factor to improve the validity of left ventricular outflow tract measurements. Aortic valve area using computed tomography-derived correction factor to improve the validity of left ventricular outflow tract measurements. 2020; 37:196-206. doi: 10.1111/echo.14601

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32003912/
