PMID: 32017456
Title: Pre-embedded cervical circular stapled anastomosis in esophagectomy.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Mechanical anastomosis is now widely used in surgery for esophageal cancer. An anastomotic fistula is still the most dangerous complication in mechanical anastomosis, especially for patients who undergo cervical anastomosis. However, due to the high anastomosis position and limited space, conventional embedding and suspension are rarely performed. This study aimed to introduce the steps of an improved embedded method in cervical circular stapled anastomosis and evaluate its efficacy in reducing complications.
METHODS: In total, 31 patients who underwent minimally invasive esophagectomy were enrolled into the study. Pre-embedded cervical esophagogastrostomy with a circular stapler was adopted after thoracoscopic and laparoscopic esophagectomy for esophageal cancer.
RESULTS: The results of surgical duration, blood loss, mean duration of hospitalization and operation complications such as anastomotic fistula, anastomotic stenosis and gastroesophageal reflux were recorded. The operative procedure lasted between 205-300 minutes with an average of 260.3 minutes. The postoperative recovery was good, with no complications such as anastomotic fistula, anastomotic stricture and pulmonary complication, except for two cases of gastroesophageal reflux. The postoperative hospital stay was 8-14 days with an average of 10.3 days.
CONCLUSION: Our data revealed that pre-embedded cervical circular stapled anastomosis is an alternative for patients with good stomach length, which can decrease the occurrence rate of anastomotic fistula by full peripheral embedding of anastomotic stoma.
KEY POINTS: This new technique can significantly reduce the risk of anastomotic leakage. This study adds further details enabling a smooth pre-embedded procedure to be performed.

Citation: Li J, et al. Pre-embedded cervical circular stapled anastomosis in esophagectomy. Pre-embedded cervical circular stapled anastomosis in esophagectomy. 2020; 11:723-727. doi: 10.1111/1759-7714.13324

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32017456/
