PMID: 32013278
Title: Percutaneous Endoscopic Lumbar Discectomy: Indications and Complications.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Percutaneous endoscopic lumbar discectomy (PELD) often refers to percutaneous endoscopic transforaminal discectomy (PETD) and percutaneous endoscopic interlaminar discectomy (PEID). As a minimally invasive spinal procedure, PELD has gained increasing recognition for its small incision, quick recovery, short hospital stay, and equivalent clinical outcome compared to open surgery. In order to obtain satisfactory clinical efficacy, adequate consideration should be given regarding the indication of PELD. On the other hand, complications related to PELD will also significantly affect the safety and outcome of surgery.
OBJECTIVE: Our objective was to conduct a literature review of the indications and complications of PELD and to provide our experience in patient selection and solutions to complications related to PELD.
STUDY DESIGN: The study is a literature review focused on the indications and complications of PELD.
SETTING: The study is a literature review on the indications and complications of PELD.
METHODS: A comprehensive review of available literature on PELD was performed. Particular focus was given to the development of indications and prevention of complications. The literature was searched in PubMed database, and key words were set as "percutaneous endoscopic lumbar discectomy", "percutaneous endoscopic transforaminal discectomy", "percutaneous endoscopic interlaminar discectomy", "PELD", "PETD", "PEID", "YESS" and "TESSYS".
RESULTS: PELD is an effective and safe treatment for lumbar disc herniation, lumbar spinal stenosis, recurrent lumbar disc herniation, and other lumbar diseases. Complications related to PELD include dural tear, nerve root injury, recurrence, and so on.
LIMITATIONS: Some results drawn in this review are based on retrospective study or small sample size. Studies of larger sample size and more multicenter, randomized controlled trials should be conducted to evaluate the clinical efficacy and safety of PELD.
CONCLUSIONS: PELD is a promising surgical technique for lumbar diseases. Proper patient selection, excellent surgical skills, and rich experience are required for satisfactory outcomes.
KEY WORDS: Complications, indications, minimally invasive spine surgery, PELD.

Citation: Pan M, et al. Percutaneous Endoscopic Lumbar Discectomy: Indications and Complications. Percutaneous Endoscopic Lumbar Discectomy: Indications and Complications. 2020; 23:49-56.

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32013278/
