PMID: 32010317
Title: Efficacy of percutaneous transforaminal endoscopic decompression treatment for degenerative lumbar spondylolisthesis with spinal stenosis in elderly patients.

Abstract: The efficacy of fusion combined with decompression for the treatment of spinal stenosis with degenerative lumbar spondylolisthesis (DLS) has been debated. Percutaneous transforaminal endoscopic decompression (PTED) under local anesthesia is an ultra-minimally invasive procedure. The present study aimed to evaluate whether PTED is an effective alternative therapy for spinal stenosis associated with DLS in elderly patients. PTED was performed in elderly patients exhibiting lumbar stenosis and low-grade (Meyerding grades I and II) DLS; these patients also exhibited leg-dominant symptoms and had tolerable or absent mechanical back pain. Administration of general anesthesia may be considerably hazardous in patients when combined with comorbid conditions that result from aging. Therefore, the present procedure was performed under local anesthesia. No obvious radiographic lumbar intervertebral instability was identified prior to surgery. Pre- and post-operative visual analogue scale (VAS) score, Oswestry Disability Index (ODI) and walking distance data were collected. The clinical global outcomes following surgery were evaluated using modified MacNab criteria. A total of 18 elderly patients underwent surgery using PTED techniques. The mean follow-up time was 27.7 months (range, 24-33 months) and the mean estimated blood loss was 18.33 ml (range, 10-35 ml). The mean pre-operative ODI, VAS score of the back and VAS score of the leg were 68.2±6.5, 2.8±1.4 and 6.6±1.2, respectively. All average scores improved post-operatively to 31.7±5.2, 1.5±0.6 and 1.7±0.8, respectively, at the latest follow-up. A statistically significant improvement was observed for all scores at 1 month and that the scores remained relatively stable after that. According to modified MacNab criteria, the good-to-excellent rate was 83.3%. Only 1 patient required micro-decompression surgery due to poor rating. The present study indicated that PTED may be an effective alternative therapeutic option for elderly patients with low-grade DLS associated with spinal stenosis. However, PTED techniques continue to evolve and further follow-up studies are required to determine the long-term outcomes of this treatment technique.

Citation: Li XF, et al. Efficacy of percutaneous transforaminal endoscopic decompression treatment for degenerative lumbar spondylolisthesis with spinal stenosis in elderly patients. Efficacy of percutaneous transforaminal endoscopic decompression treatment for degenerative lumbar spondylolisthesis with spinal stenosis in elderly patients. 2020; 19:1417-1424. doi: 10.3892/etm.2019.8337

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32010317/
