PMID: 32011442
Title: Surgical treatments for post-intubation laryngotracheal stenosis in patients with central nervous system injuries.

Abstract: Post-intubation laryngotracheal stenosis is a complication commonly encountered in patients with central nervous system (CNS) injuries, often preventing decannulation. To date, no data is available in the literature focusing on this issue. Our objective was to describe surgical treatments for laryngotracheal stenosis and discuss factors associated with successful decannulation in this group of patients.Medical records of patients with CNS injury who received tracheal surgeries at our institution between 2009 and 2016 were retrospectively collected and analyzed.Data on 124 surgeries in 62 patients with CNS injury were collected. The total complication rate was 20.9% with no surgical mortality. The decannulation success rate was 85.5%. Argon laser surgeries (48), diode laser surgeries (22), tracheal resection and reconstructions (R&R) (9), and tracheal T-tube placements (67) were performed. The average times from the first bronchoscopy check up to surgery and surgery to decannulation were 0.7 and 8.2 months, accordingly. The mean post-decannulation follow-up time was 13.5 months. A shift from the use of rigid bronchoscopy in the initial surgeries to laryngeal mask in the latter surgeries yielded an average decrease of 3 days in hospital length of stay (LOS). A change from initial rigid bronchoscopic core out procedures and argon laser to interventional flexible bronchoscopic resections with diode laser also decreased LOS significantly.Surgical treatments for patients with CNS injury and laryngotracheal stenosis can be safely performed with low mortality, acceptable complications, and a high decannulation success rate. The majority of patients with laryngotracheal stenosis can be managed with laser endoscopic surgeries, though tracheal R&R might still be required in selected cases. The use of laryngeal mask to secure the airway and diode laser in the intra-luminal resections improved the surgical outcome and was therefore recommended for these patients suffering from post-intubation laryngotracheal stenosis.

Citation: Tsai SC and Lin FC. Surgical treatments for post-intubation laryngotracheal stenosis in patients with central nervous system injuries. Surgical treatments for post-intubation laryngotracheal stenosis in patients with central nervous system injuries. 2020; 99:e18628. doi: 10.1097/MD.0000000000018628

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32011442/
