PMID: 32011400
Title: The transmanubrial osteomuscular-sparing approach: a valuable adjunct to the head and neck surgical armamentarium.

Abstract: PURPOSE OF REVIEW: To describe and popularize the transmanubrial osteomuscular-sparing approach (TOSA) outside its original thoracic surgical field of application, based on the consideration that it could be of interest for the management of a number of head and neck cases in both elective and emergent scenarios.
RECENT FINDINGS: The main advantages of TOSA compared with transclavicular techniques are its superb exposure of anatomic structures located at the level of the cervicothoracic junction, and superior postoperative aesthetic and functional outcomes. Recently, a number of studies have described the association of TOSA with other minimally invasive approaches, such as video-assisted thoracoscopic surgery and robotic hybrid approaches, with the aim of avoiding association of the transmanubrial route with anterior/posterior thoracotomies, or more extended surgeries, such as the trapdoor or hemiclamshell procedures.
SUMMARY: TOSA, even though originally conceived to reduce the morbidity ensuing from classic transclavicular approaches for management of Pancoast tumors, may well play an important role in a number of head and neck surgical conditions, including those related to mediastinal goiter and thyroid cancer, management of stenosis and lesions of the thoracic trachea and esophagus, treatment of the junction between innominate, internal jugular, and subclavian veins, epiaortic arteries, thoracic duct, brachial plexus, and low sympathetic chain. Whenever comprehensive control of vascular and nonvascular structures of the upper mediastinal inlet is required, TOSA should be planned and performed by combining the expertise of cooperating professionals.

Citation: Piazza C, et al. The transmanubrial osteomuscular-sparing approach: a valuable adjunct to the head and neck surgical armamentarium. The transmanubrial osteomuscular-sparing approach: a valuable adjunct to the head and neck surgical armamentarium. 2020; 28:61-67. doi: 10.1097/MOO.0000000000000605

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32011400/
