PMID: 32019726
Title: The impact of pre-operative symptoms on carotid endarterectomy Outcomes: Analysis of the ACS-NSQIP carotid endarterectomy database.

Abstract: Carotid artery stenosis accounts for up to 20% of ischemic strokes. Since the 1950 s, one of the primary surgical treatment for this condition is carotid endarterectomy (CEA). Because of improvement of medical therapy for carotid artery atherosclerosis and the increased use of carotid artery stents, CEA is indicated if the risk of stroke and death are low. The goal of this study is to characterize the impact of pre-operative stroke and stroke risk factors on post-operative CEA patient outcomes, using the American College of Surgeons National Surgical Quality Improvement Program (ACS-NSQIP) Targeted Vascular Module on CEA. Using the Targeted Vascular Module of the ACS-NSQIP, 22,116 patients who underwent CEA were identified from 2011 to 2016. Univariate analysis and multivariable logistic regression analyses were conducted to identify significant risk factors that predispose patients to stroke. Patients with pre-operative stroke comprise 42.1% of the group, with post-operative stroke being the second most common complication (2.1%). Pre-operative stroke patients were also at a higher risk for transient ischemic attacks, post-operative restenosis, post-operative distal embolization, and other complications. Patients with pre-operative risk factors, including stroke or stroke-like symptoms, high risk physiologic factors, high risk anatomic factors, and contralateral internal carotid artery stenosis were at a higher risk of developing post-operative stroke and other complications. Patients with these pre-operative risk factors should be closely monitored for post-operative complications in an effort to improve patient outcomes.

Citation: Shah VS, et al. The impact of pre-operative symptoms on carotid endarterectomy Outcomes: Analysis of the ACS-NSQIP carotid endarterectomy database. The impact of pre-operative symptoms on carotid endarterectomy Outcomes: Analysis of the ACS-NSQIP carotid endarterectomy database. 2020; 73:51-56. doi: 10.1016/j.jocn.2020.01.077

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32019726/
