PMID: 32011670
Title: Risk of perioperative coronary stent stenosis or occlusion in patients with previous percutaneous coronary intervention undergoing coronary artery bypass grafting surgery.

Abstract: OBJECTIVES: There is an ongoing discussion about how to treat coronary stents during bypass surgery: Should patent stents be left alone and the stented vessels be ungrafted, or should every stented coronary artery receive a bypass graft? This study aims to determine the relevance of perioperative stent stenosis or occlusion on postoperative outcomes up to 3 years postoperatively.
METHODS: Patients undergoing coronary artery bypass grafting surgery (CABG) (±concomitant procedures) with previous percutaneous coronary intervention from 4 centres were prospectively included in this observatory study between April 2015 and June 2017. A coronary angiography was conducted between the fifth and seventh postoperative days. The preoperative and postoperative angiograms were assessed in a core laboratory, assessing the patencies of coronary stents and bypass grafts. The core lab investigators were blinded to the patients' characteristics and perioperative course.
RESULTS: A total of 107 patients were included in the study. In the postoperative coronary angiography, 265 bypass grafts and 189 coronary stents were examined angiographically. Ninety-seven percent of preoperatively patent stents remained patent. New coronary stent stenoses were observed in 5 patients (4.7%). All 5 patients were asymptomatic and managed conservatively. Bypass stenoses were observed in 12 patients (11%), of whom were managed conservatively, 4 underwent percutaneous coronary intervention and 1 underwent redo-CABG. Two years postoperatively, 97% of patients were alive. Patients with new stent stenosis tended to have a better survival compared with patients with bypass stenosis (100% vs 73%; P = 0.09) up to 3 years postoperatively.
CONCLUSIONS: Perioperative coronary stent stenosis occurs rarely. It is safe to leave a patently stented coronary vessel without bypass grafting.

Citation: Grieshaber P, et al. Risk of perioperative coronary stent stenosis or occlusion in patients with previous percutaneous coronary intervention undergoing coronary artery bypass grafting surgery. Risk of perioperative coronary stent stenosis or occlusion in patients with previous percutaneous coronary intervention undergoing coronary artery bypass grafting surgery. 2020; 57:1122-1129. doi: 10.1093/ejcts/ezaa003

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32011670/
