PMID: 32028851
Title: Modified one-session endovascular treatment for deep venous thrombosis with high risk of pulmonary embolism: Short-term outcomes.

Abstract: OBJECTIVES: To evaluate the safety and short-term outcomes of the modified one-session endovascular treatment with inferior vena cava filter placement and retrieval in one stage for the treatment of acute lower extremity deep vein thrombosis.
METHOD: Twenty-three patients with unilateral acute lower extremity deep vein thrombosis underwent modified one-session endovascular treatments, which were performed in one stage. Inferior vena cava filter placement without detachment, thrombectomy, and inferior vena cava filter retrieval were performed in one stage. Angioplasty and stent implantation were performed for patients with iliac vein stenosis. Venography was performed to identify the clearance of the thrombus. Color Doppler ultrasound and/or venography were conducted during the follow-up.
RESULTS: A total of 20/23 (87%) patients with thrombus removal rate >90% successfully underwent modified one-session endovascular treatment. inferior vena cava filters were detached in 3/23 (13%) patients achieving 50%-90% thrombus removal rate. Twenty-one iliac vein stents were implanted in 21/23 (91%) patients with iliac vein stenosis. After treatment, the differences in the circumferences of the affected limb and the healthy limb both significantly decreased. No procedure-related death, symptomatic pulmonary embolism, or major bleeding occurred. During the 12-25 months of follow-up, iliac vein stents and lower extremity veins maintained patent.
CONCLUSIONS: The modified one-session endovascular treatment with one-stage inferior vena cava filter placement and retrieval might be safe for the treatment of acute lower extremity deep vein thrombosis, and the early clinical outcomes are satisfactory. Placing and retrieving an inferior vena cava filter in one session could safeguard the endovascular interventions as well as reduce the filter-related complications associated with long dwelling times.

Citation: Li W, et al. Modified one-session endovascular treatment for deep venous thrombosis with high risk of pulmonary embolism: Short-term outcomes. Modified one-session endovascular treatment for deep venous thrombosis with high risk of pulmonary embolism: Short-term outcomes. 2020; 35:524-532. doi: 10.1177/0268355520904270

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32028851/
