PMID: 32024405
Title: Inter-reader agreement of interpretation of radiological course of bile duct changes between serial follow-up magnetic resonance imaging/3D magnetic resonance cholangiopancreatography of patients with primary sclerosing cholangitis.

Abstract: Objectives: Interpretation of MRI/MRCP in primary sclerosing cholangitis (PSC) at a single time point has low inter-reader agreement. Agreement of interpretation of the dynamic course of duct changes in follow-up MRI/MRCP is of clinical importance but remains unknown. Our aims are therefore to assess the inter-reader agreement of interpretation of the course of duct changes in PSC and investigate if elimination of 3 D MRCP affects inter-reader agreement.Materials and Methods: We studied 40 consecutive PSC-patients who underwent two liver MRI/MRCPs at two time points. Two readers independently evaluated the course of duct changes between the two time points in two imaging sets, one with and one without 3 D MRCP. The intraclass correlation coefficient (ICC) was calculated for evaluation of inter-reader and intra-reader agreement between the two time points and two imaging sets accordingly.Results: Inter-reader agreement of the interpretation of the course of duct changes between the two time points was poor (ICC up to 0.224). Elimination of 3 D MRCP neither improved inter-reader agreement which was again poor (ICC up to 0.26) nor did it change considerably the way readers interpret the course of ducts changes (ICC for intra-reader agreement between 0.809 and 0.978).Conclusions: Inter-reader agreement of the interpretation of radiological course of duct changes is poor in serial follow-up MRI/MRCP of PSC-patients. Elimination of 3 D MRCP does not increase inter-reader agreement but maintains an excellent intra-reader agreement for the interpretation of the dynamic course of bile duct changes.Key pointsInter-reader agreement of interpretation of radiological course of bile duct changes between serial follow-up MRI/MRCP examinations of patients with PSC is poor.Absence of 3D MRCP does not affect considerably the way readers interpret the radiological course of bile ducts changes.When MRCP is absent or of low quality, utilization of other sequences seems to be helpful as an alternative for bile duct evaluation.

Citation: Grigoriadis A, et al. Inter-reader agreement of interpretation of radiological course of bile duct changes between serial follow-up magnetic resonance imaging/3D magnetic resonance cholangiopancreatography of patients with primary sclerosing cholangitis. Inter-reader agreement of interpretation of radiological course of bile duct changes between serial follow-up magnetic resonance imaging/3D magnetic resonance cholangiopancreatography of patients with primary sclerosing cholangitis. 2020; 55:228-235. doi: 10.1080/00365521.2020.1720281

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32024405/
