PMID: 32037670
Title: Percutaneous endoluminal anatomical bypass for patients with external iliac artery occlusion after failed conventional endovascular recanalization.

Abstract: Endovascular therapy, an established first-line treatment for isolated iliac artery (IA) occlusion (IAO), may be of limited use in challenging lesions. We describe a novel percutaneous endoluminal anatomical bypass (PEApass) technique for uncrossable external IA (EIA) occlusion. A 70-year-old man on hemodialysis with a history of colostomy presented with chronic limb-threatening ischemia due to a left EIA with below-the-knee occlusions. During a previous colostomy, the left EIA was accidentally ligated. Conventional endovascular recanalization for the ligated EIA failed, and a femoral-femoral bypass and below-knee angioplasty were performed as alternative therapy. Two weeks later, surgical site infection developed at both anastomosis sites. PEApass was performed prior to removing the infected graft. An arteriovenous fistula (AVF) in the distal location was created using a re-entry device, and its proximal location was created using a 0.014-in. penetration guidewire, which was snared on the inside of the iliac vein (IV) using a retrograde snare. The proximal and distal sections of the IA were connected using an 8.0-mm × 100-mm stent graft implanted through the IV. A final angiogram indicated that flow to the occluded IA was completely restored without complications. Following the PEApass, the infected graft was removed. Complete wound healing was achieved within approximately 1 month. This innovative PEApass procedure is feasible and could be an alternative procedure for patients with uncrossable IAO.

Citation: Nakama T, et al. Percutaneous endoluminal anatomical bypass for patients with external iliac artery occlusion after failed conventional endovascular recanalization. Percutaneous endoluminal anatomical bypass for patients with external iliac artery occlusion after failed conventional endovascular recanalization. 2020; 95:1320-1326. doi: 10.1002/ccd.28769

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32037670/
