PMID: 32034270
Title: Analysis of Optic Chiasmal Compression Caused by Brain Tumors Using Optical Coherence Tomography Angiography.

Abstract: We have quantitatively evaluated the macular and peripapillary microvascular changes in eyes with chiasmal compression caused by brain tumors compared with healthy control eyes using optical coherence tomography angiography (OCT-A) and correlated them with other ocular parameters. This cross-sectional study involved the analysis of 36 eyes of 36 patients with chiasmal compression and age and refractive error-matched 35 healthy control eyes. OCT-A was used to generate microvascular images of the superficial and deep retinal capillary plexus (SRCP, DRCP) and the radial peripapillary capillary (RPC) segment in the macula and peripapillary areas. Automated segmentation and vessel density measurements facilitated the analysis of each layer. Macular OCT-A analysis revealed a significant reduction in vessel density in the SRCP (P = 0.004) of the nasal quadrant (P < 0.001) and in the same quadrant of the DRCP (P = 0.019) in the eyes with chiasmal compression compared with the control eyes. The RPC segment vessel density has also been significantly reduced in the eyes with chiasmal compression (P < 0.001). The RPC segment and the SRCP vessel densities were correlated with the peripapillary retinal nerve fiber layer and the ganglion cell layer complex thicknesses. The RPC segment and the nasal quadrant SRCP and the DRCP vessel densities were correlated with visual field defect. Significant microvascular alterations have been detected in the eyes with chiasmal compression compared with the control eyes. This study confirmed that chiasmal compression caused by brain tumors not only induced a loss of ganglion cells but also resulted in intra-retinal microvascular changes.

Citation: Lee GI, et al. Analysis of Optic Chiasmal Compression Caused by Brain Tumors Using Optical Coherence Tomography Angiography. Analysis of Optic Chiasmal Compression Caused by Brain Tumors Using Optical Coherence Tomography Angiography. 2020; 10:2088. doi: 10.1038/s41598-020-59158-1

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32034270/
