PMID: 32031309
Title: Sialographic analysis of parotid ductal abnormalities associated with Sjogren's syndrome.

Abstract: OBJECTIVES: To analyze the location and degree of parotid ductal abnormalities associated with Sjogren's syndrome (SS) and to correlate findings with the duration of the disease. To develop a classification system based on contemporary sialography techniques and employ the system to grade findings on sialograms. To assess the role for therapeutic intervention in patients with SS.
METHODS: Retrospective chart review of a consecutive series of 337 sialograms done by the senior investigator over a 10-year period identified 26 sialograms in patients who met the criteria for SS as defined by the American-European Consensus Group (2002). A classification system was developed to grade the degree of ductal abnormalities identified on the sialograms. Individual, initial blinded review of these sialograms was performed by two head and neck radiologists to identify and grade abnormalities. Radiographic findings were correlated with patient history including symptom duration.
RESULTS: All patients with SS had stenoses within the ductal system. About 73.1% of patients had stenoses in each branch of the ductal system (primary, secondary, and tertiary ducts). In 19% of patients, the main duct was of normal caliber despite the presence of stenosis in the more proximal ducts (secondary and tertiary ducts). Peripheral (proximal) duct dilation was characterized among those affected in patterns classified as destructive (34.6%), cavitary (26.9%), globular (11.5%), or punctate (11.5%). A statistically significant positive correlation (p = .0360) was identified between symptom duration and degree of main ductal stenosis.
CONCLUSION: Sialography may be useful to objectively assess the degree of parotid ductal damage in SS employing a newly proposed classification system. This assessment may assist clinicians in tailoring management to selectively include ductal dilation.

Citation: Foggia MJ, et al. Sialographic analysis of parotid ductal abnormalities associated with Sjogren's syndrome. Sialographic analysis of parotid ductal abnormalities associated with Sjogren's syndrome. 2020; 26:912-919. doi: 10.1111/odi.13298

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32031309/
