PMID: 32033871
Title: Intra-Operative Hypotension is a Risk Factor for Post-operative Silent Brain Ischaemia in Patients With Pre-operative Hypertension Undergoing Carotid Endarterectomy.

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: Intra-operative haemodynamic instability during carotid endarterectomy (CEA) has been associated with an increased risk of procedural stroke. Diffusion weighted imaging (DWI) lesions have been proposed as a surrogate marker for peri-operative silent cerebral ischaemia. This study aimed to investigate the relationship between peri-operative blood pressure (BP) and presence of post-operative DWI lesions in patients undergoing CEA.
METHODS: A retrospective analysis was performed based on patients with symptomatic CEA included in the MRI substudy of the International Carotid Stenting Study. Relative intra-operative hypotension was defined as a decrease of intra-operative systolic BP ≥ 20% compared with pre-operative ('baseline') BP, absolute hypotension was defined as a drop in systolic BP < 80  mmHg. The primary endpoint was the presence of any new DWI lesions on post-operative MRI (DWI positive). The occurrence and duration of intra-operative hypotension was compared between DWI positive and DWI negative patients as was the magnitude of the difference between pre- and intra-operative BP.
RESULTS: Fifty-five patients with symptomatic CEA were included, of whom eight were DWI positive. DWI positive patients had a significantly higher baseline systolic (186 ± 31 vs. 158 ± 27 mmHg, p = .011) and diastolic BP (95 ± 15 vs. 84 ± 13 mmHg, p = .046) compared with DWI negative patients. Other pre-operative characteristics did not differ. Relative intra-operative hypotension compared with baseline occurred in 53/55 patients (median duration 34 min; range 0-174). Duration of hypotension did not differ significantly between the groups (p = .088). Mean systolic intra-operative BP compared with baseline revealed a larger drop in BP (-37 ± 29 mmHg) in DWI positive compared with DWI negative patients (-14 ± 26 mmHg, p = .024). Absolute intra-operative systolic BP values did not differ between the groups.
CONCLUSION: In this exploratory study, high pre-operative BP and a larger drop of intra-operative BP were associated with peri-procedural cerebral ischaemia as documented with DWI. These results call for confirmation in an adequately sized prospective study, as they suggest important consequences for peri-operative haemodynamic management in carotid revascularisation.

Citation: Rots ML, et al. Intra-Operative Hypotension is a Risk Factor for Post-operative Silent Brain Ischaemia in Patients With Pre-operative Hypertension Undergoing Carotid Endarterectomy. Intra-Operative Hypotension is a Risk Factor for Post-operative Silent Brain Ischaemia in Patients With Pre-operative Hypertension Undergoing Carotid Endarterectomy. 2020; 59:526-534. doi: 10.1016/j.ejvs.2020.01.007

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32033871/
