PMID: 32043019
Title: Celastrol Alleviates Aortic Valve Calcification Via Inhibition of NADPH Oxidase 2 in Valvular Interstitial Cells.

Abstract: This study sought to investigate whether reactive oxygen species (ROS)-generating reduced nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate oxidase 2 (Nox2) contributes to calcific aortic valve disease (CAVD) or whether celastrol, a natural Nox2 inhibitor, may provide potential therapeutic target for CAVD. CAVD is an active and cellular-driven fibrocalcific process characterized by differentiation of aortic valvular interstitial cells (AVICs) toward an osteogenic-like phenotype. ROS levels increase in calcified aortic valves, while the sources of ROS and their roles in the pathogenesis of CAVD are elusive. The roles of Nox2 and the effects of celastrol were studied using cultured porcine AVICs in vitro and a rabbit CAVD model in vivo. Nox2 proteins were significantly upregulated in human aortic valves with CAVD. In vitro, Nox2 was markedly induced upon stimulation of AVICs with osteogenic medium, along with the increases in ROS production and calcium nodule formation. Celastrol significantly decreased calcium deposition of AVICs by 35%, with a reduction of ROS generation. Knockdown of endogenous Nox2 substantially suppressed AVIC calcification by 39%, the inhibitory effect being similar to celastrol treatment. Mechanistically, either celastrol treatment or knockdown of Nox2 significantly inhibited glycogen synthase kinase 3 beta/β-catenin signaling, leading to attenuation of fibrogenic and osteogenic responses of AVICs. In a rabbit CAVD model, administration of celastrol significantly reduced aortic valve ROS production, fibrosis, calcification, and severity of aortic stenosis, with less left ventricular dilatation and better preserved contractile function. Upregulation of Nox2 is critically involved in CAVD. Celastrol is effective to alleviate CAVD, likely through the inhibition of Nox2-mediated glycogen synthase kinase 3 beta/β-catenin pathway in AVICs.

Citation: Liu H, et al. Celastrol Alleviates Aortic Valve Calcification Via Inhibition of NADPH Oxidase 2 in Valvular Interstitial Cells. Celastrol Alleviates Aortic Valve Calcification Via Inhibition of NADPH Oxidase 2 in Valvular Interstitial Cells. 2020; 5:35-49. doi: 10.1016/j.jacbts.2019.10.004

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32043019/
