PMID: 32045725
Title: Initial Experience with Exoscopic-Based Intraoperative Indocyanine Green Fluorescence Video Angiography in Cerebrovascular Surgery: A Preliminary Case Series Showing Feasibility, Safety, and Next-Generation Handheld Form-Factor.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Native vessel patency and residual lesion are primary sources of morbidity in cerebrovascular surgery (CVS) that require real-time visualization to inform surgical judgment, as is available in endovascular procedures. Micro Doppler and microscopy-based indocyanine green (ICG) fluorescence are promising evolutions compared with intraoperative angiography (IA), and digital subtraction angiography (DSA) remains the gold standard. Exoscopic visualization in CVS is emerging; however, the feasibility of exoscopic-based ICG (ICG-E) for CVS has not yet been reported. To objective of the study was to provide initial experience with ICG-E video angiography in CVS.
METHODS: Retrospective study in which 2 ICG-E form-factors (exoscopic-coupled or self-contained handheld imager) were used to determine native vessel patency and residual and compared with DSA.
RESULTS: Eleven patients (8 aneurysms, 3 arteriovenous malformations [AVMs]) were included. ICG-E was feasible in all, providing real-time information leading to operative decisions affecting surgical judgment. For aneurysms, discordance of IA with ICG-E and DSA was 12%. In 1 patient, IA showed non-flow-restrictive branch stenosis; however, both ICG and DSA showed patency. All AVMs were fully obliterated, with 100% concordance among all modalities. ICG averaged 4.2 mg dose/run (1-4 doses/case); 1.25 mg was the lowest dose allowing visualization with no advantage with escalating dosages. There were no intraoperative/perioperative complications.
CONCLUSIONS: In this preliminary study, ICG-E was safe and feasible, providing real-time visualization informing surgical decision making. The last 4 cases (2 aneurysms and 2 AVMs) evolved toward a portable handheld device, a readily accessible real-time modality providing contextual anatomic and flow visualization. Larger studies are needed to assess broader safety, dose escalation, and efficacy.

Citation: Smithee W, et al. Initial Experience with Exoscopic-Based Intraoperative Indocyanine Green Fluorescence Video Angiography in Cerebrovascular Surgery: A Preliminary Case Series Showing Feasibility, Safety, and Next-Generation Handheld Form-Factor. Initial Experience with Exoscopic-Based Intraoperative Indocyanine Green Fluorescence Video Angiography in Cerebrovascular Surgery: A Preliminary Case Series Showing Feasibility, Safety, and Next-Generation Handheld Form-Factor. 2020; 138:e82-e94. doi: 10.1016/j.wneu.2020.01.244

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32045725/
