PMID: 32049626
Title: The expression of platelet-derived growth factor receptor alpha-positive cells in the stenotic tissue of ureteropelvic junction obstruction in children .

Abstract: AIM: By observing the expression and distribution of platelet-derived growth factor receptor α-positive (PDGFRα+) cells in ureteropelvic junction obstruction (UPJO), to explore their role in the pathogenesis of children with congenital hydronephrosis.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: The control group involved specimens of the normal ureter (nephrectomy for tumor; n = 10), and the UPJO group contained specimens of ureteropelvic junction (UPJ) segment excised during pyeloplasty (n = 30). The specimens were investigated using immunofluorescence for the expression and distribution of PDGFRα+ cells in each group by light microscopy with computerized image analysis. Real-time PCR (RT-PCR) was used to study PDGFRα gene expression levels. In addition, small conductance calcium-activated potassium channel 3 (SK3) and closely associated cells consisting of smooth muscle cells (SMCs), interstitial cells of Cajal (ICCs), and nerve fibers were investigated.
RESULTS: PDGFRα+ cells were in close proximity to SMCs, ICCs, and nerve fibers. PDGFRα+ cells expressed SK3 channels, which are found to regulate purinergic inhibitory neurotransmission in SMCs. Regarding the expression of PDGFRα+ cells no significant difference was seen between the two groups, while the expression of SK3 channels in PDGFRα+ cells was significantly decreased in the UPJO group versus the control group.
CONCLUSION: This study identified the expression of PDGFRα+ cells in the human UPJ. Our results demonstrate the expression of SK3 channels in PDGFRα+ cells was decreased in UPJO, and SK3 channels may be involved in the pathogenesis of UPJO by perturbing the UPJ peristalsis.

Citation: Wang T, et al. The expression of platelet-derived growth factor receptor alpha-positive cells in the stenotic tissue of ureteropelvic junction obstruction in children . The expression of platelet-derived growth factor receptor alpha-positive cells in the stenotic tissue of ureteropelvic junction obstruction in children . 2020; 93:195-202. doi: 10.5414/CN110009

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32049626/
