PMID: 32051517
Title: Imaging and Pathological Features of Idiopathic Portal Hypertension and Differential Diagnosis from Liver Cirrhosis.

Abstract: Idiopathic portal hypertension (IPH) mimics liver cirrhosis in many aspects, and no efficient imaging method to differentiate the two diseases has been reported to date. In this study, the imaging and pathological characteristics were analysed for both IPH and cirrhosis. From January 2015 to March 2019, ultrasound, computed tomography (CT) and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) images and pathological results from 16 IPH and 16 liver cirrhosis patients, as well as imaging results of 16 normal patients as a control group, were retrospectively reviewed. The age of the patients was 39 ± 20 years. There was a significant difference in the mean lumen diameter, wall thickness and ratio of thickness to diameter between the IPH and liver cirrhosis patients in the main and sagittal portal veins (P < 0.05), as well as in the lumen diameter and ratio of thickness to diameter between the IPH and liver cirrhosis patients in the Segment 3 (S3) portal vein (P < 0.05). In IPH patients, the main imaging changes were portal vein wall thickening, stenosis or occlusion, a low enhancement area along the portal vein in the delay phase in contrast-enhanced imaging, and a non-homogeneous change in T1WI. The corresponding pathological changes included interlobular vein thickening, stenosis, occlusion, portal area fibrosis, and atrophy or apoptosis of hepatocytes. The main imaging characteristic of liver cirrhosis was a nodular change in T1WI, and the related pathological change was pseudolobule formation. The imaging characteristics of IPH include thickening of the portal vein vascular wall, stenosis of the portal vein lumen and the absence of diffuse cirrhosis-like nodules. These imaging features have a definite pathological basis and could help make differential diagnoses between IPH and cirrhosis.

Citation: Zhao ZL, et al. Imaging and Pathological Features of Idiopathic Portal Hypertension and Differential Diagnosis from Liver Cirrhosis. Imaging and Pathological Features of Idiopathic Portal Hypertension and Differential Diagnosis from Liver Cirrhosis. 2020; 10:2473. doi: 10.1038/s41598-020-59286-8

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32051517/
