PMID: 32058923
Title: The effect of heart rate, vessel angulation and acquisition protocol on the estimation accuracy of calcified artery stenosis in dual energy cardiac CT: A phantom study.

Abstract: PURPOSE: To investigate the effects of heart beat rate (bpm), vessel angulation and acquisition protocol on the estimation accuracy of calcified stenosis using a dual-energy CT scanner.
METHODS: A thorax semi-anthropomorphic phantom coupled with a motion simulator and a vessel phantom representing a 50% coronary artery calcified stenosis, were used. Electrocardiograph (ECG)-synchronized acquisitions were performed at different bpms. Acquisitions were performed using A, B, and C single-energy and D dual-energy protocols. Protocol A was prospective ECG-triggered axial and protocols B and C were retrospective single- and two-segment reconstruction ECG-gated helical acquisitions. Protocol D was prospective ECG-triggered axial acquisition. The vessel phantom was placed at two angulations relative to z-axis. Images were reconstructed using all available kernels with iterative reconstruction. Stenosis-percentage was estimated using the CT vendor's vessel analysis tool. Effective dose (ED) was estimated using the dose-length product method.
RESULTS: In protocols A, B, and C, measured Stenosis-percentage increased with bpm. Stenosis-percentage estimate ranged from 56.8% at 40 bpm to 62.6% at 100 bpm. In protocol D, Stenosis-percentage ranged from 59.3% at 40 bpm to 54.8% at 80 bpm. Stenosis-percentage was overestimated on respect to the nominal value in most kernels. The detail kernel exhibited the highest accuracy. Stenosis-percentage was not affected by the vessel angulation. ED for protocols A, B, C, and D was 2.4 mSv, 5.1 mSv, 5.5 mSv, and 2.8 mSv, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: Use of the dual-energy cardiac CT examination protocol along with the detail kernel is recommended for a more accurate assessment of Stenosis-percentage.

Citation: Papadakis AE, et al. The effect of heart rate, vessel angulation and acquisition protocol on the estimation accuracy of calcified artery stenosis in dual energy cardiac CT: A phantom study. The effect of heart rate, vessel angulation and acquisition protocol on the estimation accuracy of calcified artery stenosis in dual energy cardiac CT: A phantom study. 2020; 70:208-215. doi: 10.1016/j.ejmp.2020.02.004

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32058923/
