PMID: 32057439
Title: Endoscopic incisional therapy and other novel strategies for effective treatment of congenital esophageal stenosis.

Abstract: BACKGROUND & AIMS: Congenital esophageal stenosis (CES) is an inborn condition of the esophagus that can be refractory to endoscopic dilation. Surgical intervention is not curative, with patients experiencing frequent ongoing need for therapy for anastomotic stricture postoperatively. We hypothesized that novel methods of endoscopic CES management including endoscopic incisional therapy (EIT) would lead to less surgical intervention.
METHODS: We retrospectively reviewed the medical records of all patients with CES treated by our tertiary care center who had at least one endoscopy between July 2007 and July 2019. Statistical comparison of cohorts who underwent advanced endoscopic therapy involving EIT versus traditional endoscopic therapy with balloon dilation was performed. Primary outcome measure was need for surgical intervention.
RESULTS: Thirty-six patients with CES met inclusion criteria. Thirty-four ever had at least one endoscopic intervention such as balloon dilation, steroid injection, stenting, and/or endoscopic incisional therapy (EIT) at their CES. Esophageal vacuum assisted closure (EVAC) was used for treatment or prevention of esophageal leak. Odds of surgical intervention were significantly lower in the group who received therapeutic endoscopy with EIT (odds ratio (OR) 0.1; p = 0.007). Clinical feeding outcomes were similar in the endoscopic and surgical management groups. Odds of complications after therapeutic endoscopies involving EIT were significantly greater than those without EIT (odds ratio 6.39; 95% confidence interval (2.34, 17.44); p < 0.001), though our rates of esophageal leak significantly decreased over time as our use of EVAC increased (Spearman's ρ = -0.884; p = 0.004).
CONCLUSION: Complementary endoscopic techniques such as EIT broaden the toolbox of the treating physician and may allow for avoidance of surgery in CES.
LEVEL OF EVIDENCE: Level III.

Citation: Yasuda JL, et al. Endoscopic incisional therapy and other novel strategies for effective treatment of congenital esophageal stenosis. Endoscopic incisional therapy and other novel strategies for effective treatment of congenital esophageal stenosis. 2020; 55:2342-2347. doi: 10.1016/j.jpedsurg.2020.01.013

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32057439/
