PMID: 32058108
Title: Spontaneous Spinal Epidural Hematoma After Normal Spontaneous Delivery with Epidural Analgesia: Case Report and Literature Review.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Pregnancy is a known risk factor for spontaneous spinal epidural hematoma. During cesarean section or vaginal delivery, the unstable hemodynamic status that may occur owing to fluctuation of intra-abdominal pressure increases the possibility of spontaneous spinal epidural hematoma. During labor and the postpartum period, neurologic symptoms may be masked by labor pain or anesthesia block, which makes early diagnosis difficult, especially in the obstetric clinic without a neurologist or neurosurgeon.
CASE DESCRIPTION: A 28-year-old woman who had a normal spontaneous delivery under epidural anesthesia developed bilateral lower limb flaccid paralysis and loss of sensation 12.5 hours after delivery. Magnetic resonance imaging showed a 5.2 × 0.9 × 2 cm spinal epidural hematoma with severe spinal cord stenosis at the T2-T5 level with no evidence of a vascular anomaly. After emergent evacuation of the spinal epidural hematoma, lower limb muscle power improved from 0/5 to 1/5, and sensation gradually returned to bilateral lower limbs 22 days postoperatively. Deep vein thrombosis developed at 35 days postoperatively, and an inferior vena cava filter was implanted with urokinase infusion for thrombolytic therapy. She was discharged on day 52 after admission, and lower limb muscle power returned to normal after 3 months.
CONCLUSIONS: Clinicians should observe postpartum women for signs of myelopathy or back tenderness and closely monitor neurologic function until anesthesia has run its course. A prompt diagnosis can enable prompt intervention.

Citation: Zheng HX, et al. Spontaneous Spinal Epidural Hematoma After Normal Spontaneous Delivery with Epidural Analgesia: Case Report and Literature Review. Spontaneous Spinal Epidural Hematoma After Normal Spontaneous Delivery with Epidural Analgesia: Case Report and Literature Review. 2020; 137:214-217. doi: 10.1016/j.wneu.2020.01.240

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32058108/
