PMID: 32067725
Title: Outcomes of the Gore Excluder abdominal aortic aneurysm leg endoprosthesis for treatment of central vein stenosis or occlusion in patients with chronic hemodialysis.

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: Central venous occlusive disease is a critical complication in long-term hemodialysis patients with arteriovenous (AV) dialysis circuits. The purpose of this retrospective, single-arm cohort study was to evaluate the effectiveness of an abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA) contralateral leg endoprosthesis to treat symptomatic central venous occlusive diseases in patients with chronic hemodialysis.
METHODS: A prospective cohort study included 60 patients on hemodialysis presenting with central venous stenosis or occlusion, who were treated with a Gore Excluder AAA contralateral leg stent graft between December 2013 and July 2018. Follow-up angiography was obtained at 3, 6, and 12 months. The outcomes and duration of primary circuit and target site patency were measured from the time of the stent graft implantation to the first reintervention for AV circuit dysfunction and target site restenosis. Secondary patency was calculated from stent graft implantation to the point when AV access was no longer attainable.
RESULTS: Circuit primary patency rate was 54.9% at 1 year of Gore Excluder AAA contralateral leg or iliac extender stent grafts, implanted in 60 hemodialysis patients with central vein occlusive disease. Cumulative target site primary patency rate was 88.3% at 1 year. Secondary patency rate was 95% during follow-up. Patients with concomitant lesions had a significantly higher risk of circuit primary patency dysfunction.
CONCLUSIONS: Treatment of central vein obstructions in hemodialysis patients with stent grafts has been appealing owing to the tapered shape with a larger diameter and the availability of various lengths.

Citation: Chen YY, et al. Outcomes of the Gore Excluder abdominal aortic aneurysm leg endoprosthesis for treatment of central vein stenosis or occlusion in patients with chronic hemodialysis. Outcomes of the Gore Excluder abdominal aortic aneurysm leg endoprosthesis for treatment of central vein stenosis or occlusion in patients with chronic hemodialysis. 2020; 8:195-204. doi: 10.1016/j.jvsv.2019.08.017

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32067725/
