PMID: 32061396
Title: MRI findings of the cervical spine in patients with mucopolysaccharidosis type VI: relationship with neurological physical examination.

Abstract: AIM: To describe the magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) findings of the cervical spine of patients with mucopolysaccharidosis type VI (MPS VI) and correlate them with clinical manifestations.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: This is a cross-sectional study involving 12 patients with MPS VI. A limited neurological examination was undertaken in each patient including Tinel's test, assessment of muscle tone, and the evaluation of deep tendon reflexes. Additionally, each patient underwent cervical spine MRI to evaluate platybasia, odontoid dysplasia, periodontoid soft-tissue thickening, spinal canal stenosis, myelopathy, basilar invagination, platyspondyly, and reduction of nasopharyngeal airway.
RESULTS: Nine patients were male (75%). The average age was 12.5 (±3.5 years). Tinel's test was negative in all patients. No muscle tone abnormalities were observed. Approximately 48% of the tested reflexes were considered abnormal, 10 of which (8.3%) were pathological occurring in five different patients (41.6%). At MRI, all patients showed periodontoid soft-tissue thickening and cervical spinal stenosis; six showed spinal cord compression and two showed myelopathy. Odontoid hypoplasia and basilar invagination were observed in nine patients. All patients with cervical stenosis on MRI had abnormal reflexes; however, only two of the six patients with evidence of cord compression on MRI had abnormal reflexes on clinical examination.
CONCLUSIONS: The present study of 12 patients with MPS VI demonstrated that a normal neurological examination cannot confidently exclude potential cord compression in patients with this condition. MRI may aid in the timely identification of cervical spine abnormalities, and potentially play a role in lessening morbidity and mortality in patients with MPS.

Citation: Lins CF, et al. MRI findings of the cervical spine in patients with mucopolysaccharidosis type VI: relationship with neurological physical examination. MRI findings of the cervical spine in patients with mucopolysaccharidosis type VI: relationship with neurological physical examination. 2020; 75:441-447. doi: 10.1016/j.crad.2020.01.007

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32061396/
