PMID: 32061837
Title: Prevalence of sleep disturbance in patients with lumbar spinal stenosis and analysis of the risk factors.

Abstract: BACKGROUND CONTEXT: Although sleep quality is indispensable for good quality of life, it has not been properly measured or treated in patients with lumbar spinal stenosis (LSS). Studies that investigate the prevalence of sleep disturbances and identify high-risk patients are essential to help understand mechanisms of sleep disturbance in patients with LSS, develop multimodal treatment strategies, and eventually improve the clinical outcome for LSS.
PURPOSE: The purpose of the study was to investigate the prevalence and status of sleep disturbance in patients with LSS and understand its mechanism by identifying the risk factors.
STUDY DESIGN/SETTING: Cross-sectional study.
PATIENT SAMPLE: Patients diagnosed with LSS.
OUTCOME MEASURES: Pittsburgh sleep quality index (PSQI).
METHODS: A study was performed on patients diagnosed with LSS. Sleep disturbance was evaluated using the PSQI. Clinical and radiologic risk factors of sleep disturbance were investigated by comparing its presence and absence in patients with LSS. Multivariate logistic regression analysis was conducted to identify significant risk factors related to sleep disturbance.
RESULTS: A total of 230 patients with LSS were analyzed in our study, 141 of whom (61.3%) were women, and the average age was 67.7 years. Sleep disturbance (PSQI score≥6) was identified in 66.1% of the patients (152 out of 230). After a multivariate analysis, sleep disturbance was consistently associated with the female sex, a negative score on the depression scale, and a severe foraminal-type stenosis. Oswestry disability index, visual analogue pain scale, and presence of nocturnal pain were not independently associated with sleep disturbance.
CONCLUSIONS: This study identified potential high-risk groups for sleep disturbance among patients with LSS. Proper caution and evaluation for these patients, along with further studies about their treatment outcomes, are required.

Citation: Kim J, et al. Prevalence of sleep disturbance in patients with lumbar spinal stenosis and analysis of the risk factors. Prevalence of sleep disturbance in patients with lumbar spinal stenosis and analysis of the risk factors. 2020; 20:1239-1247. doi: 10.1016/j.spinee.2020.02.008

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32061837/
