PMID: 32077557
Title: Impact of optical coherence tomography-derived neointimal tissue morphology on development of very late in-stent restenosis.

Abstract: OBJECTIVES: This study evaluated the progression of very late in-stent restenosis (VL-ISR) by analyzing four serial coronary angiography (CAG) images and its correlation with neointimal tissue characterization of the VL-ISR lesions on optical coherence tomography (OCT).
BACKGROUND: Recently, VL-ISR is occasionally observed beyond a few years after drug-eluting stents (DESs) implantation.
METHODS: This study analyzed 50 VL-ISR lesions after DES in which 4 serial CAGs over a period of 2 years, including at baseline procedure, 9 months after baseline procedure, 12 months before VL-ISR, and at the time of VL-ISR, were performed. Neointimal tissue characteristics by OCT were categorized as homogeneous, heterogeneous with invisible strut (Type I), heterogeneous with visible strut (Type II), speckled (Type III), or heterogeneous with sharply delineated border (Type IV).
RESULTS: From the development process, 23 VL-ISRs (46%) were categorized as rapid progression and 27 (54%) as gradual progression. The five categories of neointimal tissue composition significantly differed between lesions with rapid and gradual progression. Homogeneous neointima and Type IV heterogeneous neointima were observed only in lesions with gradual progression. Moreover, most Type I heterogeneous neointima was identified in lesions with gradual progression. Instead, main neointimal tissue components of lesions with rapid progression were Type II (43%) and Type III (43%) heterogeneous neointima.
CONCLUSION: The progression rate of in-stent atherosclerotic changes is gradual, whereas organized thrombus could be associated with an increased risk of rapid neointimal growth. The two types of stenosis progression provide a new insight into the mechanism of VL-ISR development after DES implantation.

Citation: Fujii K, et al. Impact of optical coherence tomography-derived neointimal tissue morphology on development of very late in-stent restenosis. Impact of optical coherence tomography-derived neointimal tissue morphology on development of very late in-stent restenosis. 2020; 96:E398-E405. doi: 10.1002/ccd.28799

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32077557/
