PMID: 32076931
Title: Plasma BNP Levels and Diuretics Use as Predictors of Cardiovascular Events in Patients with Myocardial Infarction and Impaired Glucose Tolerance.

Abstract: PURPOSE: Although impaired glucose tolerance (IGT) promotes cardiovascular events, our Alpha-glucosidase-inhibitor Blocks Cardiac Events in Patients with Myocardial Infarction and Impaired Glucose Tolerance (ABC) study showed that alpha-glucosidase inhibitors do not prevent cardiovascular events in patients with myocardial infarction (MI) and IGT. The aim of the present study was to identify potential clinical factors for cardiovascular events in patients with MI and IGT.
METHODS: Using the limitless-arity multiple testing procedure, an artificial intelligence (AI)-based data mining method, we analyzed 385,391 combinations of fewer than four clinical parameters.
RESULTS: We identified 380 combinations predicting the occurrence of (1) all-cause hospitalization, (2) hospitalization due to worsening of heart failure (HF), (3) hospitalization due to non-fatal MI, and (4) hospitalization due to percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) and coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG) for stable angina among 385,391 combinations in 853 patients. Among these, either plasma BNP levels ≥ 200 pg/dl or diuretic use exclusively predicted (1) all-cause hospitalization, (2) hospitalization due to worsening of HF, and (3) hospitalization due to a non-fatal MI, with plasma BNP levels ≥ 200 pg/dl being the sole predictor of hospitalization due to PCI and CABG. Importantly, each finding was verified by independently drawn Kaplan-Meier curves, revealing the unexpected role of plasma BNP levels in the progression of coronary stenosis determined as the necessity of PCI and CABG for stable angina.
CONCLUSIONS: In patients with MI and IGT, high plasma BNP levels predicted the occurrence of coronary stenosis, recurrent MI, and worsening of HF, whereas diuretic use did not predict the progression of coronary stenosis but non-fatal MI and worsening of HF.

Citation: Shindo K, et al. Plasma BNP Levels and Diuretics Use as Predictors of Cardiovascular Events in Patients with Myocardial Infarction and Impaired Glucose Tolerance. Plasma BNP Levels and Diuretics Use as Predictors of Cardiovascular Events in Patients with Myocardial Infarction and Impaired Glucose Tolerance. 2020; 34:79-88. doi: 10.1007/s10557-019-06922-9

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32076931/
