PMID: 32086554
Title: A modified procedure of single-level transforaminal lumbar interbody fusion reduces immediate post-operative symptoms: a prospective case-controlled study based on two hundred and four cases.

Abstract: STUDY DESIGN: This is a prospective case-controlled study.
PURPOSE: The purpose of this study is to investigate the effect of a modified transforaminal lumbar interbody fusion (TLIF) on the immediate post-operative symptoms in patients with lumbar disc herniation (LDH) accompanied with stenosis.
METHODS: A total of 204 LDH patients with single-level TLIF were enrolled. According to the sequence of the placement of rods and cage, patients were divided into group R (rod-prior-to-cage) and group C (cage-prior-to-rod). Neurological function was evaluated by the Japanese Orthopedic Association (JOA) score. Radiological assessment includes height of intervertebral space (HIS), foraminal height (FH), foraminal area (FA), and segmental lordosis (SL). Change of original symptoms (pain/numb) and new-onset symptoms (pain/numb) after surgery were also recorded.
RESULTS: Patients in group R had less change of HIS at L3/4, L4/5, and L5/S1 levels compared with pre-operation (all p > 0.05), whereas group C had larger change (all p < 0.05). No statistical difference was found in FH between the two groups before and after surgery at L3/4, L4/5, and L5/S1, respectively (all p > 0.05). In terms of FA, patients in group R had better improvement after surgery than those in group C at L3/4 and L4/5 (both p < 0.05). Patients in both groups acquired good improvement of neurological function. However, there were fewer patients in group R who experienced post-operative leg pain or numb compared with those in group C (p < 0.05).
CONCLUSION: The modified open TLIF can significantly reduce the incidence of immediate post-operative symptoms for patients with single-level lumbar disc herniation via installation of rods prior to insertion of cage and the "neural standard" should serve as the goal of decompression for spine surgeons to restore disc/foraminal height and to minimize nerve distraction.

Citation: Sun K, et al. A modified procedure of single-level transforaminal lumbar interbody fusion reduces immediate post-operative symptoms: a prospective case-controlled study based on two hundred and four cases. A modified procedure of single-level transforaminal lumbar interbody fusion reduces immediate post-operative symptoms: a prospective case-controlled study based on two hundred and four cases. 2020; 44:935-945. doi: 10.1007/s00264-020-04508-x

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32086554/
