PMID: 32080148
Title: Edaravone reduces depression severity in patients with symptomatic intracranial stenosis and is associated with the serum expression of sex hormones.

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: To investigate the effect of edaravone on depression relief in symptomatic patients with intracranial stenosis and its relationship with the expression of sex hormones.
METHODS: We recruited 112 patients with symptomatic intracranial arterial stenosis from Renmin Hospital, Wuhan University, between October 2014 and October 2017. All patients were divided into the traditional or experimental (traditional treatment + intravenous infusion of edaravone 30 mg twice a day for 14 days) treatment groups. The general clinical data were collected, and neurological functional recovery using the Modified Rankin Scale (mRS) and National Institute of Health stroke scale (NIHSS) scores were recorded. Symptom Checklist 90 (SCL-90) was used to assess the general psychological changes of the patient, followed by the 24 Hamilton Depression Scale (HAMD) to examine the incidence of post-stroke depression (PSD). This divided the patients into the mild, moderate, and severe depression groups. Next, we measured the serum protein expression of the sex hormones estradiol (E2), testosterone (T), follicle stimulating hormone (FSH), prolactin (PRL), and luteinizing hormone (LH).
RESULTS: The mRS and NIHSS scores were significantly lower in the experimental group than in the control group (P < .05). There was no significant difference in SCL90 score before intervention (P > .05); the scores were significantly lower in the experimental group after intervention (P < .05). There was a significant difference in SCL-90 and HAMD scores between groups before treatment (P < .05), with significantly lower scores in the experimental group post-treatment (P < .05). The incidence of depression was significantly reduced in the experimental group post-treatment. Furthermore, the expression of E2 and FSH was significantly higher (P < .01) and lower (P < .001), respectively, in women than in men in the experimental group post-treatment. Interestingly, the expression of T was significantly lower in men in the experimental group post-treatment (P < .001).
CONCLUSION: Edaravone significantly improved the clinical efficacy of stent implantation in intracranial artery stenosis treatment by alleviating depression and reducing the incidence of PSD.

Citation: Kong Z, et al. Edaravone reduces depression severity in patients with symptomatic intracranial stenosis and is associated with the serum expression of sex hormones. Edaravone reduces depression severity in patients with symptomatic intracranial stenosis and is associated with the serum expression of sex hormones. 2020; 99:e19316. doi: 10.1097/MD.0000000000019316

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32080148/
