PMID: 32084411
Title: EUS-guided choledochoduodenostomy by use of electrocautery-enhanced lumen-apposing metal stents: a French multicenter study after implementation of the technique (with video).

Abstract: BACKGROUND AND AIMS: EUS-guided biliary drainage is indicated in cases of impossibility or failure of classic biliary drainage by ERCP. Recently we reported good efficiency of EUS-guided choledochoduodenostomy (EUS-CDS) using the electrocautery-enhanced lumen-apposing metal stent (ECE-LAMS) in a retrospective multicenter study. Use of the recommended technique (direct puncture with the ECE-LAMS with use of a pure cut current and a 6-mm stent) was the only predictive factor of clinical success. We re-evaluated this procedure after 1 year in the same centers.
METHODS: This was a French retrospective multicenter study of a prospective database including all cases of EUS-guided CDS with ECE-LAMS in the 7 centers that participated in the first study.
RESULTS: Seventy consecutive patients were included in this study between September 1, 2017, and September 22, 2018. Failure of primary ERCP was due to duodenal stenosis in 44% of cases and to tumoral infiltration of the papilla in 22% of cases. The mean duration of the procedure was 5 ± 3 minutes. The recommended technique was used in 98.5% of cases. The technical and clinical success rates were both 97.1% (69/70). Short-term adverse events (periprocedural and intrahospital) occurred in 1.6%.
CONCLUSIONS: EUS-CDS with the ECE-LAMS is efficacious and safe in distal malignant obstruction of the common bile duct in cases of ERCP failure with impressive results once expertise is acquired and the recommended technique (direct fistulotomy, pure cut current, and 6-mm stent) is followed.

Citation: Jacques J, et al. EUS-guided choledochoduodenostomy by use of electrocautery-enhanced lumen-apposing metal stents: a French multicenter study after implementation of the technique (with video). EUS-guided choledochoduodenostomy by use of electrocautery-enhanced lumen-apposing metal stents: a French multicenter study after implementation of the technique (with video). 2020; 92:134-141. doi: 10.1016/j.gie.2020.01.055

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32084411/
