PMID: 32093992
Title: Use of Middle Cerebral Artery Visualization with Coronal Computed Tomography to Access Target Artery in Mechanical Thrombectomy.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: When introducing a microguidewire into an occluded vessel during mechanical thrombectomy (MT), visual information on the vessel course distal to the occluded site could help to avoid perforation. We examined whether visualization of the middle cerebral artery (MCA) by coronal images of nonenhanced computed tomography (coronal CT) provides useful preoperative information on the vessel course in the setting of MT.
METHODS AND RESULTS: We retrospectively studied 29 patients with ischemic stroke of the internal carotid artery and MCA occlusion who were admitted to our hospital within 4.5 hours from stroke onset and underwent MT. Coronal CT images were preoperatively created by a dedicated workstation and adjusted to visualize the M1 segment of the MCA (M1) and nearby areas. We referred to these images while performing MT. The shape and course of M1 on preoperative coronal CT images were compared with that in intraoperative angiography after recanalization. The median time from the start of imaging to arterial puncture was 40 minutes (interquartile range: 32.5-55.0 minutes). Successful recanalization of the thrombolysis in cerebral infarction 2b-3 was achieved in 89.7% of patients. The degree of matching was assessed as moderate to excellent, and was useful as preoperative information in 27 (93.1%) patients.
CONCLUSIONS: Preoperative information on the vessel course by coronal CT well matched that in the intraoperative angiography. Only a little extra time and a small additional procedure are necessary for this technique. The addition of coronal CT images could contribute to a safe and successful MT.

Citation: Ohya Y, et al. Use of Middle Cerebral Artery Visualization with Coronal Computed Tomography to Access Target Artery in Mechanical Thrombectomy. Use of Middle Cerebral Artery Visualization with Coronal Computed Tomography to Access Target Artery in Mechanical Thrombectomy. 2020; 29:104714. doi: 10.1016/j.jstrokecerebrovasdis.2020.104714

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32093992/
