PMID: 32093171
Title: Efficacy of Antihypertensive Therapy in a Child with Unilateral Focal Fibromuscular Dysplasia of the Renal Artery: A Case Study and Review of Literature.

Abstract: Background: Fibromuscular dysplasia (FMD) is one of the important etiologies of renovascular hypertension in children. It is usually resistant to multiple antihypertensive agents and can cause extreme elevation in blood pressures, which can lead to end organ damage if not promptly diagnosed and treated. Treatment options include medical management with antihypertensive agents, balloon or stent angioplasties, surgical revascularization, and nephrectomy. The aim of the study was to review the efficacy of antihypertensive therapy only in the management of FMD in a very young child. Methods: This is a retrospective chart study with review of literature. Results: Here, we report a 22-month-old toddler who presented with severe resistant hypertension and cardiomyopathy who was found to have focal FMD of the right renal artery. She also presented with proteinuria, hyponatremia that was probably secondary to pressure natriuresis, hypokalemia, hyperaldosteronism, and elevated plasma renin activity. The stabilization of blood pressures was done medically with the usage of antihypertensive medications only, without the need for angioplasty or surgical revascularization. Conclusions: We demonstrate that surgical intervention may not always be necessary in the treatment of all cases of FMD, especially in a small child where such intervention may be technically challenging and lead to potential complications. Hence, medical management alone may be sufficient, at least for the short-term, in small children with controlled hypertension and normal renal function, with surgical intervention reserved for FMD with medication-refractory hypertension and/or compromised renal function.

Citation: Acharya R, et al. Efficacy of Antihypertensive Therapy in a Child with Unilateral Focal Fibromuscular Dysplasia of the Renal Artery: A Case Study and Review of Literature. Efficacy of Antihypertensive Therapy in a Child with Unilateral Focal Fibromuscular Dysplasia of the Renal Artery: A Case Study and Review of Literature. 2020; 7:(unknown pages). doi: 10.3390/medicines7020009

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32093171/
