PMID: 32096924
Title: Early clinical experience with the straight design of Venus P-valve™ in dysfunctional right ventricular outflow tracts.

Abstract: OBJECTIVES: To assess the initial procedural and short to medium-term experience with the straight design of the Venus P-valve™ (Venus MedTech, Hangzhou, China) in dysfunctional right ventricular outflow tracts (RVOT).
BACKGROUND: The Melody™ valve (Medtronic, Minneapolis, Minnesota) has been the only percutaneous valve option for smaller RVOT conduits. The straight Venus P-valve™ may provide an alternative to the Melody™ valve.
METHODS: Retrospective data collection of patient characteristics, procedural data, clinical and imaging follow-up of the straight Venus P-valve™.
RESULTS: Nine patients (four female) with a mean age of 23.1 ± 7.5 years and a mean weight of 72.7 ± 29.4 kg underwent straight Venus P-valve™ implantation between 03/2014 and 06/2016. All patients had right ventricle-to-pulmonary artery conduits which were pre-stented before the valve implantation. All valves were deployed successfully without any significant procedural complications. During the mean follow-up of 24 ± 9.1 months, there were no valve related re-interventions or deterioration in valve performance. There was one case of insignificant, single wire frame fracture and no cases of endocarditis. The cohort demonstrated a reduction in pulmonary regurgitation and tricuspid regurgitation, which was sustained throughout the follow-up. Similarly the gradient across the RVOT tract did not significantly increase.
CONCLUSIONS: Implantation of the straight Venus P-valve™ has provided satisfactory short to mid-term results with high success rates and no complications and may be considered as an alternative option in patients with RVOT dysfunction.

Citation: Morgan GJ, et al. Early clinical experience with the straight design of Venus P-valve™ in dysfunctional right ventricular outflow tracts. Early clinical experience with the straight design of Venus P-valve™ in dysfunctional right ventricular outflow tracts. 2020; 96:E653-E659. doi: 10.1002/ccd.28819

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32096924/
