PMID: 32093911
Title: The role of emergency presentation and revascularization in aneurysms of the peripancreatic arteries secondary to celiac trunk or superior mesenteric artery occlusion.

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: The goal of this study was to analyze our 10-year experience in the treatment of aneurysms of the collateral circulation secondary to steno-occlusions of the celiac trunk (CT) or superior mesenteric artery (SMA).
METHODS: In the last 10 years, 32 celiac-mesenteric aneurysms were detected (25 true aneurysms and seven pseudoaneurysms) in 25 patients with steno-occlusion of the CT or SMA. All cases were diagnosed and treated at our center, with either surgical or endovascular approach. As open surgery, we performed aneurysmectomy and revascularization; as endovascular treatment we performed both the embolization (or graft exclusion) of the aneurysm sac, and embolization of afferent and efferent arteries.
RESULTS: Sixteen patients (64%) underwent endovascular treatment, accounting for 66% of aneurysms (21/32). Six patients (24%) and seven associated aneurysms (22%) underwent open surgery. Three asymptomatic patients (12%), representing a total of four aneurysms (12%), were not treated. For endovascular procedures, the technical success rate was 90%, with a 56% clinical success rate. For open surgery, clinical and technical success were achieved in five patients (83%) and six procedures (86%), respectively. Sixty-eight percent of patients (17/25) were treated in an emergency setting, using either endovascular (88%) or open (12%) approaches. Although technical success was achieved in more than 85% of these procedures for both approaches, clinical success was reached less frequently among patients with an acute presentation (P = .041). Regardless of the type of treatment, CT or SMA revascularization during the first procedure did not show an increased rate of clinical success (P = .531). However, we reported four cases of visceral ischemia after an endovascular approach without revascularization, with three open surgical corrections required. The mean follow-up was 41 months (range, 0-136 months).
CONCLUSIONS: Neither of the approaches described qualifies as a standard optimal choice. We suggest a tailored therapeutic approach based on the clinical condition at the time of diagnosis and specific vascular anatomy.

Citation: Bonardelli S, et al. The role of emergency presentation and revascularization in aneurysms of the peripancreatic arteries secondary to celiac trunk or superior mesenteric artery occlusion. The role of emergency presentation and revascularization in aneurysms of the peripancreatic arteries secondary to celiac trunk or superior mesenteric artery occlusion. 2020; 72:46S-55S. doi: 10.1016/j.jvs.2019.11.051

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32093911/
