PMID: 32095196
Title: Is Lipoprotein (a) a Risk Factor for Coronary Artery Ectasia?

Abstract: BACKGROUND: The pathophysiology of coronary artery ectasia (CAE) is under investigated and not well understood. Atherosclerosis is considered as the main etiologic factor for CAE in adults where more than 50% of CAE patients have atherosclerosis. Recently, lipoprotein (a) (Lp(a)) has emerged as a powerful risk factor for atherosclerosis and coronary artery disease (CAD). Serum levels of Lp(a) in patients with CAE have not been investigated. We assumed that Lp(a) may play a role in the pathogenesis of CAE. Principally, our study aims to identify whether Lp(a) is an independent risk factor for CAE.
METHODS: Our study is a prospective pilot study. Study population was collected prospectively from pool of patients referred for elective cardiac catheterization at Jordan University Hospital (JUH) in the period extending from February 17, 2018 to June 31, 2018. Patients were referred for elective coronary angiography after being interviewed and physically examined by a cardiologist (HA). Patients with known history of CAD or who are already on anti-lipidemic drugs either documented in the medical records or by interviewing patients for history of revascularization were excluded from the study.
RESULTS: Regarding the primary outcome, there was no significant difference in Lp(a) concentrations between normal and ectasia groups in the general sample (median: 17.5mg/dL vs. 20.4 mg/dL, P value = 0.38).
CONCLUSIONS: Our study concludes that there is no detected relationship between elevated Lp(a) levels and developing CAE. CAE was more common in patients with low high-density lipoprotein (HDL) level (compared with patients with normal coronaries), higher total cholesterol level (compared with patients with non-obstructive stenosis) and higher hemoglobin A1c (HbA1c).

Citation: Al-Makhamreh HK, et al. Is Lipoprotein (a) a Risk Factor for Coronary Artery Ectasia?. Is Lipoprotein (a) a Risk Factor for Coronary Artery Ectasia?. 2020; 11:50-55. doi: 10.14740/cr992

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32095196/
