PMID: 32093607
Title: Consecutive electrocardiographic changes during percutaneous coronary intervention for acute coronary syndrome with high-grade atrioventricular block: a case report.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Acute coronary syndrome (ACS) with high-grade atrioventricular block (HAVB) still has a poor mortality risk, even in the current percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) era. However, early PCI for ACS with HAVB is associated with improved in-hospital survival and a 6-month survival similar to that of ACS without HAVB.
CASE PRESENTATION: A 70-year-old man was admitted to our hospital for ACS with HAVB. ECG showed complete AV block, complete right bundle branch block (CRBBB), and left axis deviation. Cardiac enzymes were elevated. He underwent temporary pacemaker insertion and coronary angiography, which showed severe stenosis of the proximal right coronary artery (RCA), 99% stenosis of the distal RCA with Thrombolysis in Myocardial Infarction (TIMI) grade 2 flow, and total occlusion of the proximal left anterior descending artery (LAD). We performed primary PCI in both the RCA and LAD, which resulted in TIMI grade 3 flow in both. After PCI, the HAVB recovered to normal sinus rhythm with CRBBB; a normal QRS interval returned within three days. The patient was discharged from the hospital without complications.
CONCLUSION: In this case of ACS with HAVB, early intensive coronary artery reperfusion resulted in long-term patient survival. The blood supply to the AV node and bilateral bundle branches is complex. Multivessel ischemia may compromise both primary and collateral blood flows to the AV node and septum, resulting in severe conduction impairment. Clinicians performing PCI should be aware of this anatomy and physiology.

Citation: Sueyoshi H, et al. Consecutive electrocardiographic changes during percutaneous coronary intervention for acute coronary syndrome with high-grade atrioventricular block: a case report. Consecutive electrocardiographic changes during percutaneous coronary intervention for acute coronary syndrome with high-grade atrioventricular block: a case report. 2020; 20:89. doi: 10.1186/s12872-020-01392-6

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32093607/
