PMID: 32093442
Title: Evaluation of the effect of percutaneous mitral balloon valvuloplasty on left ventricular systolic functions using strain and strain rate echocardiography.

Abstract: BACKGROUND/AIM: This study aimed to evaluate the effect of successful percutaneous mitral balloon valvuloplasty (PMBV) on left ventricular systolic functions using strain and strain rate echocardiography in moderate–severe mitral stenosis (MS) patients with normal left ventricular systolic function confirmed by conventional echocardiography.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Patients with moderate–severe MS who had undergone successful PMBV were included. Conventional echocardiographic parameters were evaluated before and after PMBV. Peak systolic strain and strain rate values of basal, mid, and apical segments of the left ventricular anterior, inferior, septum, and lateral walls were determined.
RESULTS: After PMBV, significant decreases were determined in the peak and mean gradients of the mitral valve and pulmonary artery pressure, but a significant increase in the mitral valve area. Significant increases (improvement) were determined in the peak systolic strain and strain rate in the basal, mid, and apical segments of the left ventricular septum, lateral, anterior, and inferior walls and in the left ventricular global peak systolic strain (–17.32 ± 0.58% vs. –12.38 ± 1.06%) and strain rate (–1.65 ± 0.07 vs. –1.22 ± 0.12).
CONCLUSION: Strain and strain rate echocardiography can be used for quantitative evaluation of the effect of PMBV on the left ventricular systolic functions in moderate–severe MS patients.

Citation: Güntürk EE, et al. Evaluation of the effect of percutaneous mitral balloon valvuloplasty on left ventricular systolic functions using strain and strain rate echocardiography. Evaluation of the effect of percutaneous mitral balloon valvuloplasty on left ventricular systolic functions using strain and strain rate echocardiography. 2020; 50:724-730. doi: 10.3906/sag-1901-69

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32093442/
