PMID: 32102510
Title: Sexual Dysfunction in Carcinoma Cervix: Assessment in Post Treated Cases by LENTSOMA Scale.

Abstract: Treatment for cervical cancer consists of hysterectomy, radiotherapy, chemotherapy and targeted therapy in different combination based on stage at presentation. However, late consequences of such radical treatments are known but not many Indian studies have reported it. Quality of life and impact on sexual health has become an important issue in view of long survival of cervical cancer patients. LENTSOMA scale is one such scale validated for scoring radiotherapy related morbidity. However, there is need for a comprehensive scale covering all aspects of physical and psychological disruptions to provide complete recovery and rehabilitation. The study was prospective and patients who were treated for cervical cancer on follow up were included in this study. A total of 85 patients, who were treated with surgery, radiotherapy, chemotherapy alone or in combination, comprising of stage I to stage IV disease, participated in this study. Findings of this study showed that pain during intercourse and altered sexual life were reported by 32.9% and 25.9% patients respectively whereas 24.7% found it problematic and in 22.3% patients, alteration in interest in sex were reported. Vaginal stenosis was seen in 75.29% of patients after treatment with decreased frequency of intercourse after treatment was seen in 16.4 % of patients. Combination of surgery and radiotherapy in cervical cancer patients caused more sexual dysfunction and dissatisfaction, especially in lower age group. Treatment morbidity in term of sexual function was more with advanced stage disease and with the patients on longer follow up. Sexual function is an important aspect of quality of life but there is no single self-report measure in routine clinical follow up use which is brief, easy to complete and incorporates all (physical, psychological, emotional) aspects of sexual health for people affected by cancer.<br />.

Citation: Shankar A, et al. Sexual Dysfunction in Carcinoma Cervix: Assessment in Post Treated Cases by LENTSOMA Scale. Sexual Dysfunction in Carcinoma Cervix: Assessment in Post Treated Cases by LENTSOMA Scale. 2020; 21:349-354. doi: 10.31557/APJCP.2020.21.2.349

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32102510/
