PMID: 32104956
Title: Modified endoscopic Denker approach in management of inverted papilloma of the anterior maxillary sinus.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Inverted papilloma (IP) is a benign epithelial tumor of the sinonasal cavity that is locally aggressive and has a propensity for recurrence. Tumors involving the anterior maxillary sinus can be challenging to reach endoscopically, and have historically been approached through a Caldwell-Luc or canine fossa trephination. We present a case series of 22 patients with maxillary IPs originating from the anterior wall, which were successfully resected using a modified endoscopic Denker (MED) procedure. This technique enables access to the entire maxillary sinus without the need for a separate transseptal or sublabial incision.
METHODS: A retrospective chart review was performed on patients who underwent the MED approach for management of maxillary IPs involving the anterior wall from 2012 to 2018. The demographic data, clinical presentation, radiographic findings, pathology, and surgical outcomes were reviewed.
RESULTS: Twenty-two patients were identified, including 13 males and 9 females. Eighteen of the 22 patients had prior surgery and all had Krouse stage 3 disease. After a mean follow-up of 24 (range, 4-63) months, only 1 patient (4.5%) developed a recurrence, which was treated successfully with endoscopic resection. Complications included 1 patient with preoperative epiphora who required dacryocystorhinostomy, epistaxis in another, and 1 patient with transient upper lip numbness. No patients developed alar notching or pyriform aperture stenosis.
CONCLUSION: The MED technique is highly effective for surgical resection of primary and recurrent maxillary IPs involving the anterior wall, providing complete access to the entire maxillary sinus. In many cases, the MED can obviate the need for an adjunctive sublabial or transseptal incision, while also providing excellent exposure for postoperative surveillance.

Citation: Lee JT, et al. Modified endoscopic Denker approach in management of inverted papilloma of the anterior maxillary sinus. Modified endoscopic Denker approach in management of inverted papilloma of the anterior maxillary sinus. 2020; 10:533-538. doi: 10.1002/alr.22513

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32104956/
