PMID: 32111814
Title: Late Presentation of a Congenitally Corrected Transposition of Great Arteries and Hemodynamically Balanced Ventricles Associated with a Large Ventricular Septal Defect and Severe Pulmonary Stenosis: A Case Report and a Multi-Imaging Approach.

Abstract: BACKGROUND Congenitally corrected transposition of great arteries (ccTGA) represents a distinct rare group of congenital heart diseases. Survival of unoperated ccTGA in the presence of large ventricular septal defect (VSD) is exceptional. Furthermore, late presentation of such patients in the absence of severe pulmonary hypertension or severe systemic right ventricle dysfunction is unusual. CASE REPORT We report a rare late presentation of ccTGA associated with large VSD in the absence of severe pulmonary hypertension or systemic ventricle dysfunction. An associated severe pulmonary valve stenosis maintained a balanced and stable condition up to the fourth decade of life. The patient has also dextrocardia, which is an unusual association. The diagnosis was reached using multimodality imaging including transthoracic echocardiogram (TTE), transesophageal echography (TEE), cardiac magnetic resonance imaging (CMR), and cardiac computed tomography (cardiac CT). CONCLUSIONS The presence of pulmonary stenosis can provide a physiological protection that avoids unnecessary surgical correction of large VSD in ccTGA patients. However, such a decision should be made on an individual basis and following a careful anatomical and functional evaluation.

Citation: Elenizi K, et al. Late Presentation of a Congenitally Corrected Transposition of Great Arteries and Hemodynamically Balanced Ventricles Associated with a Large Ventricular Septal Defect and Severe Pulmonary Stenosis: A Case Report and a Multi-Imaging Approach. Late Presentation of a Congenitally Corrected Transposition of Great Arteries and Hemodynamically Balanced Ventricles Associated with a Large Ventricular Septal Defect and Severe Pulmonary Stenosis: A Case Report and a Multi-Imaging Approach. 2020; 21:e920822. doi: 10.12659/AJCR.920822

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32111814/
