PMID: 32111433
Title: MicroRNA expression profiles in the esophagus of children with caustic stenosis: A pathway towards esophageal cancer?

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Eighty percent of caustic ingestions occur in children and esophageal neoplasms may develop as a late complication of such injury. The identification of biomarkers is a promising strategy to improve early diagnosis of esophageal cancer or caustic lesions that are at an increased risk of progression.
STUDY DESIGN/AIMS: This study aimed at identifying global microRNA (miRNA) expression changes in esophageal mucosa from children with caustic stenosis. The study included 27 biopsy samples from 15 patients. Samples were divided into two groups, according to the time elapsed after injury (N = 15 in Group A, with less than five years of follow-up and N = 12 in Group B, with more than five years of follow-up). miRNA expression profiles were determined in each lesion, compared with normal esophageal tissues from control group. We used the TaqMan Human MicroRNA Arrays (Thermo Fisher) platform. Furthermore, bioinformatic algorithms were used to identify miRNA target genes and biological pathways including miRNAs and their target genes potentially associated with esophageal disease.
RESULTS: Thirteen miRNAs were significantly deregulated (9 over- and 4 underexpressed) in patients from Group A. In patients from Group B, two miRNAs were over- and two were underexpressed. Of note, miR-374 and miR-574 were deregulated in Group B patients and have been linked to esophageal tumorigenesis. We identified signal transduction and transcription factor networks with genes strongly related to development and progression of esophageal cancer.
CONCLUSION: miRNAs identified here contribute to a better understanding of pathways associated with malignant transformation from caustic stenosis to neoplastic lesions. This study may serve as a basis for validation of miRNAs, including miR-374 and miR-574, as potential biomarkers of early cancer detection.

Citation: de Oliveira Junior WE, et al. MicroRNA expression profiles in the esophagus of children with caustic stenosis: A pathway towards esophageal cancer?. MicroRNA expression profiles in the esophagus of children with caustic stenosis: A pathway towards esophageal cancer?. 2020; 55:2144-2149. doi: 10.1016/j.jpedsurg.2020.02.009

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32111433/
