PMID: 32118730
Title: r-tPA with loading dose of clopidogrel and aspirin therapies for capsular warning syndrome attributed to middle cerebral artery atherosclerotic stenosis: A CARE-compliant case report.

Abstract: RATIONALE: The capsular warning syndrome (CWS) is a rare and special type of transient ischemic attacks (TIAs) syndrome. The pathophysiology of CWS is very complicate, and intracranial atherosclerotic stenosis (ICAS) is rare cause. Moreover, the effective and standard therapy has not yet been established.
PATIENT CONCERNS: A 47-year-old man experienced repeated and exacerbated TIAs of right hemiparesis and dysarthria. Fourteen hours after the first episode of TIAs, he developed more severe right hemiparesis and dysarthria, the National Institute of Health Stroke Scale (NIHSS) score was 12 points, and did not recover in a long time.
DIAGNOSIS: The computed tomography (CT) angiography displayed high stenosis in the M1 segment of the left middle cerebral artery. The patient was diagnosed as CWS with ICAS.
INTERVENTIONS: Loading dose of clopidogrel and aspirin were started but were ineffective, then we used recombinant tissue plasminogen (r-tPA) for thrombolysis therapy after repeat CT scan that showed small acute infarcts in the right putamen and no bleeding.
OUTCOMES: The patient was successfully treated by r-tPA intravenous thrombolysis after loading dose of dual-anti-platelet. He recovered rapidly, and the NIHSS score was 0 point, modified Rankin Scale score was 0 point, and Barthel Index score was 100 points at 3-month follow-up.
LESSONS: r-tPA combined with loading dose of dual antiplatelet appears safe and effective in carefully selected CWS patients with ICAS. The collection of similar cases and further randomized controlled trial research would be desirable.

Citation: Xu J, et al. r-tPA with loading dose of clopidogrel and aspirin therapies for capsular warning syndrome attributed to middle cerebral artery atherosclerotic stenosis: A CARE-compliant case report. r-tPA with loading dose of clopidogrel and aspirin therapies for capsular warning syndrome attributed to middle cerebral artery atherosclerotic stenosis: A CARE-compliant case report. 2020; 99:e19247. doi: 10.1097/MD.0000000000019247

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32118730/
