PMID: 32110668
Title: Complex liver retransplantation to treat graft loss due to long-term biliary tract complication after liver transplantation: A case report.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Loss of graft function after liver transplantation (LT) inevitably requires liver retransplant. Retransplantation of the liver (ReLT) remains controversial because of inferior outcomes compared with the primary orthotopic LT (OLT). Meanwhile, if accompanied by vascular complications such as arterial and portal vein (PV) stenosis or thrombosis, it will increase difficulties of surgery. We hereby introduce our center's experience in ReLT through a complicated case of ReLT.
CASE SUMMARY: We report a patient who suffered from hepatitis B-associated cirrhosis and underwent LT in December 2012. Early postoperative recovery was uneventful. Four months after LT, the patient's bilirubin increased significantly and he was diagnosed with an ischemic-type biliary lesion caused by hepatic artery occlusion. The patient underwent percutaneous transhepatic cholangial drainage and repeatedly replaced intrahepatic biliary drainage tube regularly for 5 years. The patient developed progressive deterioration of liver function and underwent liver re-transplant in January 2019. The operation was performed in a classic OLT manner without venous bypass. Both the hepatic artery and PV were occluded and could not be used for anastomosis. The donor PV was anastomosed with the recipient's left renal vein. The donor hepatic artery was connected to the recipient's abdominal aorta. The bile duct reconstruction was performed in an end-to-end manner. The postoperative process was very uneventful and the patient was discharged 1 mo after retransplantation.
CONCLUSION: With the development of surgical techniques, portal thrombosis and arterial occlusion are no longer contraindications for ReLT.

Citation: Li J, et al. Complex liver retransplantation to treat graft loss due to long-term biliary tract complication after liver transplantation: A case report. Complex liver retransplantation to treat graft loss due to long-term biliary tract complication after liver transplantation: A case report. 2020; 8:568-576. doi: 10.12998/wjcc.v8.i3.568

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32110668/
