PMID: 32111412
Title: Bilateral vocal fold immobility: Clinical findings of ten cases and suggested treatment options.

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: To present the clinical findings of 10 cases of bilateral vocal fold immobility (adducted type) and suggest potential treatment options.
METHODS: This retrospective study included 10 patients who underwent tracheostomy for restricted airway due to bilateral vocal fold immobility of the adducted type during the period from 2007 to 2017. All 10 patients underwent unilateral laterofixation surgery with or without additional arytenoidectomy using a CO<sub>2</sub> laser. The effect of laterofixation surgery for decannulation was evaluated. Statistical analysis was performed to assess the effects of laterofixation based on the results of preoperative and intraoperative examinations including endoscopic examinations, electromyography, and the intraoperative traction-mobility test.
RESULTS: Initial laterofixation surgery for decannulation was effective in 6 cases. In the 4 cases that exhibited laterofixation failure, additional endoscopic subtotal arytenoidectomy was performed. Statistical analysis of the effects of laterofixation revealed that, in cases with bilateral preserved muscle tone, unilateral simple laterofixation surgery was unable to achieve a significantly effective glottal airway. Additional subtotal arytenoidectomy was also ineffective in a case with bilateral ankylosis.
CONCLUSION: Based on the clinical findings in these 10 cases of bilateral vocal fold immobility of the adducted type, treatment options are suggested and a severity classification system of bilateral vocal fold immobility is proposed that focuses mainly on electromyography results for assessment of dynamic restenosis and traction-mobility test results for assessment of static restenosis. Validation of the classification system is needed in a larger cohort of cases of bilateral vocal fold immobility.

Citation: Matsushima K, et al. Bilateral vocal fold immobility: Clinical findings of ten cases and suggested treatment options. Bilateral vocal fold immobility: Clinical findings of ten cases and suggested treatment options. 2020; 47:624-631. doi: 10.1016/j.anl.2020.02.005

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32111412/
