PMID: 32126886
Title: Statin treatment of patients with calcific aortic valve disease modulates extracellular adenosine metabolism on the cell surface of the aortic valve.

Abstract: Statins efficiently prevent cardiovascular events by lipid-dependent and independent mechanisms. We hypothesize that part of these protective effects could be associated with an increased extracellular adenosine signaling. We demonstrated previously that aortic valves obtained from patients with calcific aortic valve disease (CAVD) disclosed disturbances in extracellular adenosine metabolism. This study aimed to analyze the impact of statin treatment on extracellular nucleotides and adenosine metabolism in aortic valves originated from CAVD patients and to elucidate potential mechanisms that are involved in the regulation of ecto-enzyme activities by statins. Aortic valves of CAVD patients treated with statins (n = 45) revealed higher adenosine production and its lower degradation than in non-treated patients (n = 28). Statin treatment was also related to the improvement in pre-operative echocardiographic data indicating milder aortic valve stenosis and a better function of the left ventricle. The rates of aortic valve adenosine conversions correlated with plasma lipid profile parameters, within both statin-treated and non-treated groups. Valvular extracellular AMP hydrolysis correlated negatively, while adenosine deamination positively with plasma total and LDL cholesterol. Atorvastatin treatment of murine heart endothelial cells led to the enhanced ecto-5'nucleotidase (CD73) and decreased ecto-adenosine deaminase (eADA) activity. When endothelial cells were stimulated with thrombin that induces endothelial cell exocytosis, activities of both cell-surface CD73 and eADA were increased, while co-treatment with atorvastatin reversed only thrombin-induced eADA activity. In conclusion, early intervention with statins may provide beneficial effects for CAVD therapy. Here, we presented results showing that these protective outcomes could be mediated via the regulation of extracellular adenosine metabolism pathways.

Citation: Kutryb-Zajac B, et al. Statin treatment of patients with calcific aortic valve disease modulates extracellular adenosine metabolism on the cell surface of the aortic valve. Statin treatment of patients with calcific aortic valve disease modulates extracellular adenosine metabolism on the cell surface of the aortic valve. 2020; 39:1389-1399. doi: 10.1080/15257770.2020.1733603

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32126886/
