PMID: 32126071
Title: Model-based estimation of left ventricular pressure and myocardial work in aortic stenosis.

Abstract: This paper proposes a model-based estimation of left ventricular (LV) pressure for the evaluation of constructive and wasted myocardial work of patients with aortic stenosis (AS). A model of the cardiovascular system is proposed, including descriptions of i) cardiac electrical activity, ii) elastance-based cardiac cavities, iii) systemic and pulmonary circulations and iv) heart valves. After a sensitivity analysis of model parameters, an identification strategy was implemented using a Monte-Carlo cross-validation approach. Parameter identification procedure consists in two steps for the estimation of LV pressures: step 1) from invasive, intraventricular measurements and step 2) from non-invasive data. The proposed approach was validated on data obtained from 12 patients with AS. The total relative errors between estimated and measured pressures were on average 11.9% and 12.27% and mean R2 were equal to 0.96 and 0.91, respectively for steps 1 and 2 of parameter identification strategy. Using LV pressures obtained from non-invasive measurements (step 2) and patient-specific simulations, Global Constructive (GCW), Wasted (GWW) myocardial Work and Global Work Efficiency (GWE) parameters were calculated. Correlations between measures and model-based estimations were 0.88, 0.80, 0.91 respectively for GCW, GWW and GWE. The main contributions concern the proposal of the parameter identification procedure, applied on an integrated cardiovascular model, able to reproduce LV pressure specifically to each AS patient, by non-invasive procedures, as well as a new method for the non-invasive estimation of constructive, wasted myocardial work and work efficiency in AS.

Citation: Owashi KP, et al. Model-based estimation of left ventricular pressure and myocardial work in aortic stenosis. Model-based estimation of left ventricular pressure and myocardial work in aortic stenosis. 2020; 15:e0229609. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0229609

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32126071/
