PMID: 32122776
Title: Hyperhomocysteinemia Causes Severe Intraoperative Thrombotic Tendency in Superficial Temporal Artery-middle Cerebral Artery Bypass.

Abstract: CASE: Two years ago, annual magnetic resonance imaging for unruptured right internal carotid artery aneurysm of a 47-year-old woman detected a cerebral infarct in her right occipital lobe which was unknown etiology and antiplatelet therapy was initiated. She presented with sensory disorder of her left fingers 4 months ago. Infarction in right parieto-occipital cortex and severe stenosis of right middle cerebral artery was revealed. Her laboratory test was normal except remarkably high homocysteine value. Regardless of dual anti-platelet therapy, she suffered from repeated minor stroke and the stenosis was progressing. Therefore, right superficial temporal artery - middle cerebral artery bypass was undertaken. Aspirin and clopidogrel were withdrawn 1 week before the surgery. Two branches were anastomosed with 2 separate frontal M4 branches. Although patency was confirmed immediately after the anastomosis, thrombus formation was revealed after 10 minutes. We needed to perform removal of the thrombus and re-anastomosis twice. Intraoperative administration of aspirin and ozagrel alleviated thrombotic tendency. After surgery, antiplatelet therapy and supplementation with folate and vitamin B were performed. Her postoperative course was uneventful and patency of both anastomoses was confirmed.
DISCUSSION: Controversy still exists regarding preoperative antiplatelet therapy before superficial temporal artery-middle cerebral artery bypass, and folates and B6-12 vitamins supplementation for hyperhomocysteinemia. Considering intraoperative thrombo tendency in our case, it is recommended to evaluate the homocysteine level before bypass surgery for intracranial stenosis especially for young patients or patients with unknown etiology. Before bypass surgery of the patient with hyperhomocysteinemia, continuation of perioperative antiplatelet drugs and supplementation with folates and B6-12 vitamins are mandatory.

Citation: Sato K, et al. Hyperhomocysteinemia Causes Severe Intraoperative Thrombotic Tendency in Superficial Temporal Artery-middle Cerebral Artery Bypass. Hyperhomocysteinemia Causes Severe Intraoperative Thrombotic Tendency in Superficial Temporal Artery-middle Cerebral Artery Bypass. 2020; 29:104633. doi: 10.1016/j.jstrokecerebrovasdis.2019.104633

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32122776/
