PMID: 32128500
Title: Primary percutaneous coronary intervention for a left main bifurcation lesion without stenting using excimer laser with optical coherence tomography guidance: a case report.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Optimal strategy for treating bifurcation lesions or lesions with large thrombus in left main disease remains elusive. Excimer laser coronary angioplasty (ELCA) is a therapeutic option for thrombotic lesions in acute coronary syndrome.
CASE SUMMARY: A 68-year-old man with chest pain was transferred to our emergency department, and subsequently diagnosed as inferior ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction (STEMI). Emergent coronary angiography revealed a 75% stenosis in the left main trunk (LMT). Optical coherence tomography (OCT) showed massive thrombus at the distal LMT to the ostial left anterior descending artery (LAD) and left circumflex artery (LCx). ELCA was performed in the three directions from LMT to proximal LAD, proximal LCx, and obtuse marginal branch. OCT after ELCA showed reduction of thrombus and no apparent plaque rupture or calcification, implying that coronary thrombosis was caused by OCT-defined plaque erosion. Intracoronary electrocardiogram of the LCx showed ST-segment elevation which corresponded to inferior ST-segment elevation, whereas no intracoronary electrocardiogram ST-segment elevation was detected for LAD. Taking all of the data including angiographic appearance, OCT-derived residual lumen size and residual thrombus volume, and strategic options into consideration, we completed percutaneous coronary intervention without stent deployment. He has been free from any cardiac events thereafter for 8 months.
DISCUSSION: Optimal strategy of coronary intervention for bifurcation lesions, especially LMT bifurcations, remains elusive. ELCA may have a potential to safely reduce intracoronary thrombus in patients presenting with acute coronary syndrome with OCT guidance.

Citation: Hada M, et al. Primary percutaneous coronary intervention for a left main bifurcation lesion without stenting using excimer laser with optical coherence tomography guidance: a case report. Primary percutaneous coronary intervention for a left main bifurcation lesion without stenting using excimer laser with optical coherence tomography guidance: a case report. 2020; 4:1-6. doi: 10.1093/ehjcr/ytaa003

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32128500/
