PMID: 32122245
Title: Surgical Treatment and Outcomes for Sinonasal and Skull Base Phosphaturic Mesenchymal Tumors.

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: To describe our clinical experience with surgical treatments for sinonasal phosphaturic mesenchymal tumors diagnosed at our institution.
STUDY DESIGN: Retrospective case series.
SETTING: Affiliated Sixth People's Hospital, Shanghai Jiao Tong University.
SUBJECTS AND METHODS: We retrospectively reviewed the medical records of 10 patients diagnosed with phosphaturic mesenchymal tumors associated with tumor-induced osteomalacia between December 2014 and October 2019.
RESULTS: There were 4 men and 6 women with a disease course of 1 to 19 years. All patients exhibited hypophosphatemia and tumor-induced osteomalacia. The tumor was located in the sinonasal region, frontal bone, and temporal bone in 8 patients, 1 patient, and 1 patient, respectively. Technetium-99m octreotide scintigraphy was used for tumor localization in 4 cases. Six patients underwent endoscopic resection; the remaining 4 underwent unilateral transorbital anterior and posterior ethmoid artery ligation + endoscopic resection, endoscopic resection + skull base repair, internal carotid artery stenting + transcatheter arterial embolization + temporal bone tumor excision + adipose tissue plugging, and endoscopic resection + transfrontal craniotomy (n = 1 each). Two patients had a history of incomplete endoscopic resection. All patients achieved clinical remission and normalized biochemical indices after surgery. Only 1 patient developed recurrence and died of a brain hernia.
CONCLUSIONS: A diagnosis of sinonasal phosphaturic mesenchymal tumors should be based on a combination of clinical, imaging, and pathological findings. Technetium-99m octreotide scintigraphy helps in locating the tumor. Complete surgical excision guarantees clinical remission, and preoperative transcatheter arterial embolization or feeding artery ligation may reduce intraoperative bleeding in cases of highly vascularized tumors.

Citation: Tang R, et al. Surgical Treatment and Outcomes for Sinonasal and Skull Base Phosphaturic Mesenchymal Tumors. Surgical Treatment and Outcomes for Sinonasal and Skull Base Phosphaturic Mesenchymal Tumors. 2020; 162:674-682. doi: 10.1177/0194599820904055

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32122245/
