PMID: 32122748
Title: [Indocyanine green fluorescence to visualize the ureteric vascularization of kidney transplants: An exploratory study].

Abstract: INTRODUCTION: Urinary complications after kidney transplantation are common and can compromise renal function. While they are mainly attributed to ischemic lesions of the ureter, there is no existing method to evaluate its vascularization during surgery. The aim of the study was to evaluate if indocyanine green, revealed by infra-red light andused to visualize tissue perfusion, could provide an appreciation of the ureter's vascularization during kidney transplantation.
METHODS: This feasibility study was conducted over one month, on eleven consecutive kidney transplants. During transplantation, an injection of indocyanine green enabled the surgeon to visualize in real time with an infra-red camera the ureter fluorescence. Its intensity was reported on a qualitative and semi-quantitative scale. Occurrence of urinary complications such as stenosis or ureteral fistula were collected during 6 months.
RESULTS: In all of the 11 cases (100%), the last centimeters of the ureters were not fluorescent. Three (27%) ureters were poorly or partiallly fluorescent. Out of these three cases, only one case of urinary fistula occurred, followed by ureteric stenosis. In the series, two fistulas (18%) and two ureteric stenoses (18%) occurred. No side effects were observed. The low number of events did not allow statistical analysis.
CONCLUSION: Infra-red fluorescence of indocyanine green could be a simple and innovative way to appreciate the transplant's ureteric vascularization during kidney transplantation. It could help surgeons to identify the level of ureter section and to decide the anastomosis technique, in order to limit urinary complications.
LEVEL OF EVIDENCE: 3.

Citation: Boullenois H, et al. [Indocyanine green fluorescence to visualize the ureteric vascularization of kidney transplants: An exploratory study]. [Indocyanine green fluorescence to visualize the ureteric vascularization of kidney transplants: An exploratory study]. 2020; 30:155-161. doi: 10.1016/j.purol.2020.01.005

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32122748/
