PMID: 32139281
Title: Predictors of In-Hospital Adverse Outcomes after Rotational Atherectomy: Impact of the Target Vessel SYNTAX Score.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Rotational atherectomy (RA) is an established treatment of calcified lesions, but has some inherent procedural hazards. However, predictors of in-hospital adverse outcomes after RA are poorly investigated.
OBJECTIVE: To explore the predictors of in-hospital adverse outcomes after RA and to introduce the target vessel SYNTAX score (tvSS) as a potential causal variable.
METHODS: Patients who underwent RA at our center (n = 323) were divided into two groups according to the occurrence of in-hospital adverse outcomes (a composite of residual stenosis ≥30%, persistent slow flow, dissection requiring additional stenting beyond the primary lesion, perforation, burr entrapment, and in-hospital major adverse cardiac events [MACE]).
RESULTS: In-hospital adverse outcomes were more frequent in patients with severely-tortuous target vessels or lesions >20 mm, while aorto-ostial and bifurcation lesions, as well as chronic total occlusion rates, were equally distributed among patients with and without adverse outcomes. TvSS was 18 [13-24] vs. 12 [8-17] in patients with vs. without in-hospital adverse outcomes (p < 0.001). A tvSS cut-off value of 15 showed 73% sensitivity and 62% specificity for predicting in-hospital adverse outcomes. TvSS emerged as an independent predictor for in-hospital adverse outcomes along with bailout RA and reduced left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF). However, after one year, the occurrence of in-hospital adverse outcomes was not associated with an increase in the MACE rate (log-rank p = 0.857).
CONCLUSION: In-hospital adverse outcomes are higher in patients with more complex target vessel anatomies as indicated by a higher tvSS. Bailout RA and reduced LVEF emerged as additional predictors of in-hospital adverse outcomes.

Citation: Mankerious N, et al. Predictors of In-Hospital Adverse Outcomes after Rotational Atherectomy: Impact of the Target Vessel SYNTAX Score. Predictors of In-Hospital Adverse Outcomes after Rotational Atherectomy: Impact of the Target Vessel SYNTAX Score. 2020; 21:754-759. doi: 10.1016/j.carrev.2020.02.020

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32139281/
