PMID: 32149070
Title: Rescue treatment and follow-up intervention of a left main acute myocardial infarction with typical carina shift under 3D optical coherence tomography: A case report.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Coronary intervention for bifurcation lesions is still challenging for interventional cardiologists. Left main (LM) bifurcation lesions have a higher risk due to the vast blood supply in this area and treatment choice is difficult. Ostial compromise of the side branch decreases patient prognosis, and its management is still an issue despite the different strategies and devices available.
CASE SUMMARY: A 42-year-old male patient was admitted to hospital due to chest pain and syncope. Coronary angiography showed acute LM occlusion. Following thrombus aspiration, a LM bifurcation lesion remained. Coronary angiography was repeated one week later, and at the same time, 3D optical coherence tomography (OCT) was carried out to better show the geometry of the bifurcation, which confirmed that the stenosis in the ostial left circumflex artery was caused by a long carina. After assessment of the plaque characteristics and the minimum lumen area, the cross-over strategy, kissing balloon inflation and proximal optimization technique were chosen to treat the bifurcation lesion. A "moving" carina was found twice during the intervention. Good stent apposition and expansion were confirmed by OCT after proximal optimization technique. The three-month follow-up showed good recovery and normal cardiac function.
CONCLUSION: 3D-OCT can facilitate decision-making for coronary interventions in patients with critical bifurcation lesions.

Citation: Du BB, et al. Rescue treatment and follow-up intervention of a left main acute myocardial infarction with typical carina shift under 3D optical coherence tomography: A case report. Rescue treatment and follow-up intervention of a left main acute myocardial infarction with typical carina shift under 3D optical coherence tomography: A case report. 2020; 8:848-853. doi: 10.12998/wjcc.v8.i4.848

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32149070/
