PMID: 32140710
Title: Computed Poststenotic Flow Instabilities Correlate Phenotypically With Vibrations Measured Using Laser Doppler Vibrometry: Perspectives for a Promising In Vivo Device for Early Detection of Moderate and Severe Carotid Stenosis.

Abstract: Early detection of asymptomatic carotid stenosis is crucial for treatment planning in the prevention of ischemic stroke. Auscultation, the current first-line screening methodology, comes with severe limitations that create urge for novel and robust techniques. Laser Doppler vibrometer (LDV) is a promising tool for inferring carotid stenosis by measuring stenosis-induced vibrations. The goal of the current study was to evaluate the feasibility of LDV for carotid stenosis detection. LDV measurements on a carotid phantom were used to validate our previously verified high-resolution computational fluid dynamics methodology, which was used to evaluate the impact of flowrate, flow split, and stenosis severity on the poststenotic intensity of flow instabilities (IFI). We evaluated sensitivity, specificity, and accuracy of using IFI for stenoses detection. Linear regression analyses showed that computationally derived pressure fluctuations correlated (R2 = 0.98) with LDV measurements of stenosis-induced vibrations. The flowrate of stenosed vessels correlated (R2 = 0.90) with the presence of poststenotic instabilities. Receiver operating characteristic analyses of power spectra revealed that the most relevant frequency bands for the detection of moderate (56-76%) and severe (86-96%) stenoses were 80-200 Hz and 0-40 Hz, respectively. Moderate stenosis was identified with sensitivity and specificity of 90%; values decreased to 70% for severe stenosis. The use of LDV as screening tool for asymptomatic stenosis can potentially provide improved accuracy of current screening methodologies for early detection. The applicability of this promising device for mass screening is currently being evaluated clinically.

Citation: Mancini V, et al. Computed Poststenotic Flow Instabilities Correlate Phenotypically With Vibrations Measured Using Laser Doppler Vibrometry: Perspectives for a Promising In Vivo Device for Early Detection of Moderate and Severe Carotid Stenosis. Computed Poststenotic Flow Instabilities Correlate Phenotypically With Vibrations Measured Using Laser Doppler Vibrometry: Perspectives for a Promising In Vivo Device for Early Detection of Moderate and Severe Carotid Stenosis. 2020; 142:(unknown pages). doi: 10.1115/1.4046586

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32140710/
