PMID: 32155164
Title: Clinical impact of pathology-proven etiology of severely stenotic aortic valves on mid-term outcomes in patients undergoing surgical aortic valve replacement.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: The use of transcatheter or surgical aortic valve replacement (AVR) for severe aortic stenosis (AS) has considerably increased in recent years. However, the association between AS etiology and mid-term clinical outcomes after surgical AVR has not been fully investigated.
METHODS AND RESULTS: We retrospectively included 201 patients (mean age, 75 years; 43%, men) who underwent surgical AVR for severe native AS (aortic valve area ≤1.0 cm2 on preoperative transthoracic echocardiography examination). The following valve etiologies were postoperatively identified on pathological examination: post-inflammatory (n = 28), congenital (n = 35), and calcific/degenerative (n = 138). The median follow-up interval was 4.1 years following surgical AVR. Of the 201 patients, 27% were asymptomatic, 40% had a history of heart failure, and 11% underwent previous heart surgery. The cumulative incidence of cardiac events (all-cause death, aortic valve deterioration requiring repeated AVR, and hospitalization for heart failure) and combined adverse events, which included non-fatal stroke, unplanned coronary revascularization, pacemaker implantation, and gastrointestinal bleeding along with cardiac events, was significantly higher in the calcific/degenerative group (p = 0.02 and p = 0.02, respectively). In multivariate analysis adjusted for age, sex, renal function, heart failure, atrial fibrillation, concomitant surgical procedures, and EuroSCORE II, AS etiology was independently associated with an increased risk of combined adverse events (congenital vs. post-inflammatory: hazard ratio [HR], 4.13; p = 0.02 and calcific/degenerative vs. post-inflammatory: HR, 5.69; p = 0.002).
CONCLUSIONS: Pathology-proven AS etiology could aid in predicting the mid-term outcomes after surgical AVR, supporting the importance of accurate identification of severe AS etiology with or without postoperative pathological examination.

Citation: Miura S, et al. Clinical impact of pathology-proven etiology of severely stenotic aortic valves on mid-term outcomes in patients undergoing surgical aortic valve replacement. Clinical impact of pathology-proven etiology of severely stenotic aortic valves on mid-term outcomes in patients undergoing surgical aortic valve replacement. 2020; 15:e0229721. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0229721

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32155164/
