PMID: 32151788
Title: Multiple ulcerations and perforation in the small intestine after steroid treatment in eosinophilic granulomatosis with polyangiitis: a case report and literature review.

Abstract: Eosinophilic granulomatosis with polyangiitis (EGPA), formerly called Churg-Strauss syndrome, is an uncommon disease with pathological features consisting of systemic necrotizing vasculitis, eosinophilic infiltration, and granulomatous or nongranulomatous extravascular eosinophilic inflammation. EGPA preferentially affects certain organ systems, including the airways, peripheral nerves, heart, kidney, and gastrointestinal tract. Although gastrointestinal involvement, such as ulcerations, is common in EGPA, gastrointestinal perforation is relatively uncommon and is associated with a poor prognosis. Ulceration, perforation, and stenosis of the gastrointestinal tract are assumed to be the result of ischemia caused by vasculitis. The histological finding in the biopsy specimens of EGPA is generally only eosinophil infiltration, and vasculitis is not often seen. Therefore, in biopsy specimens, it is difficult to distinguish eosinophilic gastroenteritis from the gastrointestinal involvement of EGPA. In addition, in general, steroid therapy is the first-choice treatment for EGPA, but some reports have described the frequent occurrence of acute ulcer or perforation of the gastrointestinal tract in association with steroid treatment. We herein report an EGPA patient who was treated with steroid therapy and subsequently developed perforation of the small intestine.

Citation: Ito Y, et al. Multiple ulcerations and perforation in the small intestine after steroid treatment in eosinophilic granulomatosis with polyangiitis: a case report and literature review. Multiple ulcerations and perforation in the small intestine after steroid treatment in eosinophilic granulomatosis with polyangiitis: a case report and literature review. 2020; 47:107193. doi: 10.1016/j.carpath.2019.107193

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32151788/
