PMID: 32153091
Title: A simple, refined approach to diagnosing renovascular hypertension in children: A 10-year study.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Despite advances in non-invasive vascular imaging, detection of renal artery stenosis via catheter angiography is the criterion standard for the diagnosis of renovascular hypertension (RVH). However, because of lack of evidence, the utility of various blood tests and imaging modalities remains unclear.
METHODS: We retrospectively analyzed the utility of blood tests (plasma renin activity [PRA], aldosterone, and renal vein renin [RVR] values) and imaging studies (computed tomography angiography [CTA], kidney ultrasonography [US]) by comparing them with catheter angiography. Ten pediatric patients with RVH at two institutions from January 2008 to December 2017 were recruited. The sensitivities for diagnosing RVH via imaging and blood tests (kidney [US], PRA, and aldosterone) were derived by examining patient records. Furthermore, the sensitivity and specificity of CT angiography were calculated by considering both the affected and non-affected renal arteries of the patients.
RESULTS: A high sensitivity for diagnosing RVH via kidney US (89%) and PRA (80%) was observed. The sensitivity and specificity of CTA were 100%, each. RVR sampling did not aid in the diagnosis of RVH; only two of six patients with unilateral RVH showed significant laterality of RVR boundary ratios. Renal scintigraphy facilitated detection of a non-functional kidney (split renal function <5%).
CONCLUSIONS: RVH in children could be diagnosed utilizing non-invasive blood and imaging tests, without catheter angiography. We recommend kidney length measurement along with measurement of PRA level, as a simple and highly useful screening test, followed by CTA as a diagnostic test.

Citation: Saida K, et al. A simple, refined approach to diagnosing renovascular hypertension in children: A 10-year study. A simple, refined approach to diagnosing renovascular hypertension in children: A 10-year study. 2020; 62:937-943. doi: 10.1111/ped.14224

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32153091/
