PMID: 32156472
Title: Childhood and adolescent idiopathic urethritis: what does the current literature say?

Abstract: INTRODUCTION: Idiopathic urethritis (IU) is a known entity in the childhood and adolescent age groups and is described as blood spotting of the underwear in these populations. Typically, IU presents clinically as terminal void haematuria or blood spotting, accompanied with dysuria, occasional suprapubic pain and rarely constitutional symptoms. Sometimes IU may progress to formation of urethral strictures. It carries a high morbidity because of its chronicity and recurrent course, which often persists to puberty. In spite of no single aetiology being confirmed, several treatment approaches have shown some efficacy. Although no consensus has yet been established, the consideration of previous authors' experience and expertise may contribute to the development of a possible unified algorithm.
AIM: This article considers IU, collecting pertinent data and case series from the literature. The authors attempt to describe all presumptive aetiologies, endoscopic findings with established grading classifications and finally the various treatment modalities proposed. In addition, highlights from the senior's author experience regarding this entity including endoscopic, radiographic and histological images are mentioned.
METHODS: Retrospective review and analysis of all relevant articles present on PubMed, SCOPUS and Cochrane Library from the time of inception to the date of first submission.
RESULTS: A total of 19 series concerning IU have been reported since year 1971 to present time (Table 1). Many aetiologies have been postulated, but some have been refuted, including infectious pathogens. Children with dysfunctional voiding and meatal stenosis are more prone to exhibit IU. A variation in the urethral milieu during the prepubertal period, secondary to systematic hormonal alteration, may lead to squamous cell metaplasia resulting in IU and possible urethral strictures. Grading classifications for IU are described. Up to 20% of IU may develop urethral strictures. Various treatment approaches are discussed.
CONCLUSION: A summary of current understanding of the pathogenesis and spectrum of IU has been achieved. Successful treatment can be achieved with steroids and dysfunctional voiding protocols. It may be possible to develop a consensus unified management algorithm.

Citation: Degheili JA and Dickson AP. Childhood and adolescent idiopathic urethritis: what does the current literature say?. Childhood and adolescent idiopathic urethritis: what does the current literature say?. 2020; 16:276-283. doi: 10.1016/j.jpurol.2020.02.001

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32156472/
