PMID: 32169619
Title: Filum Terminale Arteriovenous Fistula in Association with Degenerative Lumbosacral Spinal Canal Stenosis: Report of 3 Cases and Review of the Literature.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Filum terminale arteriovenous fistulas (FTAVFs) are rare, and the pathogenesis of these fistulas remains unclear. They may be either congenital or acquired in origin. The authors report 3 cases of FTAVFs in association with severe spinal canal stenosis. The authors also review literature of FTAVFs associated with spinal canal stenosis.
CASE DESCRIPTION: All 3 cases harboring FTAVFs manifested with progressive myelopathy and bowel/bladder dysfunction following long history of back pain, sciatica, and/or intermittent claudication. The fistulas were located around or at the level of spinal canal stenosis and supplied by the anterior spinal and/or lateral sacral arteries with cranial drainage from the dilated vein of the filum terminale to the perimedullary veins. The first and third cases were treated concomitantly by performing instrumented fusion with decompressive laminectomy along with occlusion of the fistula with good results. The second case was unsuccessfully treated by endovascular treatment through the lateral sacral artery and denied further surgical treatment.
CONCLUSIONS: Our 3 case reports may provide additional evidence supporting an acquired etiology of FTAVFs, probably secondary to the severe central canal stenosis. From our review, the level of the fistulas in most patients is correlated with the level of spinal canal stenosis. The authors preferred the concomitant surgical treatment by performing decompressive laminectomy and obliteration of the fistula in the same surgical session.

Citation: Iampreechakul P, et al. Filum Terminale Arteriovenous Fistula in Association with Degenerative Lumbosacral Spinal Canal Stenosis: Report of 3 Cases and Review of the Literature. Filum Terminale Arteriovenous Fistula in Association with Degenerative Lumbosacral Spinal Canal Stenosis: Report of 3 Cases and Review of the Literature. 2020; 138:231-241. doi: 10.1016/j.wneu.2020.03.011

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32169619/
