PMID: 32166547
Title: Two-stage hybrid Ivor-Lewis esophagectomy as surgical strategy to reduce postoperative morbidity for high-risk patients.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Ivor-Lewis esophagectomy (ILE) is the standard surgical care for esophageal cancer patients but postoperative morbidity impairs quality of life and reduces long-term oncological outcome. Two-stage ILE separating the abdominal and thoracic phase into two distinct surgical procedures has proven to enhance microcirculation of the gastric conduit and therefore most likely reduces complications. However, two-stage ILE has not been evaluated systematically in selected groups of patients scheduled for this procedure. This investigation aims to demonstrate the feasibility of two-stage ILE in high-risk patients.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: In this retrospective analysis of data obtained from a prospective database, a consecutive series of 275 hybrid ILE (hILE) were included. Patients were divided into two groups based on one- or two-stage hILE. Postoperative complications were assessed according to ECCG (Esophageal Complication Consensus Group) criteria and compared using the Clavien-Dindo score. Indication for two-stage esophagectomy was classified as pre- or intraoperative decision.
RESULTS: 34 out of 275 patients (12.7%) underwent two-stage hILE. Patients of the two-stage group were significantly older. In 21 of 34 patients (61.8%) the decision for a two-stage procedure was made prior to esophagectomy, in 13 (38.2%) patients intraoperatively after completion of the laparoscopic gastric mobilization. The most frequent preoperative reason to select the two-stage procedure was a stenosis of the coeliac trunc and superior mesenteric artery (n = 10). The predominant cause for an intraoperative change of strategy was a laparoscopically diagnosed hepatic fibrosis/cirrhosis (n = 5).Overall morbidity and major' complications (CD > IIIa) were comparable for both groups (11.7% in both groups). The overall anastomotic leak rate was 12.4% and was non-significant lower for the two-stage procedure.
CONCLUSION: Two-stage hILE is a feasible concept to individualize the surgical treatment of patients with well-defined clinical risk factors for postoperative morbidity. It can also be applied after completion of the abdominal phase of IL esophagectomy without compromising the patient safety.

Citation: Bartella I, et al. Two-stage hybrid Ivor-Lewis esophagectomy as surgical strategy to reduce postoperative morbidity for high-risk patients. Two-stage hybrid Ivor-Lewis esophagectomy as surgical strategy to reduce postoperative morbidity for high-risk patients. 2021; 35:1182-1189. doi: 10.1007/s00464-020-07485-9

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32166547/
