PMID: 32178627
Title: A rare cause of dysphagia due to esophageal intramural pseudodiverticulosis: a case report and review of literature.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Esophageal intramural pseudodiverticulosis is an uncommon, idiopathic disorder characterized by multiple small outpouchings protruding from the esophageal lumen. Esophageal intramural pseudodiverticulosis is associated with conditions such as gastroesophageal reflux disease and diabetes mellitus, as well as emergent complications including pneumomediastinum. The most common presenting symptom is dysphagia with associated esophageal stricture formation. While the pathogenesis of EIP has yet to be determined, it is important to bring awareness to this unique disease with distinctive diagnostic findings and treatment options.
CASE PRESENTATION: In this case, we present a 62-year-old woman who suffered from dysphagia, an inability to tolerate a regular diet, and unintentional weight loss for several years prior to her diagnoses. She was diagnosed by esophagram and esophagogastroduodenoscopy to have esophageal intramural pseudodiverticulosis, complicated by severe stricture formation. Following treatment with sequential dilatation and maintenance H2-blocker therapy, she achieved significant symptomatic improvement.
CONCLUSIONS: This case highlights the importance of accurate identification and treatment of an uncommon cause of dysphagia, esophageal intramural pseudodiverticulosis. Treatment includes dilatational therapy, as successfully demonstrated in our patient. Furthermore, treatment is focused on optimizing medical management, as demonstrated in our patient with the addition of an H2-blocker for GERD, or addressing potentially serious underlying causes, such as carcinoma, with surgery.

Citation: Ali O, et al. A rare cause of dysphagia due to esophageal intramural pseudodiverticulosis: a case report and review of literature. A rare cause of dysphagia due to esophageal intramural pseudodiverticulosis: a case report and review of literature. 2020; 20:72. doi: 10.1186/s12876-020-01209-y

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32178627/
