PMID: 32172251
Title: Treatment Algorithms for Crohn's Disease.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Treatment of Crohn's disease (CD) patients is complex as therapy choices depend on a variety of factors, such as location and severity of inflammation, disease behavior (inflammatory, stricturing or penetrating) but also comorbidities, extra-intestinal manifestations, the patient's age, and previous therapies. Subsequently, the choice of treatment should be tailored to the individual patient.
SUMMARY: This article gives the reader therapy algorithms as a guide through different CD scenarios to support the physician's decision making. New compounds introduced in CD therapy in recent years justify such an update on standard approaches. Ustekinumab and vedolizumab and their positions within the treatment options are discussed. Fistulizing perianal disease and postoperative medical prophylaxis are depicted in separate chapters with own algorithms. Key Messages: In recent years, a variety of new drugs became available to treat patients with CD - especially those who are antitumor necrosis factor (TNF) experienced with ongoing inflammation. The definitive role of vedolizumab and ustekinumab is not yet fully clarified. However, with the advantage of good safety profiles over TNF-inhibitors, these drugs will be more frequently used in the near future, also as first-line biologicals, compared to TNF-inhibitors. Concerning treatment of fistulizing disease, the knowledge of the exact anatomy of the fistula is of major importance. An interdisciplinary discussion involving gastroenterologists, surgeons, and in some cases gynecologists may help to optimize the treatment plan. Regarding the postsurgical setting in CD patients, according to the very recent Cochrane Network meta-analysis, mesalazine should be at least positioned equivalent to thiopurines and TNF-inhibitors, as shown in our algorithm.

Citation: Sulz MC, et al. Treatment Algorithms for Crohn's Disease. Treatment Algorithms for Crohn's Disease. 2020; 101 Suppl 1:43-57. doi: 10.1159/000506364

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32172251/
