PMID: 32175790
Title: Single pedicle advancement flap for treatment of feline stenotic nares: technique and results in five cases.

Abstract: OBJECTIVES: Brachycephalic obstructive airway syndrome (BOAS) is a common cause of upper airway obstruction in dogs, but is appreciated less commonly in cats. Of the components of BOAS, stenotic nares appear to play a major role in cats. However, the axial deviation of the alar wing, a common cause of nasal obstruction in dogs, is typically not present. We report a series of brachycephalic cats with a ventral nasal obstruction resulting from redundant skin along the floor of the nares. In these cats, surgical techniques developed for dogs were felt to be suboptimal. Our aim is to describe a novel surgical procedure designed specifically to surgically correct stenotic nares in cats with an obstructive fold of skin ventral to the nostril.
METHODS: Five brachycephalic cats presenting for clinical signs of stenotic nares underwent surgical repair. In each case, a resection of the skin fold followed by a bilateral single pedicle advancement flap technique was performed. Postoperative outcomes were obtained by contacting owners by telephone.
RESULTS: All cats had positive outcomes, resulting in immediate reduction of the nasal fold and opening of the nares. Owners noted resolution of stertor and no episodes of respiratory distress. No surgical complications were reported.
CONCLUSIONS AND RELEVANCE: In brachycephalic cats, the ventral skin fold may be a significant contributor to stenotic nares, unlike dogs. Resection of the skin fold, followed by bilateral single pedicle advancement flaps is a novel technique and appeared to be successful for treating stenotic nares in this series of brachycephalic cats.

Citation: Berns CN, et al. Single pedicle advancement flap for treatment of feline stenotic nares: technique and results in five cases. Single pedicle advancement flap for treatment of feline stenotic nares: technique and results in five cases. 2020; 22:1238-1242. doi: 10.1177/1098612X20910539

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32175790/
