PMID: 32172461
Title: Prophylactic steroid administration against strictures is not enough for mucosal defects involving the entire circumference of the esophageal lumen after esophageal endoscopic submucosal dissection (ESD).

Abstract: BACKGROUNDS: The width of mucosal defects after endoscopic submucosal dissection (ESD) of esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (ESCC) is known to be a risk factor for esophageal strictures. Although steroid injection and oral steroid have recently been reported as prophylactic treatments, these were shown to be ineffective in a subset of patients with post-ESD mucosal defects involving the entire circumference of the esophagus. The aim of this study was to demonstrate outcome with prophylactic steroid administration for post-ESD mucosal defects involving the entire circumference, and to explore risk factors for esophageal strictures except for circumference of the esophagus.
METHODS: Between November 2012 and August 2018, we enrolled patients with post-ESD mucosal defects involving the entire circumference of the esophagus who had received steroid injection (triamcinolone acetonide 50-100 mg, given immediately after ESD) followed by oral steroid (prednisolone 30 mg/day, tapered gradually over 8 weeks) as prophylactic treatment. Esophageal stricture was defined as case where ordinary-sized endoscope could not pass through post-ESD site, thus requiring endoscopic balloon dilation (EBD) repeatedly until relief of stricture was achieved. We retrospectively evaluated the rates of strictures, refractory strictures (requiring ≥ 6 EBD procedures) and unimproved strictures (not improvable by repeated EBD alone) and explored risk factors for strictures.
RESULTS: A total of 26 patients met the including criteria. The rates of strictures, refractory strictures, and unimproved strictures were 62%, 38%, and 12%, respectively. The pre-ESD longitudinal extension of the lesion > 5 cm was identified as a risk factor for refractory strictures, suggesting that lesions with this factor had a shorter time to stricture development, required more EBD procedures, and longer EBD durations.
CONCLUSION: Although additional study is required in a larger number of patients, careful consideration needs to be given to ESD as an indication for large spreading ESCC involving the entire circumference of esophagus given its high stricture risk.

Citation: Kadota T, et al. Prophylactic steroid administration against strictures is not enough for mucosal defects involving the entire circumference of the esophageal lumen after esophageal endoscopic submucosal dissection (ESD). Prophylactic steroid administration against strictures is not enough for mucosal defects involving the entire circumference of the esophageal lumen after esophageal endoscopic submucosal dissection (ESD). 2020; 17:440-447. doi: 10.1007/s10388-020-00730-z

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32172461/
