PMID: 32187045
Title: Advancements in medical and surgical treatments of Takayasu arteritis-induced renal arteritis: a systematic review.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Takayasu arteritis-induced renal arteritis (TARA), commonly seen in Takayasu arteritis (TA), has become one of the main causes of poor prognosis and early mortality in patients with TA. TARA progressing into Takayasu arteritis-induced renal artery stenosis (TARAS), could lead to severe complications including malignant hypertension, cardiac-cerebral vascular disease, and ischemic nephropathy. Since there existed no guidelines on treatments, this study aimed to review the comprehensive treatments for TARA.
METHODS: We searched systematically in databases including PubMed, Ovid-Medline, EMBASE, Web of Science, China National Knowledge Infrastructure, Wanfang, and SinoMed, from inception to May 2018. Literature selection, data extraction, and statistical analysis were performed.
RESULTS: Eighty-two literatures were recruited focusing on medical treatments (n = 34) and surgical treatments (n = 48). We found that combined medical treatments of glucocorticoids and conventional synthetic disease-modifying anti-rheumatic drugs could reach high rates of remission in patients with TARA, and biological disease-modifying anti-rheumatic drugs were preferred for refractory patients. After remission induction, surgical treatment could help reconstruct renal artery and recover renal function partly. Percutaneous transluminal angioplasty was the first choice for patients with TARAS, while open surgery showed a good long-term survival.
CONCLUSIONS: Patients with TARA should benefit both from medical treatments and from surgical treatments comprehensively and sequentially. Multidisciplinary team coordination is recommended especially in patients with severe complications.

Citation: Dai XM, et al. Advancements in medical and surgical treatments of Takayasu arteritis-induced renal arteritis: a systematic review. Advancements in medical and surgical treatments of Takayasu arteritis-induced renal arteritis: a systematic review. 2020; 133:975-981. doi: 10.1097/CM9.0000000000000704

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32187045/
