PMID: 32183730
Title: A unique temporary collateral pathway between carotid-vertebrobasilar arteries in a carotid dissection patient.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: In adults, the anastomosis between carotid and vertebrobasilar arteries is usually the posterior communicating artery, sometimes the primitive trigeminal artery. In this case, the basilar artery fed the internal carotid artery through the pontine-to-tentorial artery anastomosis after severe stenosis from traumatic carotid dissection.
CASE PRESENTATION: A 32-year-old female was diagnosed with ischemic stroke caused by traumatic carotid artery dissection. Aspirin (100 mg/day) and clopidogrel (75 mg/day) were prescribed. Digital subtraction angiography performed 6 days after stroke onset showed a dissection in the cervical segment of left internal carotid artery with severe local stenosis, and a collateral pathway from BA to the cavernous segment of internal carotid artery through the lateral pontine and tentorial artery. Without interventional therapy, clinical symptoms improved significantly within 10 days after onset. At 3-month follow-up, left common carotid artery angiography showed the stenosis had been significantly improved with a residual aneurysm. There was no collateral pathway between carotid-vertebrobasilar arteries, and a residual small artery originated from the posterior vertical segment of cavernous internal carotid artery. The small artery was clearly visualized by 3-dimensional rotational angiography and identified the tentorial artery.
CONCLUSION: To the author's knowledge, this is the first report of a collateral pathway between carotid vertebrobasilar arteries through the pontine-to-tentorial artery anastomosis. Meanwhile, tentorial artery origination directly from the cavernous segment of internal carotid artery is rare and easily mistaken for persistent primitive trigeminal artery. 3-dimensional rotational angiography can provide sensitive and accurate diagnostic assessment of the small artery, and may be a useful tool for screening of abnormal small arteries.

Citation: Liu X, et al. A unique temporary collateral pathway between carotid-vertebrobasilar arteries in a carotid dissection patient. A unique temporary collateral pathway between carotid-vertebrobasilar arteries in a carotid dissection patient. 2020; 20:97. doi: 10.1186/s12883-020-01651-1

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32183730/
