PMID: 32183204
Title: Association between Pericytes in Intraplaque Neovessels and Magnetic Resonance Angiography Findings.

Abstract: (1) Background: Pericytes are involved in intraplaque neovascularization of advanced and complicated atherosclerotic lesions. However, the role of pericytes in human carotid plaques is unclear. An unstable carotid plaque that shows high-intensity signals on time-of-flight (TOF) magnetic resonance angiography (MRA) is often a cause of ischemic stroke. The aim of the present study is to examine the relationship between the pericytes in intraplaque neovessels and MRA findings. (2) Methods: A total of 46 patients with 49 carotid artery stenoses who underwent carotid endarterectomy at our hospitals were enrolled. The patients with carotid plaques that were histopathologically evaluated were retrospectively analyzed. Intraplaque hemorrhage was evaluated using glycophorin A staining, and intraplaque neovessels were evaluated using CD34 (Cluster of differentiation) stain as an endothelial cell marker or NG2 (Neuron-glial antigen 2) and CD146 stains as pericyte markers. Additionally, the relationships between the TOF-MRA findings and the carotid plaque pathologies were evaluated. (3) Results: Of the 49 stenoses, 28 had high-intensity signals (TOF-HIS group) and 21 had iso-intensity signals (TOF-IIS group) on TOF-MRA. The density of the CD34-positive neovessels was equivalent in both groups. However, the NG2- and CD146-positive neovessels had significantly higher densities in the TOF-HIS group than in the TOF-IIS group. (4) Conclusion: The presence of a high-intensity signal on TOF-MRA in carotid plaques was associated with intraplaque hemorrhage and few pericytes in intraplaque neovessels. These findings may contribute to the development of new therapeutic strategies focusing on pericytes.

Citation: Ogata A, et al. Association between Pericytes in Intraplaque Neovessels and Magnetic Resonance Angiography Findings. Association between Pericytes in Intraplaque Neovessels and Magnetic Resonance Angiography Findings. 2020; 21:(unknown pages). doi: 10.3390/ijms21061980

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32183204/
