PMID: 32192600
Title: Single port laparoscopy combined with vaginal cervicovaginal reconstruction in a patient with congenital atresia of the cervix.

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: To introduce an innovation that combines single port laparoscopic and Wharton-Sheares-George cervicovaginal reconstruction using a small intestinal submucosa (SIS) graft in a patient with congenital cervical atresia, absence of vagina, and incomplete uterine septum (U2aC4V4).
DESIGN: Video article introducing a new surgical technique.
SETTING: University hospital.
PATIENT(S): A 15-year-old patient with congenital cervical atresia, absence of vagina, and incomplete uterine septum had primary amenorrhea and cyclic lower abdominal pain. The magnetic resonance imaging did not show hematometra and the endometrium was 6 mm when she had lower abdominal pain.
INTERVENTION(S): A neovagina (depth, 7 cm; width, 2.5 cm) was created using the Wharton-Sheares-George neovaginoplasty. By single laparoscopy, the bladder was separated from the anterior surface of the uterus. With the mold in the neovagina created by the assistant, the apex of neovagina was opened. Then the lower uterine segment was exposed and incised. A T-shaped intrauterine device was connected to an 8-cm-long catheter scissored from a 14-F Foley catheter and was inserted into the uterus to prevent cervical or vaginal stenosis. The upper end of the graft was applied onto the lower uterine segment with delayed absorbable sutures. The lower end was sutured to the high vaginal or vestibular mucosa.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE(S): The feasibility and effect of combination single port laparoscopic with vaginal cervicovaginal reconstruction in the congenital atresia of cervix.
RESULT(S): The operation was successful. The operating time was 90 minutes. Hospitalization was 3 days. There were no intraoperative and postoperative complications. The patient had resumption of menses at three cycles postoperatively, and she had no dysmenorrhea. No cervical or vaginal stenosis occurred because of the Foley catheter.
CONCLUSION(S): Single port laparoscopic combined with vaginal cervicovaginal reconstruction provided a minimally invasive, safe, and effective surgical option for the young patient with congenital atresia of cervix. It was successful and without complications or cervical or vaginal stenosis.

Citation: Zhang X, et al. Single port laparoscopy combined with vaginal cervicovaginal reconstruction in a patient with congenital atresia of the cervix. Single port laparoscopy combined with vaginal cervicovaginal reconstruction in a patient with congenital atresia of the cervix. 2020; 113:681-682. doi: 10.1016/j.fertnstert.2019.11.011

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32192600/
