PMID: 32206636
Title: Recurrent Klebsiella pneumoniae Infection Causing Transcatheter Aortic Valve Implantation (TAVI)-Related Endocarditis.

Abstract: UNLABELLED: The authors report the case of an 86-year-old woman presenting with recurrent Klebsiella pneumoniae bacteraemia. She had severe aortic stenosis submitted to a recent transcatheter aortic valve implantation (TAVI). Initially, Klebsiella pneumoniae bacteraemia from a urinary source was diagnosed. Following another 4 episodes of bacteraemia with the same agent, the source was ultimately found to be a periprosthetic abscess. Considering the patient's unsuitability for surgery, a decision was made for life-long antimicrobial therapy. This approach has been successful in preventing recurrences or complications. Endocarditis is one of the most severe complications seen following TAVI, often carrying a poor prognosis. Even though Klebsiella spp. are common pathogens for healthcare-associated infections among the elderly, they are seldom the causative agent for endocarditis. Being the first reported case of TAVI-related Klebsiella endocarditis, it was successfully managed using a medical approach.
LEARNING POINTS: Non-HACEK Gram-negative bacilli are organisms infrequently found to cause infective endocarditis (IE). This is the first reported case of transcatheter aortic valve implantation (TAVI)-related Klebsiella IE.Diagnosing an infectious complication associated with procedural or prosthetic material is not always straightforward; a high level of suspicion and a systematic approach are essential.Most cases of TAVI-related IE are ineligible for surgery due to a prohibitive procedural risk. Long-term antibiotic therapy may be a suitable alternative for patients with uncontrolled infection considered unfit for surgery.

Citation: Tosatto V, et al. Recurrent Klebsiella pneumoniae Infection Causing Transcatheter Aortic Valve Implantation (TAVI)-Related Endocarditis. Recurrent Klebsiella pneumoniae Infection Causing Transcatheter Aortic Valve Implantation (TAVI)-Related Endocarditis. 2020; 7:001379. doi: 10.12890/2020_001379

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32206636/
