PMID: 32208299
Title: A retrospective regional study of aqueduct stenosis and fourth ventricle outflow obstruction in the paediatric complex neurofibromatosis type 1 population; Aetiology, clinical presentation and management.

Abstract: OBJECTIVES: Aqueduct stenosis (AS) and fourth ventricle outflow obstruction are rare associations of neurofibromatosis type 1 (NF1), resulting in ventriculomegaly and hydrocephalus requiring surgical treatment. This study aims to identify the prevalence of AS and its patterns of clinical presentation, aetiology and treatment in the paediatric complex NF1 population.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Patients with NF-1 aged 0-18 years were recruited from the Regional Genetic Family Register, following institutional review board approval. Magnetic resonance imaging data and clinical documents were reviewed with respect to clinical presentation, degree of ventriculomegaly, aetiological factors and management of AS and fourth ventricle outflow obstruction.
RESULTS: 24 of the 233 paediatric patients seen within the NHS highly specialised service for complex NF1 were found to have AS or and fourth ventricle outflow obstruction. This included 13 males and 11 females with a mean age of 9 years 5 months (range 8 months - 17 years). The majority of patients with AS or fourth ventricle outflow obstruction presented with symptoms of raised intracranial pressure associated with ventriculomegaly and/or hydrocephalus (n = 18). However, in 25 % of patients, AS was an incidental finding on MRI and was observed both in the presence (n = 2) and absence (n = 4) of ventriculomegaly. In the majority of cases a single cause of AS was identified (n = 16), of which tectal plate thickening (n = 7) was most frequently observed. The remaining 8 patients had multiple causes of AS, in which tectal plate thickening (n = 7) and aqueductal webs (n = 5) were the most common observations. Surgery was performed on all patients with evidence of raised pressure (n = 8) by performing endoscopic third ventriculostomy (ETV) (n = 5) or ventriculoperitoneal (VP)-shunting (n = 3). Tectal plate thickening was most frequently observed in patients who underwent ETV (n = 3), followed by aqueductal web (n = 1) and T2-signal changes in the tectal plate (n = 1). Patients treated with VP-shunt had 4th ventricle outflow obstruction (n = 2) and a tectal plate tumour (n = 1).
CONCLUSION: This study identifies that AS is more prevalent amongst the paediatric complex NF-1 population than previously reported, occurring in 10 % of cases. Our findings demonstrate that AS is most commonly symptomatic in presentation but can be asymptomatic in 25 % of paediatric complex NF1 patients. In this population, AS can occur both in the presence and absence of ventriculomegaly and therefore requires careful monitoring for development of hydrocephalus. In this study, over one third of patients (9 of 24 patients) with AS eventually required treatment.

Citation: Murphy C, et al. A retrospective regional study of aqueduct stenosis and fourth ventricle outflow obstruction in the paediatric complex neurofibromatosis type 1 population; Aetiology, clinical presentation and management. A retrospective regional study of aqueduct stenosis and fourth ventricle outflow obstruction in the paediatric complex neurofibromatosis type 1 population; Aetiology, clinical presentation and management. 2020; 193:105791. doi: 10.1016/j.clineuro.2020.105791

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32208299/
