PMID: 32205024
Title: Experimental analysis of pulsatile flow characteristics in prosthetic aortic valve models with stenosis.

Abstract: Bioprosthetic valves are widely used for aortic valve replacements for patients with severe aortic diseases. However, tissue-engineered leaflets normally deteriorate over time due to calcification, leading to life-threatening conditions that would require re-operation. The hemodynamics induced by a prosthetic stenosis is complicated and not fully understood. This in vitro experimental study focuses on the fluid dynamics of two aortic valve models with different prosthetic stenosis conditions. An in vitro cardiovascular flow simulator was utilized to provide the pulsatile physiological flow conditions. Phase-locked particle image velocimetry (PIV) and high-frequency pressure sensors were employed to measure the flow fields and pressure waveforms. Pressure data were evaluated for the two models representing moderate and severe stenosis conditions, respectively. The severe prosthetic stenosis induced a prolonged ejection period and increased acceleration time ratio. PIV results suggest the severe prosthetic stenosis resulted in a two-fold increase in peak jet velocity and a three-fold increase in peak turbulence kinetic energy compared to the moderate stenosis case. The severe stenosis also caused rapid expansion of the jet downstream of the valve orifice and increased eccentricity of the jet flow. The maximum Reynolds shear stress in the severe stenosis case was found similar to the bileaflet mechanical valve reported by previous literature, which was below the risk threshold of blood cell damage but could potentially increase the risks of platelet activation and aggregation.

Citation: Zhang R and Zhang Y. Experimental analysis of pulsatile flow characteristics in prosthetic aortic valve models with stenosis. Experimental analysis of pulsatile flow characteristics in prosthetic aortic valve models with stenosis. 2020; 79:10-18. doi: 10.1016/j.medengphy.2020.03.004

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32205024/
