PMID: 32213061
Title: Nomenclature and semantic descriptions of ulcerative and inflammatory lesions seen in Crohn's disease in small bowel capsule endoscopy: An international Delphi consensus statement.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: In the medical literature, the nomenclature and descriptions (ND) of small bowel (SB) ulcerative and inflammatory (U-I) lesions in capsule endoscopy (CE) are scarce and inconsistent. Inter-observer variability in interpreting these findings remains a major limitation in the assessment of the severity of mucosal lesions, which can impact negatively on clinical care, training and research on SB-CE.
OBJECTIVE: Focusing on SB-CE in Crohn's disease (CD), our aim is to establish a consensus on the ND of U-I lesions.
METHODS: An international panel of experienced SB-CE readers was formed during the 2016 United European Gastroenterology Week meeting. A core group of five CE and inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) experts established an Internet-based, three-round Delphi consensus but did not participate in the voting process. The core group built illustrated questionnaires, including SB-CE still frames of U-I lesions from patients with documented CD. Twenty-seven other experts were asked to rate and comment on the different proposals for the ND of the most frequent SB U-I lesions. For each round, we used a 6-point rating scale (varying from 'strongly disagree' to 'strongly agree'). The consensus was reached when at least 80 % of the voting members scored the statement within the 'agree' or 'strongly agree' categories.
RESULTS: A 100% participation rate was obtained for all the rounds. Consensual ND were reached for the following seven U-I lesions: aphthoid erosion, deep ulceration, superficial ulceration, stenosis, edema, hyperemia and denudation.
CONCLUSION: Considering the most frequent SB U-I lesions seen in CE in CD, a consensual ND was reached by the international group of experts. These descriptions and names are useful not only for daily practice and medical education, but also for medical research.

Citation: Leenhardt R, et al. Nomenclature and semantic descriptions of ulcerative and inflammatory lesions seen in Crohn's disease in small bowel capsule endoscopy: An international Delphi consensus statement. Nomenclature and semantic descriptions of ulcerative and inflammatory lesions seen in Crohn's disease in small bowel capsule endoscopy: An international Delphi consensus statement. 2020; 8:99-107. doi: 10.1177/2050640619895864

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32213061/
