PMID: 32228256
Title: Effects of intervertebral distraction screw fixation of the lumbosacral joint on the adjacent lumbar segments in Beagles.

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: To investigate the effects of intervertebral distraction screw (IDS) fixation of the lumbosacral joint (LSJ) on the intervertebral foraminal area (IFA) and intervertebral stabilization of the LSJ and adjacent lumbar segments in dogs.
ANIMALS: 7 healthy Beagles.
PROCEDURES: Dorsal laminectomy was performed at the LSJ in each dog to expose the intervertebral disk. The IDS was then inserted into the L7-S1 disk. Computed tomography was performed before and after laminectomy and after IDS insertion (intact, laminectomy, and IDS conditions, respectively) to measure the intervertebral range of motion (ROM) and intervertebral distance (ID) at L7-S1, L6-7, and L5-6 with the LSJ in a flexed and extended position. The intervertebral foramina stenosis rate was calculated from the intervertebral foramina area in entrance, middle, and exit zones. Results were compared among conditions.
RESULTS: The ROM at L7-S1 after IDS insertion was lower than that observed before and after laminectomy; no other differences were identified among conditions. With the LSJ in the flexed position, the ID at L7-S1 was larger after IDS insertion than before and after laminectomy; no other differences in ID were identified. In all evaluated zones, the stenosis rate was lower after IDS insertion than before and after laminectomy. No differences in ROM, ID, and stenosis rate were identified among conditions at L6-7 or L5-6.
CONCLUSIONS AND CLINICAL RELEVANCE: Results suggested that IDS fixation of the LSJ restricted lumbosacral ROM and prevented decreases in lumbosacral ID and IFA in healthy dogs. There were no changes at L6-7 and L5-6.

Citation: Tanoue H, et al. Effects of intervertebral distraction screw fixation of the lumbosacral joint on the adjacent lumbar segments in Beagles. Effects of intervertebral distraction screw fixation of the lumbosacral joint on the adjacent lumbar segments in Beagles. 2020; 81:367-374. doi: 10.2460/ajvr.81.4.367

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32228256/
