PMID: 32229223
Title: Clinical features and prognosis of acute myocardial infarction caused by non-tumor origin coronary artery embolism.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Several studies have indicated that acute myocardial infarction (AMI) secondary to coronary artery embolism (CE) has a poor prognosis. However, in the latter studies, CE of tumor origin accounts for a considerable proportion of cases and the clinical features and contribution to overall prognosis of non-tumor CE are unknown and therefore the subject of this study.
METHODS: We retrospectively studied 2006 consecutive patients with AMI at our medical center from January 2014 to October 2018. Non-tumor CE was diagnosed based on angiographic, biochemical, and imaging criteria. Patients were divided into two groups: patients without CE (control) and patients with non-tumor CE.
RESULTS: Atrial fibrillation was the most frequent etiology (n = 32, 69.6%) in the non-tumor CE group (n = 46). Compared with the control group, the non-tumor CE group had (all p < 0.05): higher incidence of atrial fibrillation; larger left atrial diameter, left ventricular end-diastolic diameter and left ventricular end-systolic diameter; lower left ventricular ejection fraction, ST-segment-elevation myocardial infarction incidence and low density lipoprotein cholesterol level; lower incidence of multivessel coronary stenosis, level of culprit lesion stenosis and proportion of angioplasty; higher ratio of manual thrombectomy and antithrombotic drugs alone therapy; lower thrombolysis in myocardial infarction (TIMI) grade and higher corrected TIMI frame counts (CTFC) after reperfusion; and statistically similar overall survival at median 864 (interquartile range, 413-1272) days.
CONCLUSIONS: The overall incidence of non-tumor CE was 2.3%, with atrial fibrillation as its most common etiology. Midterm overall survival was similar between AMI patients secondary to non-tumor CE and those without CE.

Citation: Xiang G, et al. Clinical features and prognosis of acute myocardial infarction caused by non-tumor origin coronary artery embolism. Clinical features and prognosis of acute myocardial infarction caused by non-tumor origin coronary artery embolism. 2020; 38:1185-1191. doi: 10.1016/j.ajem.2020.03.043

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32229223/
