PMID: 32236415
Title: Long-term outcomes of trans-oral robotic surgery-assisted total laryngectomy for recurrent laryngeal cancers.

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: For recurrent laryngeal cancers, trans-oral robotic surgery has been used to perform total laryngectomy, but limited cases had been reported without long-term outcome follow-up. This study aims at presenting the largest longitudinal retrospective cohort in a single tertiary referral medical center.
METHODS: From November 2013 to August 2017, seven patients with recurrent laryngeal cancers without evidence of neck metastasis were selected to receive trans-oral robotic surgery-assisted TL without neck dissection. The para-operative details including the surgical success rates, surgical methods, resection extent, drainage tube placement, pharyngeal wound closure, console surgical time, pathologic findings and long-term complications were reviewed and described. The study end points include survival rates and preservation of swallowing function without tube feeding.
RESULTS: Trans-oral robotic surgery-assisted total laryngectomy was successfully performed on all seven patients with mean surgical console time of 111 ± 66 min. Strap muscles and hyoid bone were resected like open surgery in six and five patients, respectively. For all the seven patients, there was no severe pharyngo-cutaneous fistula formation requiring repair in a second surgery, but tracheostoma stenosis was not uncommon (57%). Three patients received adjuvant chemotherapy/radiotherapy. After follow-up of 36.1 ± 15.8 months, two patients had neck recurrence, and one patient died 19 months after surgery, but the other five patients were alive without disease recurrence. The overall survival rate was 85.7% (6/7), and all patients had good swallowing function without tube feeding.
CONCLUSIONS: Trans-oral robotic surgery-assisted total laryngectomy is a feasible approach for selected patients with recurrent laryngeal cancers. The oncologic and functional outcomes were satisfactory. Further larger cohort study is worthwhile to further elucidate the value of trans-oral robotic surgery-assisted total laryngectomy.

Citation: Wang CC, et al. Long-term outcomes of trans-oral robotic surgery-assisted total laryngectomy for recurrent laryngeal cancers. Long-term outcomes of trans-oral robotic surgery-assisted total laryngectomy for recurrent laryngeal cancers. 2020; 50:653-660. doi: 10.1093/jjco/hyaa034

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32236415/
