PMID: 32239996
Title: Diaphragm disease in emergency surgery.

Abstract: BACKGROUND/AIMS: Diaphragm disease of the small bowel has been described in the literature over the last three decades. The pathognomonic characteristic of multiple circumferential stenosis is noted on gross examination of the bowel. It is a severe form of non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug-induced enteropathy, often presenting as acute small bowel obstruction. A systematic review was performed to identify risk factors and patient outcomes in histologically-proven diaphragm disease of the small intestine in patients undergoing emergency operation for small bowel obstruction.
METHODS: A comprehensive search was performed between January 1975 and March 2019 using relevant MeSH terms. Studies were chosen based on predefined inclusion criteria. Diaphragm disease of the small intestine was defined as macroscopically detected thin diaphragm-like mucosal folding inside the lumen of the bowel. The parameters assessed included patient characteristics, duration of use of non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, type of emergency surgery performed, complications, recurrence, presentation and diagnosis of diaphragm disease.
RESULTS: A total of 21 studies were analysed which included 17 case reports, one case series, and three retrospective comparative studies. Overall 29 patients with diaphragm disease of the small bowel were reported following emergency laparotomy for small bowel obstruction. Use of non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs was noted in all cases with an average duration of 3-5 years. All patients presented acutely with features of small bowel obstruction and had emergency laparotomy, except one who underwent laparoscopic resection. In the comparative studies patients were more likely to be female and to have been taking non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs for more than 7 years.
CONCLUSIONS: This is a rare disease, difficult to diagnose and often confirmed by the intra-operative macroscopic appearance of circumferential stenosis of the bowel. Risk factors for developing small bowel diaphragm disease include long-term use of non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, and female gender. Patients with this disease are at increased risk of developing acute small bowel obstruction, so early identification is important.

Citation: Sarma DR and Bhattacharya P. Diaphragm disease in emergency surgery. Diaphragm disease in emergency surgery. 2020; 81:1-6. doi: 10.12968/hmed.2019.0409

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32239996/
