PMID: 32232592
Title: Congenital multiple colonic atresias with intestinal malrotation: a case report.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Congenital intestinal atresia develops in 1 in 1500 to 20,000 births. Colonic atresia, which accounts for 1.8-15% of intestinal atresia cases, is accompanied by other gastrointestinal atresias such as small intestinal atresia, gastroschisis, imperforate anus, and intestinal malformation in 47-80%. Although a report shows that patients with multiple colonic atresias are 8.9% of those with colonic atresia.
CASE PRESENTATION: A male infant did not have the first bowel movement within 36 h of birth and had abdominal distention/vomiting. Radiography showed significant dilation of the intestinal tract. A contrast enema examination at 3 days of age showed a microcolon and disruption in the descending colon. We performed an emergency decompressive loop enterostomy in the distended segment. At the age of 7 months, imaging from the stoma showed disruption of the contrast medium in the intestinal tract at the right lower abdomen, and the continuity of the intestinal tract was not clarified. Intestinal malrotation was found during the second surgery, and the enterostomy was located in the ileum proximal to Bauhin's valve. Continuity of the intestinal serosal surface was maintained. However, multiple membranous obstructions (three atresias and one stenosis) were observed in the distal segment of the bowel, which was penetrated by intraluminal advancement of a urethral catheter. Therefore, he was diagnosed with multiple colonic atresias. The intestinal tract was longitudinally incised, and membranectomy and mucosal/lateral suture were performed.
CONCLUSIONS: It is important for neonates with intestinal atresia to evaluate and prepare for distal patency of the colon before radical anastomosis. In addition, anomalies associated with colon atresia should also be assessed.

Citation: Ishii D, et al. Congenital multiple colonic atresias with intestinal malrotation: a case report. Congenital multiple colonic atresias with intestinal malrotation: a case report. 2020; 6:60. doi: 10.1186/s40792-020-00822-z

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32232592/
