PMID: 32249232
Title: Magnetic Resonance Imaging Evaluation of Left Common Iliac Vein Compression in Patients With and Without Symptoms of Venous Disease.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: The goal of this study was to assess the degree of the left common iliac vein (LCIV) compression by the right common iliac artery (RCIA) on magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), and verify differences in compression measurements in end-inspiration, end-expiration, supine, and prone decubitus between patients with and without symptoms in the lower limbs.
METHODS AND RESULTS: A total of 82 consecutive participants provided informed consent and underwent pelvic MRI for different clinical indications other than vascular-related disorders. The participants answered a questionnaire about venous disease in the lower limbs and history of previous deep vein thrombosis. This study measured the area and diameter of the LCIV at the site of the crossing with the RCIA and in the uncompressed caudal LCIV segment. Statistical analysis was performed to compare the degree of LCIV compression by the RCIA and verify differences in compression measurements. A total of 71 participants were included; 46.6% were in group A and did not experience signs and symptoms in lower limbs and 53.6% were in group B and answered at least one question with a positive answer. It was observed that there was a statistically significant difference between groups for end-expiration. No statistically significant differences were observed for all other measurements.
CONCLUSIONS: A substantial percentage of the asymptomatic and symptomatic population showed compression of the LCIV, suggesting there are no clear relationships between stenosis and non-specific symptomatology in the general population.

Citation: Costa LMG, et al. Magnetic Resonance Imaging Evaluation of Left Common Iliac Vein Compression in Patients With and Without Symptoms of Venous Disease. Magnetic Resonance Imaging Evaluation of Left Common Iliac Vein Compression in Patients With and Without Symptoms of Venous Disease. 2020; 84:763-768. doi: 10.1253/circj.CJ-19-0913

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32249232/
