PMID: 32241166
Title: Breast arterial calcification on mammography does not predict coronary artery disease by invasive coronary angiography.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: The relationship between breast arterial calcification (BAC) and angiographic coronary artery disease (CAD) is uncertain. Some studies have shown a positive association between BAC and angiographically proven CAD, while other studies have shown no association.
OBJECTIVE: Examine the association between visually detected BAC on mammography and CAD found on invasive coronary angiography (ICA) in women and compare the frequency of risk factors for CAD between women with normal and abnormal ICA.
DESIGN: Retrospective.
SETTING: Single tertiary care center.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: A review of the radiology databases was performed for female patients who underwent both ICA and mammography within six months of each other. Cases were excluded if there was a history of CAD, such as coronary artery bypass graft or prior percutaneous coronary intervention.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: BAC as a predictor of obstructive CAD on ICA.
SAMPLE SIZE: 203 Saudi women RESULTS: The association between age at catheterization and ICA was statistically significant ( P=.01). There was no association between BAC and abnormal ICA ( P=.108). Women with abnormal ICA were older than women with a normal ICA ( P=.01). There was a higher frequency of CAD risk factors among the patients with abnormal ICA, except for smoking. In the multiple logistic regression model, ICA was associated with age, a family history of CAD, diabetes mellitus, hypertension and hypercholesterolemia. BAC-positive women were older than BAC-negative women ( P=.0001). BAC was associated with age, diabetes, hypertension, and chronic kidney disease in the multiple logistic regression model.
CONCLUSIONS: BAC on mammography did not predict angiographically proven CAD. There was a strong association between BAC and age and many other conventional CAD risk factors.
LIMITATIONS: Relatively small sample, single-center retrospective study.
CONFLICT OF INTEREST: None.

Citation: Fathala AL, et al. Breast arterial calcification on mammography does not predict coronary artery disease by invasive coronary angiography. Breast arterial calcification on mammography does not predict coronary artery disease by invasive coronary angiography. 2020; 40:81-86. doi: 10.5144/0256-4947.2020.81

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32241166/
