PMID: 32245579
Title: The use of anterior segment optical coherence tomography in evaluation of punctal stenosis.

Abstract: PURPOSE: To evaluate the applicability of anterior segment optical coherence tomography (AS-OCT) for objective diagnosis of punctal stenosis.
METHODS: We report the use of AS-OCT in 3 cases of epiphora related to punctal stenosis. We followed the methodology described in previous studies. The examination was performed by a single technician using a single Spectralis OCT with the AS-OCT module. Three patients with complaints of epiphora (mean age=80 years) were examined. The external punctal diameter was measured on both infrared (IR) and OCT images. The internal diameter was measured on OCT images at a depth of 500μm. The diagnosis was confirmed by clinical examination.
RESULTS: The external punctal diameters were 159μm in the right eye (Cases 1 and 2) and 195μm in the left eye (case 2; mean: 171μm). All measurements were lower than cadaveric measurements (200-500μm), as well as previously described average diameters, thus confirming the diagnosis of punctal stenosis. The AS-OCT diameter correlated moderately with the punctal diameter estimate on the IR photos (mean: 183μm). In addition, the mean internal diameter of the punctum at 500μm (cases 1 and 2) was 58μm, which is consistent with the mean diameter at 500μm described in previous studies. Case 3 involved an 88-year-old man who complained of chronic epiphora. Slit lamp examination showed total punctal stenosis associated with cicatricial ectropion in the left eye due to a cutaneous tumor treated with radiotherapy. AS-OCT confirmed the presence of total punctual stenosis and the absence of associated canalicular stenosis.
LIMITATIONS: Our study is obviously limited by its small study population. The decision to resort to surgery was made by 2 different surgeons. There was thus no homogeneity in terms of stenosis. There is difficulty in everting the lid without applying pressure to the globe or changing the punctal or canalicular morphology. This maneuver was difficult in the postoperative setting after ectropion repair.
CONCLUSION: Our study shows that AS-OCT can be a rapid, non-invasive method in diagnosing punctal stenosis. Further studies are necessary to assess the use of AS-OCT in punctal stenosis.

Citation: Alturkistany W, et al. The use of anterior segment optical coherence tomography in evaluation of punctal stenosis. The use of anterior segment optical coherence tomography in evaluation of punctal stenosis. 2020; 43:494-499. doi: 10.1016/j.jfo.2019.09.015

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32245579/
