PMID: 32243906
Title: Carotid Endarterectomy Using a Flow-Reversal Technique in the Acute Period: A Novel Approach That May Reduce Intraoperative Cerebral Events.

Abstract: Lesion manipulation during internal carotid artery (ICA) surgical dissection is the most crucial stage of carotid endarterectomy (CEA); a friable part of the carotid plaque or a thrombus may detach from the arterial wall, leading to cerebral embolism. Proximal protection devices used in carotid artery stenting reverse the blood flow to the brain eliminating, at least after their deployment, the chance of cerebral embolism. Based on the working principle of these devices, we propose a new approach to CEA making use of a flow-reversal technique, and we report its successful application in 2 high-risk patients with a soft and friable type 4 ICA plaque: a 62-year-old male patient presenting with crescendo transient ischemic attacks and a 61-year-old male patient presenting with a major stroke. Both were operated in the acute period. Once the reverse flow has been established, the surgeon can freely manipulate the carotid and perform a fast blunt dissection without the risk that the disturbance of the arterial wall may lead to cerebral embolism. A video recording of the procedure has been made and presented with this article. Despite the various limitations, including increased clamping time, transient intolerance to reverse flow, and increased blood loss, this technique may improve clinical outcomes, especially in symptomatic patients with friable plaque. A clinical trial is warranted to further study the results of the flow-reversal CEA.

Citation: Alexiou VG, et al. Carotid Endarterectomy Using a Flow-Reversal Technique in the Acute Period: A Novel Approach That May Reduce Intraoperative Cerebral Events. Carotid Endarterectomy Using a Flow-Reversal Technique in the Acute Period: A Novel Approach That May Reduce Intraoperative Cerebral Events. 2020; 67:557-562. doi: 10.1016/j.avsg.2020.03.028

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32243906/
