PMID: 32257378
Title: Renal artery stenosis presenting as preeclampsia.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Renal artery stenosis is a notorious cause of secondary hypertension which classically presents as chronic refractory hypertension, recurrent flash pulmonary edema or renal insufficiency after initiation of an angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor. Rarely, there have been reported cases of pregnant patients presenting with new onset or superimposed preeclampsia secondary to renovascular hypertension. In this subset of patients, renovascular hypertension carries significantly higher risks including obstetric, fetal and medical emergencies and death. Prompt treatment is required. However, the teratogenic risks of radiological investigations and antihypertensive medications limit diagnostic and management options thus posing quite a dilemma.
CASE PRESENTATION: A 38-year-old female, at 33 weeks of gestation, was hospitalized for preeclampsia with severe features. A viable neonate had been expeditiously delivered yet the patient's post-partum blood pressures remained severely elevated despite multi-class anti-hypertensive therapy. Renal artery dopplers revealed greater than 60% stenosis of the proximal left renal artery and at least 60% stenosis of the right renal artery. Renal angiography showed 50% stenosis of the left proximal renal artery for which balloon angioplasty and stenting was performed. The right renal artery demonstrated less than 50% stenosis with an insignificant hemodynamic gradient, thus was not stented. Following revascularization, the patient's blood pressure improved within 48 h, on dual oral antihypertensive therapy.
CONCLUSIONS: Preeclampsia that is refractory to multi-drug antihypertensive therapy should raise suspicion for renal artery stenosis. Suspected patients can be screened safely with Doppler ultrasonography which can be then followed by angiography. Even if renal artery stenosis does not seem severe, early renal revascularization may be considered in patients with severe preeclampsia who do not respond to antihypertensive management.

Citation: Omar MB, et al. Renal artery stenosis presenting as preeclampsia. Renal artery stenosis presenting as preeclampsia. 2020; 26:6. doi: 10.1186/s40885-020-00140-4

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32257378/
