PMID: 32257559
Title: Diagnosis and Safe Excision of Lumbar Synovial Cysts and Accompanying Pathology: A Perspective.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Lumbar synovial cysts are often not sufficiently diagnosed prior to spine surgery. Utilizing both MR and CT studies is critical for recognizing the full extent/severity of these lesions.
METHODS: In patients with chronic, acute, or subacute lumbar disease, obtaining both MR and CT studies is critical to correctly diagnose; disc disease, hypertrophy/ossification of the yellow ligament (OYL), stenosis, with/without degenerative spondylolisthesis, and/or synovial cysts (SC).
RESULTS: MR T2 weighted images directly demonstrate hyperintensity within a SC. They initially cause lateral recess/caudad nerve root and/foraminal compromise, with larger extrusions causing significant lateral thecal sac, and far lateral/superior cephalad root compromise. CT 2 mm cuts often better demonstrate mid-vertebral level compression of cephalad nerve roots with/without SC calcification, along with the extent of mid-vertebral stenosis, hypertrophy/OYL, and DS. When CT studies directly document SC calcification, it alerts the surgeon to the increased potential risk of creating a cerebrospinal fluid fistula with full SC excision, and should prompt the adoption of alternative measures such as decompression/partial removal. Most critically, surgery for synovial cysts often warrants a 2-level laminectomy for fuller visualization of the cephalad and caudad nerve roots, and clearer differentiation of neural tissues from the large fibrotic SC capsule, to effect safer removal.
CONCLUSIONS: Preoperatively, establishing the full cephalad and cauda extent of lumbar synovial cysts with both MR and CT studies is critical. Anticipation and better visualization of the foraminal/far lateral and superior extent of these lesions often warrants more extensive multilevel laminectomies for thecal sac and both cephalad and caudad root decompression.

Citation: Epstein NE. Diagnosis and Safe Excision of Lumbar Synovial Cysts and Accompanying Pathology: A Perspective. Diagnosis and Safe Excision of Lumbar Synovial Cysts and Accompanying Pathology: A Perspective. 2020; 11:33. doi: 10.25259/SNI_54_2020

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32257559/
