PMID: 32253512
Title: Thoracoscopic plication of the membranous portion of crescent-type tracheobronchomalacia in an elderly patient: a case report.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: It is presumed that tracheobronchomalacia in adults is caused by airway pressure-induced injury due to chronic cough related to pulmonary emphysema or chronic bronchitis. Commonly, a posterolateral approach using stabilizing materials is the surgical technique of choice for treating tracheobronchomalacia. We report a case in which thoracoscopic plication of the membranous portion was performed instead of airway stent placement for tracheobronchomalacia in an elderly individual.
CASE PRESENTATION: An 87-year-old man who had been treated for bronchial asthma, pulmonary emphysema, and tracheobronchomalacia was admitted to our hospital with acute exacerbation of dyspnea. The patient underwent tracheal intubation, which was followed by tracheostomy 16 days later. Insertion of the tip of the adjustable-length tracheostomy tube to the end of the stenotic lesion enabled him to breathe spontaneously. However, conservative management failed due to recurrent pneumonia caused by the tracheobronchomalacia. Crescent-type tracheobronchomalacia (Johnson's classification grade III) was diagnosed, and the main narrowed area of the trachea was assumed to be approximately 3-10 cm from the tracheal bifurcation. A thoracoscopic approach was selected because a posterolateral approach was considered too invasive considering the patient's age and general condition. We placed eight stitches on the tracheal membranous portion and four stitches on the membranous portion of the right main bronchus, using the horizontal mattress suture technique. The use of foreign materials was avoided because meropenem-resistant Pseudomonas aeruginosa was cultured in a tracheal specimen. Immediately after the operation, the expiratory airway stenosis improved, and subsequently, spontaneous ventilation was possible using a normal type of tracheostomy tube instead of an adjustable-length tracheostomy tube.
CONCLUSIONS: Tracheobronchomalacia is not a rare condition in patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. The thoracoscopic approach is less invasive than the posterolateral approach and is suitable in cases that are otherwise refractory to medical treatment. We believe that thoracoscopy may be a useful treatment option in cases where conservative treatment is not appropriate.

Citation: Machino R and Tagawa T. Thoracoscopic plication of the membranous portion of crescent-type tracheobronchomalacia in an elderly patient: a case report. Thoracoscopic plication of the membranous portion of crescent-type tracheobronchomalacia in an elderly patient: a case report. 2020; 6:65. doi: 10.1186/s40792-020-00831-y

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32253512/
