PMID: 32250069
Title: Vesicoureteral reflux in patients diagnosed with pyeloureteral junction obstruction. Is screening justified?

Abstract: INTRODUCTION: The prevalence of vesicoureteral reflux (VUR) concomitant with pyeloureteral junction obstruction (PUJO) ranges from 5.2% to 18%. Today, there is no consensus on whether routine screening should be performed or not to rule out reflux, and it can be limited to selected patients.
OBJECTIVES: To study VUR prevalence in patients diagnosed with PUJO, estimate reflux levels in patients with positive study, and limit serial voiding cystourethrogram (SVCU) or ultrasound cystography to selected patients (dilated ureter at ultrasound imaging and previous UTI).
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Observational, retrospective study carried out in 74 patients undergoing surgery for PUJO. Information on sex, preoperative VUR screening, results (positive or negative for VUR), and reflux levels was collected.
RESULTS: 53 cases (71.6%) were male and 21 (28.4%) were female. Reflux screening was performed in 55 patients (74.3%), vs. 18 (24.3%) where no study was carried out. 16.2% of cases with VUR preoperative study were managed using ultrasound cystography. The preoperative study was positive in 6 out of the 73 patients (1 patient was excluded after being diagnosed with posterior urethral valves), which means VUR prevalence in patients already diagnosed with PUJO was 10.7%. Of the six cases, one case was grade I, two cases were grade II, one case was grade III, one case was grade IV, and one case was grade V.
CONCLUSIONS: VUR has a slightly higher incidence in patients diagnosed with pyeloureteral junction obstruction than in the general population. Routine screening of vesicoureteral reflux is unnecessary, unless in case of previous urinary infection, dilated ureter at ultrasound imaging, or suspected secondary cause.

Citation: Tejerina López R, et al. Vesicoureteral reflux in patients diagnosed with pyeloureteral junction obstruction. Is screening justified?. Vesicoureteral reflux in patients diagnosed with pyeloureteral junction obstruction. Is screening justified?. 2020; 33:71-74.

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32250069/
