PMID: 32265025
Title: [Giant left ventricular false aneurysme revealing a silent myocardial infarction].

Abstract: Left ventricular false aneurysms are rare. They are secondary to a myocardial rupture which is contained by adherent pericardium and scar tissue. LV pseudoaneurysm contains no endocardium or myocardium unlike left ventricular true aneurysm. Most cases of LV pseudoaneurysm are related to acute myocardial infarction in inferior or posterior wall. We report a case of a 56-year-old man with a medical history of chronic cigarette smoking, dyslipidemia, and obesity. The patient had no myocardial infarction before. He was admitted for evaluation of important shortness of breath at effort without chest pain for 5 months. Physical exam find an enlarged left ventricular. The electrocardiogram revealed Q waves and ST segment elevation in leads V1 to V6. Transthoracic echocardiogram showed a large thrombosed apical left ventricular false aneurysm, severe left ventricular dysfunction, which were confirmed by cardiac magnetic resonance imaging, this exam also showed no viability in the mid left anterior descending coronary artery territory. The coronary angiography showed an occlusion of the mid left anterior descending coronary artery and a stenosis of the first diagonal artery. The patient was offered a surgical aneurysectomy with coronary artery bypass. The surgery was successful with amelioration of symptoms. We present a rare case of a giant false left ventricular aneurysm complicating a silent myocardial infarction in the anterior wall. The diagnosis is made by cardiac echocardiogram and cardiac magnetic resonance imaging. Because of the important risk of rupture, the surgical treatment is required.

Citation: Kadiri R, et al. [Giant left ventricular false aneurysme revealing a silent myocardial infarction]. [Giant left ventricular false aneurysme revealing a silent myocardial infarction]. 2020; 69:144-147. doi: 10.1016/j.ancard.2019.08.014

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32265025/
