PMID: 32267099
Title: Management of radiation therapy-induced vaginal adhesions and stenosis: A New Zealand survey of current practice.

Abstract: INTRODUCTION: Vaginal dilation is often indicated as an intervention for the management of radiation therapy-induced vaginal adhesions and stenosis (RTVAS). However, limited research exists underpinning this intervention and diversity in patient recommendations internationally are reported. In the absence of New Zealand (NZ) national guidelines regarding the management of RTVAS, a survey of NZ radiation therapy departments was conducted to gain an overview of current practice.
METHODS: A two-section online survey was developed to capture RTVAS education and management overview across NZ. Section one focused on departmental resourcing and section two on local standard practice regarding vaginal dilator usage. One RTVAS education representative from each department was invited to complete the survey.
RESULTS: Eight of nine NZ departments completed the survey. Consistent treatment indications were identified for RTVAS patient education with the involvement of diverse staffing groups at various time-points throughout the treatment process. Protocols for RTVAS management existed in each RT department with staff commonly trained by informal peer observation. Dilator usage was recommended regardless of patient sexual activity. Agreement was shown regarding the recommended start time of dilator usage and frequency. The recommended duration of dilator use post-treatment varied from 6 months to greater than 36 months.
CONCLUSIONS: This work illustrates both concordance and diversity in practice and contributes to the limited body of literature available. Further research is warranted to explore patterns of practice between departmental protocols and individual practitioners in further detail.

Citation: Summerfield J and Leong A. Management of radiation therapy-induced vaginal adhesions and stenosis: A New Zealand survey of current practice. Management of radiation therapy-induced vaginal adhesions and stenosis: A New Zealand survey of current practice. 2020; 67:128-133. doi: 10.1002/jmrs.386

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32267099/
