PMID: 32274769
Title: Delayed quadriparesis after posterior spinal fusion for scoliosis: a case series.

Abstract: STUDY DESIGN: A multicenter retrospective IRB exempt case series analyzing clinical and radiographical data of patients treated by three surgeons over the past two decades was conducted.
OBJECTIVE: To examine the factors involved in the development of quadriparesis in patients who underwent posterior spinal fusion for scoliosis. Delayed spinal cord infarcts usually present at the region of instrumentation according to reports from the Scoliosis Research Society. Nonetheless, there is a lack of data regarding factors associated with delayed quadriparesis following posterior spinal fusion METHODS: Evaluated variables were age, Cobb angle, blood loss, and curve correction percentage. Postoperative imaging was also evaluated to determine factors indicative of the etiology of the quadriparesis.
RESULTS: Eight patients presented delayed postoperative quadriparesis. All patients had a postoperative examination equal to that of baseline. The first patient deteriorated at 6 h postoperatively and the most delayed patient presented 4 days postoperatively. Six patients had neuromuscular disorders and 2 had adolescent idiopathic scoliosis. Mean age was 13.7, mean curve magnitude was 78.7°, mean percent curve correction was 71% and the mean estimated blood loss was 1185 cc. Seven of eight patients had documented peri- or postoperative hypotension.
CONCLUSIONS: Cervical infarction is the likely cause of delayed quadriparesis after posterior spinal fusion. Even though the underlying etiology continues to be unclear, postoperative hypotension, curve magnitude, percent curve correction, and the presence of cervical kyphosis/stenosis may be contributory and need to be closely evaluated.
LEVEL OF EVIDENCE: IV, Case Series.

Citation: Alam M, et al. Delayed quadriparesis after posterior spinal fusion for scoliosis: a case series. Delayed quadriparesis after posterior spinal fusion for scoliosis: a case series. 2020; 8:1075-1080. doi: 10.1007/s43390-020-00113-5

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32274769/
