PMID: 32277146
Title: Gene-expression profiles of abdominal perivascular adipose tissue distinguish aortic occlusive from stenotic atherosclerotic lesions and denote different pathogenetic pathways.

Abstract: Perivascular adipose tissue (PVAT) helps regulate arterial homeostasis and plays a role in the pathogenesis of large vessel diseases. In this study, we investigated whether the PVAT of aortic occlusive lesions shows specific gene-expression patterns related to pathophysiology. By a genome-wide approach, we investigated the PVAT transcriptome in patients with aortoiliac occlusive disease. We compared the adipose layer surrounding the distal aorta (atherosclerotic lesion) with the proximal aorta (plaque-free segment), both within and between patients with complete aortoiliac occlusion (Oc) and low-grade aortic stenosis (St). We found that PVAT of the distal versus proximal aorta within both Oc- and St-patients lacks specific, locally restricted gene-expression patterns. Conversely, singular gene-expression profiles distinguished the PVAT between Oc- and St-patients. Functional enrichment analysis revealed that these signatures were associated with pathways related to metabolism of cholesterol, vessel tone regulation, and remodeling, including TGF-β and SMAD signaling. We finally observed that gene-expression profiles in omental-visceral or subcutaneous fat differentiated between Oc- and St-patients, suggesting that the overall adipose component associates with a different atherosclerosis burden. Our work points out the role of PVAT and, likely, other adipose tissues play in the pathophysiological mechanisms underlying atherosclerotic disease, including the abdominal aortic occlusive forms.

Citation: Piacentini L, et al. Gene-expression profiles of abdominal perivascular adipose tissue distinguish aortic occlusive from stenotic atherosclerotic lesions and denote different pathogenetic pathways. Gene-expression profiles of abdominal perivascular adipose tissue distinguish aortic occlusive from stenotic atherosclerotic lesions and denote different pathogenetic pathways. 2020; 10:6245. doi: 10.1038/s41598-020-63361-5

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32277146/
