PMID: 32278349
Title: A new ureteroileal anastomosis technique in modified ileal orthotopic bladder substitution after radical cystectomy.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: The aim of this study is to describe a modified technique in ileal orthotopic bladder substitution with a new ureteroileal anastomosis.
CASE PRESENTATION: After a classic open radical cystectomy with bilateral pelvic lymphadenectomy was performed extraperitoneally, a 56-cm ileal segment was used to construct the spheroidal shape bladder substitution. The 8-cm long proximal and distal ends of the ileal segment were used as afferent limbs. Two-centimeter ileal segments of afferent limbs were detubularized and transversally tubularized. The elongated ileal tube was anastomosed with the ureter in an end-to-end fashion. The pathway of the ureteroileal anastomosis was placed between the abdominal cutaneous fat and the anterior rectus muscular sheath. Perioperative data and long-term functional outcomes were assessed. Between December 2011 and December 2015, seven male patients underwent this procedure with a median 46 (30-77) months follow-up in our hospital. There was no difference between preoperative and postoperative estimated glomerular filtration rates (Z = - 1.693, P = 0.09). One of 14 sides had ureteroileal anastomotic stenosis; two of 14 sides in one patient had ureteroileal anastomotic stenosis caused by invasion of pelvic recurrence 15 months postoperatively. Reflux was completely prevented by placing pressure on the corresponding point on the abdominal surface when voiding urine in all patients.
CONCLUSIONS: We describe a feasible technique modification in detail, which provides some advantages for effective anti-reflux by mechanical finger pressing and abdominal contraction, a low incidence of stricture, and ease for a secondary operation in the long-term follow-up period.

Citation: Wu B, et al. A new ureteroileal anastomosis technique in modified ileal orthotopic bladder substitution after radical cystectomy. A new ureteroileal anastomosis technique in modified ileal orthotopic bladder substitution after radical cystectomy. 2020; 18:72. doi: 10.1186/s12957-020-01831-w

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32278349/
