PMID: 32280573
Title: Zoster Sine Herpete Masquerading as Central Nervous System Vasculitis.

Abstract: Central nervous system (CNS) vasculopathy caused by varicella zoster virus (VZV) is a rare condition. Rarer still is the development of CNS vasculopathy in the absence of a typical zoster rash, a phenomenon known as zoster sine herpete. We report a case of a 34-year-old male with HIV, non-compliant with highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART), who presented with left-sided temporal headaches and numbness without rash. The patient had a complicated one-month hospital stay when he was initially diagnosed with mycobacterium avium complex (MAC) tuberculosis infection and treated with isoniazid, rifabutin, ethambutol, and azithromycin. Additionally, he was thought to have immune reconstitution inflammatory syndrome (IRIS) and was given steroids. Unfortunately, he presented one day post-discharge with lethargy, aphasia, and dysphagia and was found to have acute/subacute infarcts affecting multiple areas of the brain. CT angiogram (CTA) of the brain showed evidence of multifocal areas of mild to moderate stenosis throughout the intracranial arterial circulation. The patient underwent conventional angiography, which showed segmental arterial constrictions with post-stenotic dilatation consistent with vasculitis. Cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) studies eventually returned positive for VZV by polymerase chain reaction (PCR), confirming a diagnosis of VZV-induced CNS vasculopathy, or more specifically, CNS vasculopathy due to zoster sine herpete. The patient was treated with high-dose steroids as well as IV acyclovir with improvement in his symptoms. He was discharged with advice for a close follow-up with the infectious disease (ID) department. Our case highlights the importance of maintaining a high index of suspicion for varicella infection masquerading as CNS vasculitis, particularly in the absence of classic blistering shingles rash. Early detection may prevent neurological sequelae of the infection, including stroke, dissection, or neuropathy.

Citation: Lau A, et al. Zoster Sine Herpete Masquerading as Central Nervous System Vasculitis. Zoster Sine Herpete Masquerading as Central Nervous System Vasculitis. 2020; 12:e7231. doi: 10.7759/cureus.7231

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32280573/
