PMID: 32284290
Title: Angio-architecture of complex cranial dural arteriovenous fistulas: A single centre retrospective review of treatment modalities and outcomes.

Abstract: INTRODUCTION: Cranial dural arteriovenous fistulas (DAVFs) are rare vascular lesions that often harbour complex angio-architectural features. This subtype of DAVF may require multiple, multimodality, or hybrid treatments. In this paper we aim to identify specific angio-architectural features that are present in complex cranial DAVFs and we report our series with respect to treatment modalities and outcomes.
METHODS: Twenty-five cranial Borden type II and III cranial DAVFs were treated at our Institution from 2013 to 2017. We classified nine (36%) as complex based on specific angio-architectural features. Treatment strategies were based on fistula location, angiographic features and patient's presenting condition. Phone interviews were used to confirm outcome at 6 and 12 months.
RESULTS: Four patients (45%) presented with acute hydrocephalus, and 3 (33%) with intracranial hemorrhage. Multiple and combined treatment sessions were needed for all complex DAVFs. Five patients required 2 endovascular procedures each. One patient had 2 surgeries. The first line of treatment was endovascular in 6 cases (67%) and surgery in 3 (33%). Two treatment-related (22%) complications occurred. Complete disconnection was achieved in 5 out of 9 patients (55%). Two patients with an incomplete disconnection refused further treatment and were well at last follow up, with a partially treated fistula and persistent CVR. The other 3 patients concluded treatment after the end of our data collection period. At 1 year, 7/9 patients had stable or improved clinical symptoms, and 8/9 patients had GOS of 4 or 5.
CONCLUSIONS: Complex cranial DAVF often require a multidisciplinary approach and multiple treatment sessions should be expected. Specific angio-architectural features that increase DAVF complexity include multiple arterial feeders, especially transosseous or pial, reflux into multiple cortical veins, sinus occlusion/entrapment, venous aneurysms, segmental stenosis, medial or deep location, and association with the deep venous system.

Citation: Priola SM, et al. Angio-architecture of complex cranial dural arteriovenous fistulas: A single centre retrospective review of treatment modalities and outcomes. Angio-architecture of complex cranial dural arteriovenous fistulas: A single centre retrospective review of treatment modalities and outcomes. 2020; 76:87-99. doi: 10.1016/j.jocn.2020.04.037

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32284290/
