PMID: 32283334
Title: Experimental Models of Partial Intestinal Obstruction in Young Mice: Establishment, and Evaluation.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Partial small bowel obstruction (SBO) is a common, potentially hazardous, surgical entity caused by numerous factors in humans. A number of techniques have been reported as efficient to simulate partial SBO in murine models. However, there is little data concerning their long-term survival. Our study presents a novel technique and evaluates its long-term efficiency compared with other commonly used techniques.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Sixty C57BL/6 mice aged 6 to 8 wk were randomly divided into five intervention groups: ligation, intestinal ring, partial ligation, microclips, and the novel triple suture technique. The ring groups were subdivided into narrow, medium, and wide ring and partial ligation groups were subdivided at 1/3, 1/2, and 2/3 of the lumen. Survival cutoff time was set at 4 wk. Animals were then euthanized and small bowel muscle layer thickness was histopathologically evaluated.
RESULTS: None of the animals of the ligation and the ring groups reached the cutoff survival time. The mortality rate of the partial ligation and the microclips groups at the 4-week period were 33.3% and 0%, respectively. However, elimination of the performed intervention was revealed at the time of euthanasia and no alterations of the muscle layer were revealed at histopathology. The "triple suture" group had a survival rate of 90% until euthanasia and the sutures were apparent in all cases. Macroscopic evaluation showed small to mild proximal lumen dilatation in 6 of 10 animals. Histopathological evaluation of the specimens confirmed the partial obstruction.
CONCLUSIONS: The "triple suture" technique is a new, robust, reliable, and inexpensive technique for experimental long-standing partial SBO, with very low mortality.

Citation: Georgopoulos I, et al. Experimental Models of Partial Intestinal Obstruction in Young Mice: Establishment, and Evaluation. Experimental Models of Partial Intestinal Obstruction in Young Mice: Establishment, and Evaluation. 2020; 252:206-215. doi: 10.1016/j.jss.2020.03.007

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32283334/
