PMID: 32297513
Title: Metabolomics and Lipidomics Profiling in Asymptomatic Severe Intracranial Arterial Stenosis: Results from a Population-Based Study.

Abstract: No data are available on the serum metabolomics and lipidomics profiles of people with asymptomatic intracranial arterial stenosis. We explored the characteristic metabolites of individuals with asymptomatic severe intracranial arterial stenosis (asICAS) using untargeted serum metabolomics and lipidomics analyses based on ultra-high-performance liquid chromatography high-resolution mass spectrometry (UPLC-HRMS). This case-control study included 25 participants with asICAS and 25 age- and sex-matched controls free of asICAS, who were all diagnosed by using magnetic resonance angiography and derived from the same population-based study. Serum metabolomics and lipidomics profiles were determined using UPLC-HRMS, and possible biomarker metabolites were identified. Compared with the control group, the asICAS group showed higher levels of free choline, glycerophosphocholine, uracil, taurine, and four peptide molecules and lower levels of free fatty acids, hydroxydodecanedioic acid, hydroxy valeryl carnitine, hydroxytetradecanedioic acid, and two sphingomyelin molecules. The serum metabolomics and lipidomics profiles for people with asICAS are characterized by abnormal metabolism of sphingomyelin, taurine/hypotaurine, pyrimidine, and protein (peptide). The biological changes in asICAS may mainly involve taurine/hypotaurine, glycerophospholipid, and sphingolipid metabolism pathways. Biofunctional analysis indicated that these differential metabolites were correlated with metabolic diseases such as early myocardial injury, heart failure, and diabetes.

Citation: Xue Y, et al. Metabolomics and Lipidomics Profiling in Asymptomatic Severe Intracranial Arterial Stenosis: Results from a Population-Based Study. Metabolomics and Lipidomics Profiling in Asymptomatic Severe Intracranial Arterial Stenosis: Results from a Population-Based Study. 2020; 19:2206-2216. doi: 10.1021/acs.jproteome.9b00644

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32297513/
