PMID: 32303329
Title: Gross Anatomical, Radiographic and Doppler Sonographic Approach to the Infra-auricular Parotid Region in Donkey (Equus asinus).

Abstract: The present study was performed on 12 heads of donkey's cadavers of both sexes for different anatomic techniques and on 20 live adult donkeys for ultrasonographic approaches of local anesthetic techniques. The aim was to achieve safe desensitization of the ear canal and tympanic membrane in addition to measuring different parameters of the structures occupying the infra-auricular parotid region. The internal auricular nerve was divided into two fine branches and constituting, at its origin, a characteristic V-shape with the caudal auricular nerve. The styloid process of auricular cartilage was an adequate landmark for ultrasonographic needle-guided anesthesia for internal auricular and auriculopalpebral nerves, whereas the great auricular nerve was easily palpated subcutaneously that showed safety and success in all cases. The auricular branch of mandibular nerve joined the auriculopalpebral branch of facial nerve. The maxillary vein was descending, partially embedded within the texture of the parotid glandular tissue. The parotid gland divided into five segments was clearly demarcated by maxillary vein tributaries with three main collecting radicles pouring into the parotid duct. The mandibular duct received about 12-15 fine radicles and supplied with a separate branch from the external carotid artery. Using the Doppler sonographic technique in donkeys for diagnosis of ear affections, evaluation of retrograde sialography to salivary glands with their blood vasculature and their indices might be helpful for the detection of different critical abnormalities, such as stenosis, thrombosis, and other vasopathological affections through measuring their resistivity and pulsatility indices.

Citation: Maher MA, et al. Gross Anatomical, Radiographic and Doppler Sonographic Approach to the Infra-auricular Parotid Region in Donkey (Equus asinus). Gross Anatomical, Radiographic and Doppler Sonographic Approach to the Infra-auricular Parotid Region in Donkey (Equus asinus). 2020; 88:102968. doi: 10.1016/j.jevs.2020.102968

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32303329/
