PMID: 32309656
Title: Hybrid decompression and reconstruction technique for cervical spondylotic myelopathy: case series and review of the literature.

Abstract: The primary treatment of choice for patients with cervical spondylotic myelopathy (CSM) is surgical decompression. The benefit of operative intervention has been well established but, the surgeons' decision of operative approach remains nuanced based on patient-specific variables and surgeon preference. Decompression can involve a cervical corpectomy or a discectomy. A hybrid construct is when both a cervical corpectomy and a discectomy are done in the same patient. The purpose of this study was to review the evidence on the clinical and biomechanical outcomes of hybrid decompression and reconstruction techniques in patients with multilevel CSM. A retrospective study was performed on consecutive patients who received hybrid anterior decompression and reconstruction at Rush University between 2013-2018. Preoperative clinical and radiographic variables were analyzed to characterize specific factors leading to the decision of the surgical approach. In addition, we performed a systematic review and meta-analysis to assess superiority in terms of operative time, blood loss, cervical lordosis, patient-reported outcomes (PRO), fusion rates, and complications. Hybrid surgery (HS) was utilized in cases where multilevel CSM was present in conjunction with stenosis posterior to the vertebral body or acute kyphotic deformity. Our meta-analysis highlighted comparable PRO, complications, and rate of success fusion between 3-level anterior cervical discectomy and fusion (ACDF) and hybrid technique. Furthermore, hybrid fusion led to increased postoperative cervical lordosis, higher fusion rate, lower total complication rate, lower implant failure/mesh subsidence rate, and lower blood loss than 2-level corpectomy. The cervical hybrid technique that combines cervical corpectomy and discectomy represents a balanced option with the benefits of two commonly utilized cervical spine procedures in patients with multilevel CSM. The literature on hybrid technique suggests in cases where multilevel ACDF is not feasible, combining discectomy and corpectomy is superior to two-level corpectomy with lower complication rates, improved clinical outcome, spinal alignment correction, and stronger biomechanical properties.

Citation: Ryu WHA, et al. Hybrid decompression and reconstruction technique for cervical spondylotic myelopathy: case series and review of the literature. Hybrid decompression and reconstruction technique for cervical spondylotic myelopathy: case series and review of the literature. 2020; 6:181-195. doi: 10.21037/jss.2019.12.08

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32309656/
