PMID: 32326672
Title: A Review on the Use of Artificial Intelligence in Spinal Diseases.

Abstract: Artificial neural networks (ANNs) have been used in a wide variety of real-world applications and it emerges as a promising field across various branches of medicine. This review aims to identify the role of ANNs in spinal diseases. Literature were searched from electronic databases of Scopus and Medline from 1993 to 2020 with English publications reported on the application of ANNs in spinal diseases. The search strategy was set as the combinations of the following keywords: "artificial neural networks," "spine," "back pain," "prognosis," "grading," "classification," "prediction," "segmentation," "biomechanics," "deep learning," and "imaging." The main findings of the included studies were summarized, with an emphasis on the recent advances in spinal diseases and its application in the diagnostic and prognostic procedures. According to the search strategy, a set of 3,653 articles were retrieved from Medline and Scopus databases. After careful evaluation of the abstracts, the full texts of 89 eligible papers were further examined, of which 79 articles satisfied the inclusion criteria of this review. Our review indicates several applications of ANNs in the management of spinal diseases including (1) diagnosis and assessment of spinal disease progression in the patients with low back pain, perioperative complications, and readmission rate following spine surgery; (2) enhancement of the clinically relevant information extracted from radiographic images to predict Pfirrmann grades, Modic changes, and spinal stenosis grades on magnetic resonance images automatically; (3) prediction of outcomes in lumbar spinal stenosis, lumbar disc herniation and patient-reported outcomes in lumbar fusion surgery, and preoperative planning and intraoperative assistance; and (4) its application in the biomechanical assessment of spinal diseases. The evidence suggests that ANNs can be successfully used for optimizing the diagnosis, prognosis and outcome prediction in spinal diseases. Therefore, incorporation of ANNs into spine clinical practice may improve clinical decision making.

Citation: Azimi P, et al. A Review on the Use of Artificial Intelligence in Spinal Diseases. A Review on the Use of Artificial Intelligence in Spinal Diseases. 2020; 14:543-571. doi: 10.31616/asj.2020.0147

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32326672/
