PMID: 32326796
Title: Ticagrelor versus clopidogrel for prevention of subclinical stent thrombosis detected by optical coherence tomography in patients with drug-eluting stent implantation-a multicenter and randomized study.

Abstract: Introduction: This prospective, multicenter, randomized study was designed to analyze the benefits of ticagrelor over clopidogrel in reducing subclinical stent thrombosis (ST) in patients with coronary artery disease who underwent implantation of a second-generation drug-eluting stent (DES).Methods: About 352 patients with single de novo coronary stenosis were randomly assigne`d to either clopidogrel group (aspirin plus clopidogrel) or ticagrelor group (aspirin plus ticagrelor) after DES implantation for 1 year. Baseline clinical characteristics, blood chemistry markers, coronary artery angiography (CAG), and optical coherence tomography (OCT) were obtained during the index procedure. Data about clinic, CAG and OCT were also collected after 1 year follow-up. Intention-to-treat (ITT), per protocol set (PPS), and sensitivity analysis of subclinical ST were performed. Major factors associated with subclinical ST were analyzed by multivariable and univariable logistic regression models.Results: The incidence of subclinical ST in ticagrelor group was significantly low as compared to clopidogrel group (P &lt; .05) at 1-year follow-up. Ticagrelor use was an independent factor in reducing subclinical ST (P &lt; .05). The percentage of endothelial coverage, neointimal hyperplasia, malapposition, and edge dissection about stents were not different between the two groups (P &gt; .05). Bleeding ratio was not markedly altered after ticagrelor treatment (P &gt; .05). Not any significant differences were detected with regard to baseline clinical characteristics, CAG results, and DES between ticagrelor and clopidogrel groups (P &gt; .05).Conclusion: In patients who underwent a second-generation DES implantation, using aspirin plus ticagrelor was associated with a significant reduction in subclinical ST. (ClinicalTrials.gov. Number: NCT02140801).

Citation: Wu X, et al. Ticagrelor versus clopidogrel for prevention of subclinical stent thrombosis detected by optical coherence tomography in patients with drug-eluting stent implantation-a multicenter and randomized study. Ticagrelor versus clopidogrel for prevention of subclinical stent thrombosis detected by optical coherence tomography in patients with drug-eluting stent implantation-a multicenter and randomized study. 2021; 32:404-412. doi: 10.1080/09537104.2020.1754381

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32326796/
