PMID: 32326264
Title: Analysis of Sexual Disorders in Men with Infrarenal Abdominal Aortic Aneurysm Treated by Stent-Graft or Prosthesis Implantation-A Pilot Study.

Abstract: Background and objectives: Patients with obstruction or stenosis of the aorta and iliac arteries or with aortic aneurysm, often co-existing with iliac artery aneurysms, suffer from sexual disorders because of insufficient perfusion to the pelvic organs and penis. This is often the cause of visits to a medical doctor's office with reports of a difficult life situation and a problem with the satisfactory completion of sexual intercourse. A low percentage of vascular surgeons or angiologists are prepared to talk about issues related to the hereditary sphere with a patient who qualifies for the treatment of Leriche syndrome or abdominal aortic aneurysm. The aim of this study was to analyze sexual disorders in men with infrarenal abdominal aortic aneurysm treated by stent-graft or prosthesis implantation. Material and methods, Outcomes: 38 patients who completed the IIEF-5 (International Index of Erectile for Men) questionnaire are presented. Initially, 146 qualified for the study after meeting the study inclusion criteria for surgery (Group 1) or for endovascular treatment of abdominal aortic aneurysm (Group 2). Results: In the study, no negative impact of smoking was found; however, over 95% of respondents had been smoking for many years in both groups. Patients who qualified for vascular prosthesis implantation were subject to a more advanced atherosclerotic process involving the aorta and iliac arteries. Patients who qualified for stent-graft implantation were twice as often treated for coronary vessel stenosis. In Group 1, the percentage differences, as shown by questions 1 and 5, were statistically significant (58, i.e., 25%, and 40, i.e., 29%). Conclusions: Education should target medical personnel in terms of conversations with patients, as well as men who are directly affected by this problem, although their partners and families should not be neglected in these activities. The ability to communicate properly allows for an open dialogue on issues that the patient finds difficult, particularly in the field of sexology.

Citation: Sznapka M, et al. Analysis of Sexual Disorders in Men with Infrarenal Abdominal Aortic Aneurysm Treated by Stent-Graft or Prosthesis Implantation-A Pilot Study. Analysis of Sexual Disorders in Men with Infrarenal Abdominal Aortic Aneurysm Treated by Stent-Graft or Prosthesis Implantation-A Pilot Study. 2020; 56:(unknown pages). doi: 10.3390/medicina56040191

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32326264/
