PMID: 32339677
Title: Combined Angioplasty Technique of the Carotid Territory and Supra-Aortic Trunk by Double Access (Cervical and Limbs) for Tandem Lesions.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: The carotid stent angioplasty (CAS) has been the main option for patients with high cardiovascular risk and carotid stenosis. The common femoral artery is still the most used access site; however, the aortic arch manipulation is a critical moment for cerebral embolization. Carotid transcervical access should be considered as a good alternative access route for CAS. Tandem lesions combining supra-aortic trunks and ipsilateral carotid bulb critical stenosis pose a great challenge for the vascular surgeon.
METHODS: This is a retrospective descriptive study based on medical records of our institution. We report 2 cases of complex cerebral vascular insufficiency and discuss therapeutic options and strategies to protect the cerebrovascular territory avoiding microembolization, as well as demonstrate an alternative and safe total endovascular approach for those cases.
RESULTS: We describe the approach of 2 complex cerebral vascular insufficiency cases: case 1, a 63-year-old male with previous ischemic stroke, right internal carotid artery (ICA) occlusion, left ICA stenosis >70%, and critical stenosis of the origin of common carotid artery (CCA); case 2, a 68-year-old female with previous ischemic stroke, left ICA occlusion, brachiocephalic trunk critical stenosis, hypoplastic right vertebral artery, and aortobi-iliac chronic occlusion. In both cases reported here a challenging solution was chosen, little described in the literature, with cerebral filter protection as the first step. In addition, a literature review was performed to discuss the different approach options for tandem injuries of the supra-aortic trunk and carotid bulb.
CONCLUSIONS: Our initial experience with total endovascular treatment of complex tandem lesions of the carotid territory and supra-aortic trunks show that transcervical access, coupled with distal protection filter device on the first step, is a safe and effective technique for preventing neurological events.

Citation: Ribeiro FS, et al. Combined Angioplasty Technique of the Carotid Territory and Supra-Aortic Trunk by Double Access (Cervical and Limbs) for Tandem Lesions. Combined Angioplasty Technique of the Carotid Territory and Supra-Aortic Trunk by Double Access (Cervical and Limbs) for Tandem Lesions. 2020; 68:570.e9-570.e15. doi: 10.1016/j.avsg.2020.04.029

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32339677/
