PMID: 32337692
Title: Involvement of Angiotensin II Type 1 Receptor and Calcium Channel in Vascular Remodeling and Endothelial Dysfunction in Rats with Pressure Overload.

Abstract: Vascular remodeling is an adaptive response to various stimuli, including mechanical forces, inflammatory cytokines and hormones. In the present study, we investigated the role of angiotensin II type 1 receptor (AT1R) and calcium channel in carotid artery remodeling in response to increased biomechanical forces by using the transverse aortic constriction (TAC) rat model. TAC was induced on ten-week-old male Sprague-Dawley rats and these models were treated with AT1R blocker olmesartan (1 mg/kg/day) or/and calcium channel blocker (CCB) amlodipine (0.5 mg/kg/day) for 14 days. After the treatment, the right common carotid artery proximal to the band (RCCA-B) was collected for further assay. Results showed that olmesartan, but not amlodipine, significantly prevented TAC-induced adventitial hyperplasia. Similarly, olmesartan, but not amlodipine, signifcantly prevented vascular infammation, as indicated by increased tumor necrosis factor α (TNF-α) and increased p65 phosphorylation, an indicator of nuclear factor κ-light-chain-enhancer of activated B cells (NFκB) activation in RCCA-B. In contrast, both olmesartan and amlodipine reversed the decreased expression of endothelial nitric oxidase synthase (eNOS) and improved endothelium-dependent vasodilation, whereas combination of olmesartan and amlodipine showed no further synergistic protective effects. These results suggest that AT1R was involved in vascular remodeling and inflammation in response to pressure overload, whereas AT1R and subsequent calcium channel were involved in endothelial dysfunction.

Citation: Chen DR, et al. Involvement of Angiotensin II Type 1 Receptor and Calcium Channel in Vascular Remodeling and Endothelial Dysfunction in Rats with Pressure Overload. Involvement of Angiotensin II Type 1 Receptor and Calcium Channel in Vascular Remodeling and Endothelial Dysfunction in Rats with Pressure Overload. 2020; 40:320-326. doi: 10.1007/s11596-020-2171-7

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32337692/
