PMID: 32339400
Title: Incidence and fate of device-related left pulmonary artery stenosis and aortic coarctation in small infants undergoing transcatheter patent ductus arteriosus closure.

Abstract: OBJECTIVES: To evaluate short- and middle-term outcomes after transcatheter patent ductus arteriosus (TC-PDA) closure in small infants, specifically device-related left pulmonary artery (LPA) stenosis and aortic coarctation, risk factors, and changes over time.
BACKGROUND: Recent studies have demonstrated successful transcatheter PDA (TC-PDA) closure in small infants. LPA stenosis and aortic coarctation have been seen after TC-PDA, but it is not clear whether device-related LPA/aortic obstruction persists.
METHODS: A single-center retrospective study of infants ≤4 kg who underwent TC-PDA closure from February 1, 2007 to September 1, 2018 was performed, evaluating the incidence and risk factors for LPA stenosis and coarctation.
RESULTS: Forty-four patients underwent successful TC-PDA with Amplatzer Vascular Plug II (AVPII; n = 30), Amplatzer Duct Occluder II-Additional Sizes (n = 10), Amplatzer Duct Occluder I (n = 3), and coil-filled AVPI (n = 1) devices, all via an antegrade approach. Median birthweight and procedural weight were 890 g (range: 490-3,250) and 2.8 kg (range: 1.2-4.0), respectively. Median follow-up was 0.7 years (range: 2 days-7 years). Thirty-eight patients had post-procedure echocardiograms assessing LPA/aortic obstruction. Of those, 17 had LPA flow acceleration/stenosis (≥1.5 m/s), which improved or resolved in all patients with available follow-up; 3 developed mild coarctation (>2 m/s), which improved in the two with more than short-term follow-up; 4 developed mild flow acceleration (1.5-2 m/s) in the descending aorta, which resolved in three and increased in one (2.4 m/s). Flow acceleration in the LPA was associated with younger procedural age, larger PDA minimal diameter, and placement of a device other than the AVPII. There was no device-related mortality or need for reintervention.
CONCLUSION: TC-PDA in small infants is effective, without significant complications. Device-related LPA/aortic obstruction can improve with time/growth.

Citation: Tomasulo CE, et al. Incidence and fate of device-related left pulmonary artery stenosis and aortic coarctation in small infants undergoing transcatheter patent ductus arteriosus closure. Incidence and fate of device-related left pulmonary artery stenosis and aortic coarctation in small infants undergoing transcatheter patent ductus arteriosus closure. 2020; 96:889-897. doi: 10.1002/ccd.28942

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32339400/
