PMID: 32345196
Title: [The Role of Residual Stenosis of the Coronary Arteries in the Dynamics Systolicdiastolic Left Ventricular Function after Acute Coronary Syndrome].

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: The aim of the research under consideration was to study the dynamics of a local systolic-diastolic function of patients with various ischemic heart disease (IHD) progressions after survival of an acute coronary syndrome (ACS) provided there are residual stenoses of coronary arteries.
MATERIALS AND METHODS:  There were 112 patients suffering from ACS who took part in the research. The diagnosis was verified (acute myocardial infarction or unstable angina) in accordance with the recommendations of European Society of Cardiology (ESC). All patients were divided into two groups depending on the occurrence of major acute cardiac events (MACE): 59 patients with aggravated IHD progression and 152 patients with non-aggravated course. Echo-cardiography was performed on a scanner Philips iE33 (the Netherlands) with a consideration to systolic and diastolic functions parameters of a left ventricle. Quantitative analysis of the left ventricle was executed in the mode of Tissue Doppler Imaging (TDI) and according to the method of tracing the patches of the ultra-sound image gray scale (ST).
RESULTS: In the course of the aggravated IHD a decrease in systolic-diastolic function of left ventricle has been discovered. It has been found out that the amount of the systolic peak of longitudinal strain of the left ventricle anteroseptal wall less than 12% is associated with a greater extent of coronary atherosclerosis and aggravated progression of IHD. TDI and ST methods have enabled to reveal that in the course of non-aggravated IHD the contractility and the diastolic function of the left ventricle anteroseptal wall improve in combination with the increase in the contractility of the left ventricle inferolateral wall. During an aggravated IHD progression the contractility and diastolic function of the left ventricle anteresoptal wall decreases without an increase in contractility and diastolic function of the inferior and inferolateral walls of the left ventricle. The reason for such results might be a progressing myocardial ischemia of the left ventricle anteroseptal wall despite the sufficient anterior interventricular artery stenting. The presence of the relevant residual stenoses of the circumflex and right coronary arteries increases the possibility of the aggravated IHD progressing especially by the end of the fourth year of observation.
CONCLUSION: The disbalance of the local contractility of anterior, inferior and inferolateral left ventricle walls in the course of aggravated IHD is connected with the CA residual stenoses presence and forwards the decrease in global systolic-diastolic function of the left ventricle. The final results can serve as a foundation for optimization of recommendations for performing PCI on the patients with multivessel disease of CA.

Citation: Shveс DA and Povetkin SV. [The Role of Residual Stenosis of the Coronary Arteries in the Dynamics Systolicdiastolic Left Ventricular Function after Acute Coronary Syndrome]. [The Role of Residual Stenosis of the Coronary Arteries in the Dynamics Systolicdiastolic Left Ventricular Function after Acute Coronary Syndrome]. 2020; 60:33-40. doi: 10.18087/cardio.2020.2.n853

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32345196/
