PMID: 32341700
Title: Perspectives on Using Platelet-Rich Plasma and Platelet-Rich Fibrin for Managing Patients with Critical Lower Limb Ischemia After Partial Foot Amputation.

Abstract: The problem of lower limb preservation with symptoms of critical ischemia, resulting in necrosis of the distal foot portion, remains open. These cases require solving few tactical questions, such as the primary revascularization method, limb-preserving amputation, stimulation of regeneration, and finally, determining the criteria for auto-dermal transplantation. We analyzed 29 patient cases with critical lower limb ischemia of fourth grade, according to the Fontaine classification (or the sixth category according to Rutherford's classification), who underwent partial foot amputation due to dry gangrene and were threated using PRGF®-ENDORET® platelet-rich plasma and platelet-rich fibrin technology. The control group was comprised of 21 patients who received traditional postoperative wound treatment. All patients went through a combination of transluminal revascularization and platelet-rich plasma to create a "therapeutic" neoangiogenic effect. Indications for these procedures were severe distal arterial occlusion and stenosis. Using transluminal procedures with platelet-rich plasma therapy improves the blood perfusion to the distal portions of the limb in patients with critical ischemia in a short time, which is an informative diagnostic criterion for wound healing after amputation. Plasmatic membranes create an optimal environment for tissue regeneration, thus reducing the wound closure time using an auto-dermal transplant.

Citation: Goshchynsky V, et al. Perspectives on Using Platelet-Rich Plasma and Platelet-Rich Fibrin for Managing Patients with Critical Lower Limb Ischemia After Partial Foot Amputation. Perspectives on Using Platelet-Rich Plasma and Platelet-Rich Fibrin for Managing Patients with Critical Lower Limb Ischemia After Partial Foot Amputation. 2020; 13:45-49. doi: 10.25122/jml-2020-0028

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32341700/
