PMID: 32350306
Title: Association of Newly Found Asymptomatic Intracranial Artery Stenosis and Ideal Cardiovascular Health Metrics in Chinese Community Population.

Abstract: In the general population, there is a strong inverse relationship between the number of ideal cardiovascular health (CVH) metrics and the total incidence of cardiovascular diseases and stroke. However, the prevalence of ideal CVH is extremely low and there are few studies on its association with newly found asymptomatic intracranial arterial stenosis (AICAS). Therefore, we performed this prospective study to assess the relationship between the newly found AICAS and ideal CVH metrics in the Chinese community population. Seven ideal CVH metrics of 3,475 participants in the Asymptomatic Polyvascular Abnormalities Community study (APAC) conducted in China (1,962 men and 1,513 women between the ages of 45 and 75 years) were collected. Based on the occurrence of newly found AICAS, all participants were divided into the AICAS group and non-ICAS group. Prevalence of ideal CVH metrics was compared between the two groups. Logistic regression was used to estimate the association of newly found AICAS with ideal CVH metrics. The result was the number of ideal CVH metrics was strongly associated with age, gender, education levels and family income (each P < 0.0001). Among the seven CVH metrics total cholesterol (TC) was the only one showing significant difference between the newly found AICAS group and non-ICAS group in our 2 years observation. Participants with less ideal CVH metrics (≤3) were associated with significantly higher prevalence of AICAS than those with more (>3) ideal CVH metrics (OR, 1.27; P = 0.045). Furthermore, less (≤3) ideal CVH metrics was markedly associated with higher incidence of AICAS for all participants, younger participants (<60 years) (OR, 1.34; P = 0.046) and men participants (OR, 1.53; P = 0.032) after adjustment for gender, age, education level, family income and stroke history. Thus we conclude that participants with newly found AICAS have high prevalence of total cholesterol status, and Individuals with low ideal CVH metrics (≤3) are associated with significantly higher prevalence of asymptomatic ICAS, especially in high-risk population of young and men participants. Therefore, primordial prevention of stroke should also focus on those high-risk populations.

Citation: Fan C, et al. Association of Newly Found Asymptomatic Intracranial Artery Stenosis and Ideal Cardiovascular Health Metrics in Chinese Community Population. Association of Newly Found Asymptomatic Intracranial Artery Stenosis and Ideal Cardiovascular Health Metrics in Chinese Community Population. 2020; 10:7200. doi: 10.1038/s41598-020-63927-3

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32350306/
