PMID: 32350326
Title: Multi-layered Free-form 3D Cell-printed Tubular Construct with Decellularized Inner and Outer Esophageal Tissue-derived Bioinks.

Abstract: The incidences of various esophageal diseases (e.g., congenital esophageal stenosis, tracheoesophageal fistula, esophageal atresia, esophageal cancer) are increasing, but esophageal tissue is difficult to be recovered because of its weak regenerative capability. There are no commercialized off-the-shelf alternatives to current esophageal reconstruction and regeneration methods. Surgeons usually use ectopic conduit tissues including stomach and intestine, presumably inducing donor site morbidity and severe complications. To date, polymer-based esophageal substitutes have been studied as an alternative. However, the fabrication techniques are nearly limited to creating only cylindrical outer shapes with the help of additional apparatus (e.g., mandrels for electrospinning) and are unable to recapitulate multi-layered characteristic or complex-shaped inner architectures. 3D bioprinting is known as a suitable method to fabricate complex free-form tubular structures with desired pore characteristic. In this study, we developed a extrusion-based 3D printing technique to control the size and the shape of the pore in a single extrusion process, so that the fabricated structure has a higher flexibility than that fabricated in the conventional process. Based on this suggested technique, we developed a bioprinted 3D esophageal structure with multi-layered features and converged with biochemical microenvironmental cues of esophageal tissue by using decellularizedbioinks from mucosal and muscular layers of native esophageal tissues. The two types of esophageal tissue derived-decellularized extracellular matrix bioinks can mimic the inherent components and composition of original tissues with layer specificity. This structure can be applied to full-thickness circumferential esophageal defects and esophageal regeneration.

Citation: Nam H, et al. Multi-layered Free-form 3D Cell-printed Tubular Construct with Decellularized Inner and Outer Esophageal Tissue-derived Bioinks. Multi-layered Free-form 3D Cell-printed Tubular Construct with Decellularized Inner and Outer Esophageal Tissue-derived Bioinks. 2020; 10:7255. doi: 10.1038/s41598-020-64049-6

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32350326/
