PMID: 32350230
Title: Proteomics Profiling Reveals Insulin-Like Growth Factor 1, Collagen Type VI α-2 Chain, and Fermitin Family Homolog 3 as Potential Biomarkers of Plaque Erosion in ST-Segment Elevated Myocardial Infarction.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Plaque erosion (PE) has been considered a secondary pathogenesis of ST-segment elevated myocardial infarction (STEMI) following plaque rupture (PR). Previous studies demonstrated that they had different demographic and histology characteristics and need different treatment strategy. But there are few non-invasive plasma biomarkers for distinguishing them. The present study aimed to identify non-invasive predictive biomarkers for PE and PR in patients with STEMI.
METHODS AND RESULTS: A total 108 patients were recruited and grouped into a PE group (n=36), a PR group (n=36), and an unstable angina pectoris (UAP) (n=36) group for analysis. A 9-plex tandem mass tag (TMT)-based proteomics was used to compare plasma protein profiles of PE, PR, and UAP. In total, 36 significant differential proteins (DPs) were identified among groups, 10 of which were screened out using bio-information analysis and validated with enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). The relationship of angiography and optical coherence tomography (OCT) imaging data and the 10 target DPs was analyzed statistically. Logistic regression showed elevated collagen type VI α-2 chain (COL6A2) and insulin-like growth factor 1 (IGF1), and decreased fermitin family homolog 3 (FERMT3), were positively associated with PE. Multivariate analysis indicated IGF1, FERMT3, and COL6A2 had independent predictive ability for PE. IGF1 was inversely correlated with lumen stenosis and the lipid arc of the plaque.
CONCLUSIONS: IGF1, COL6A2, and FERMT3 are potential predictive biomarkers of PE in STEMI patients. And IGF1 was negatively correlated with the developing of culprit plaque.

Citation: Liu J, et al. Proteomics Profiling Reveals Insulin-Like Growth Factor 1, Collagen Type VI α-2 Chain, and Fermitin Family Homolog 3 as Potential Biomarkers of Plaque Erosion in ST-Segment Elevated Myocardial Infarction. Proteomics Profiling Reveals Insulin-Like Growth Factor 1, Collagen Type VI α-2 Chain, and Fermitin Family Homolog 3 as Potential Biomarkers of Plaque Erosion in ST-Segment Elevated Myocardial Infarction. 2020; 84:985-993. doi: 10.1253/circj.CJ-19-1206

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32350230/
