PMID: 32354168
Title: Changes in Whole-Blood microRNA Profiles during the Onset and Treatment Process of Cerebral Infarction: A Human Study.

Abstract: Circulating miRNA species are promising symptom markers for various diseases, including cardiovascular disease. However, studies regarding their role in the treatment process are limited, especially concerning cerebral infarction. This study aimed to extract miRNA markers to investigate whether they reflect both onset and treatment process of cerebral infarction. A total of 22 patients (P-group) and 22 control subjects (C-group) were examined for their whole-blood miRNA profiles using DNA GeneChip™ miRNA 4.0 Array, with six patients examined after treatment (T-group). A total of 64 miRNAs were found to be differentially expressed between the C- and P-groups. Out of 64 miRNAs, the expression levels of two miRNAs correlated with hypertension. A total of 155 miRNAs were differentially expressed between the P- and T-groups. Five common miRNAs were found among the 64 and 155 miRNAs identified. Importantly, these common miRNAs were inversely regulated in each comparison (e.g., C < P > T), including miR-505-5p, which was previously reported to be upregulated in aortic stenosis patients. Our previous study using rat cerebral infarction models detected the downregulation of an apoptosis repressor, WDR26, which was repressed by one of the five miRNAs. Our results provide novel information regarding the miRNA-based diagnosis of cerebral infarction in humans. In particular, the five common miRNAs could be useful makers for the onset and the treatment process. Trial registration: This study was registered in the UMIN Clinical Trials Registry (UMIN000038321).

Citation: Abe A, et al. Changes in Whole-Blood microRNA Profiles during the Onset and Treatment Process of Cerebral Infarction: A Human Study. Changes in Whole-Blood microRNA Profiles during the Onset and Treatment Process of Cerebral Infarction: A Human Study. 2020; 21:(unknown pages). doi: 10.3390/ijms21093107

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32354168/
