PMID: 32362019
Title: Transitional turbulent flow in a stenosed coronary artery with a physiological pulsatile flow.

Abstract: The turbulence in the blood flow, caused by plaque deposition on the arterial wall, increases by the combined effect of the complex plaque geometries and the pulsatile blood flow. The correlation between the plaque geometry, the pulsatile inlet flow and the induced turbulence in a constricted artery is investigated in this study. Pressure drop, flow velocity and wall shear stress are determined for stenosed coronary artery models with three different degrees of asymmetric stenosis and for different heart working conditions. A Computational Fluid Dynamics model, validated against experimental data published in the literature, was developed to simulate the blood pulsatile flow inside a stenosed coronary artery model. The transitional flow behaviour was quantified by investigation of the changes in the turbulence kinetic energy. It was shown that the separation starts from the side of the asymmetric stenosis and spreads to its opposite side further downstream. The results suggest that there is a high risk of the formation of a secondary stenosis at a downstream distance equal to 10 times of the artery diameter at the side and bottom regions of the first stenosis due to the existence of the recirculation zones and low shear stresses. Finally, a stenosed patient-specific coronary artery model was employed to illustrate the applicability of the obtained results for real geometry models. The results of this study provide a good prediction of pressure drop and blood flow rate, which can be applied in the investigation of the heart muscle workout and the required heart power.

Citation: Freidoonimehr N, et al. Transitional turbulent flow in a stenosed coronary artery with a physiological pulsatile flow. Transitional turbulent flow in a stenosed coronary artery with a physiological pulsatile flow. 2020; 36:e3347. doi: 10.1002/cnm.3347

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32362019/
