PMID: 32364307
Title: Usefulness of metalloproteinase-9 and tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinase-1 in clinical characterisation of children with newly diagnosed Crohn's disease.

Abstract: AIM: The aim of this study was to determine the relation of non-invasive markers representing gut mucosal damage (metalloproteinase-9 (MMP-9)) and remodelling (tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinase-1 (TIMP-1)) with Crohn's disease (CD) phenotype, disease activity scores (clinical and endoscopic) and radiological evaluation of the ileum in newly diagnosed children.
METHODS: Serum and faecal MMP-9 and TIMP-1 concentrations were determined with the sandwich enzyme-linked immunoassay technique. The performance of each marker with reference to the Paris classification, disease activity scores and magnetic resonance enterography results was assessed using non-parametric tests.
RESULTS: A total of 32 children with CD demonstrated higher levels of serum and faecal MMP-9 and TIMP-1 compared with a control group including children without gastrointestinal inflammatory disease (all P < 0.05). Only the serum MMP-9 concentration was significantly higher in children with L3 (ileocolonic) compared with children with L1 (distal ileum). The serum TIMP-1 level was significantly higher in patients with an magnetic resonance enterography-detected ileum involvement longer than 51 mm and in children with severe disease activity compared with other patients. The serum MMP-9 level was lower in patients with stenosis combined with prestenotic dilation compared with children without stenosis.
CONCLUSION: Increased serum and faecal MMP-9 and TIMP-1 concentrations are some reliable markers of inflammation in newly diagnosed children with CD, but without facilitating clear phenotyping of the disease.

Citation: Daniluk U, et al. Usefulness of metalloproteinase-9 and tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinase-1 in clinical characterisation of children with newly diagnosed Crohn's disease. Usefulness of metalloproteinase-9 and tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinase-1 in clinical characterisation of children with newly diagnosed Crohn's disease. 2020; 56:1233-1241. doi: 10.1111/jpc.14908

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32364307/
