PMID: 32368196
Title: Haemorrhagic stroke and major bleeding after intervention with biological aortic valve prosthesis: risk factors and antithrombotic treatment.

Abstract: The majority of patients with severe aortic stenosis are recommended intervention with a surgical biological prosthesis (bioSAVR) or a transcatheter aortic valve intervention (TAVI). The antithrombotic strategies after aortic valve intervention vary and include drugs targeting both platelets and the coagulation cascade. Long-term exposure and changes of antithrombotic treatment influence the risk of both bleeding and thromboembolic events.The aim was to describe an unselected sample of patients who have experienced haemorrhagic stroke and other major bleeding events after biological aortic prosthesis, their antithrombotic treatment and changes of treatments in relation to the bleeding event.All patients performing an bioSAVR or a TAVI 2008-2014 were identified in the SWEDEHEART registry and included in the study (n = 10 711). The outcome events were haemorrhagic stroke and other major bleeding event. Information of drug exposure was collected from the dispensed drug registry.The incidence rate of any bleeding event was 2.85/100 patient-years the first year after aortic valve intervention. Heart failure and atrial fibrillation were present more often in patients with a first haemorrhagic stroke or other major bleeding event compared to without. The proportion of exposure to warfarin was 28.7% vs. 21.3% in patients with and without a haemorrhagic stroke. Comparable figures were 31.2% vs. 19.0% in patients with and without other major bleeding event. During 1 month prior a haemorrhagic stroke or other major bleeding event 39.4% and 38.0%, respectively, of the patients not previously exposed to antithrombotic treatment started warfarin or single antiplatelet therapy.Major bleeding events are not uncommon after aortic valve intervention with a biological prosthesis. Evaluation of comorbidities and previous bleeding might improve risk stratification for bleeding in these elderly patients. The pattern of change of antithrombotic treatment was similar in the groups with and without a bleeding event and in most patients the antithrombotic regime was unchanged the month before an event.

Citation: Christersson C, et al. Haemorrhagic stroke and major bleeding after intervention with biological aortic valve prosthesis: risk factors and antithrombotic treatment. Haemorrhagic stroke and major bleeding after intervention with biological aortic valve prosthesis: risk factors and antithrombotic treatment. 2020; 22:C26-C33. doi: 10.1093/eurheartj/suaa007

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32368196/
