PMID: 32360920
Title: Radial Artery Graft for Giant Common Carotid Artery Pseudoaneurysm After Carotid Artery Stenting.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: We present a patient who underwent left superior temporal artery (STA)-to-right middle cerebral artery (MCA) bypass using a radial artery (RA) graft with resection of a giant right cervical common carotid artery (CCA) pseudoaneurysm after carotid artery stenting (CAS) and discuss the treatment strategy and surgical procedure in detail.
CASE DESCRIPTION: An 86-year-old male presented with sudden onset of altered consciousness and complete left hemiparesis. Magnetic resonance angiography and catheter angiography of the brain revealed occlusion of the right cervical ICA. Endovascular thrombectomy and stenting of the cervical segment of the ICA were performed. Thirty-two days after CAS, the patient developed a high fever and rapid swelling of the neck. Catheter angiography showed a giant right CCA pseudoaneurysm that had a fistula just proximal to the carotid stent, and the aneurysm extended to the neck entirely. Because of the expanding neck infection, stent placement long lesion, and lack of distal collateral flow on angiography, we performed aneurysm and stent removal and left STA-to-right MCA bypass using an RA graft. The harvested RA graft was anastomosed side to end to both the M2 segment of the right MCA and the left STA. Bypass patency was confirmed before neck exposure. The pseudoaneurysm and proximal portion area of the stent were resected. The patient recovered well postoperatively, and follow-up catheter angiography showed patency of the bypass.
CONCLUSIONS: Left STA-RA-right MCA bypass with aneurysm resection is a good treatment option for giant CCA pseudoaneurysms that occur after CAS.

Citation: Matano F, et al. Radial Artery Graft for Giant Common Carotid Artery Pseudoaneurysm After Carotid Artery Stenting. Radial Artery Graft for Giant Common Carotid Artery Pseudoaneurysm After Carotid Artery Stenting. 2020; 139:401-404. doi: 10.1016/j.wneu.2020.04.173

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32360920/
