PMID: 32370648
Title: Use of a novel immediate access dialysis graft designed to prevent needle-related complications: A first-in-man case report.

Abstract: Currently, there is no vascular access that possesses all ideal qualities for hemodialysis access, but attributes particularly lacking include: ease of identification (cannulation zone), ease of access, resistance to stenosis, durable to repetitive cannulation, resistance to infection, resistance to acute needle-related injuries, and instant hemostasis. The overall value of these attributes could be appreciated in the reduction of complications (patient burden and suffering, which can also result in increased healthcare costs), and improved safety and durability. In this case report, we present a novel hemodialysis access graft that has the potential to provide the following benefits: it is designed to be self-sealing and immediately usable post implant, easy to identify, easy to access, has more durable cannulation zones, and protects from needle-related injuries. This case report describes the first-in-man use of this novel graft technology to replace a giant, thrombotic, and difficult-to-access arteriovenous fistula to provide the patient with a potentially safer and more durable access that does not require placement of a bridging dialysis catheter. This single-patient experience suggests that implantation and function of this novel graft as a hemodialysis access is feasible in a human subject with end-stage renal disease, and it suggests that the novel properties (i.e. immediate use, easy identification, easy use, cannulation zone durability, and protection from needle-related injuries) of this graft seem to function as intended.

Citation: Gage SM, et al. Use of a novel immediate access dialysis graft designed to prevent needle-related complications: A first-in-man case report. Use of a novel immediate access dialysis graft designed to prevent needle-related complications: A first-in-man case report. 2021; 22:475-479. doi: 10.1177/1129729820917265

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32370648/
