PMID: 32376201
Title: Outcome and effect of endovascular treatment in stroke associated with acute extracranial internal carotid artery occlusion: Single-center experience in Japan.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Positive data from several randomized controlled trials (RCTs) of endovascular treatment (EVT) for acute ischemic stroke (AIS) patients with anterior circulation large vessel occlusion (ACLVO) have emerged. However, little evidence exists on EVT for acute extracranial internal carotid artery (EC-ICA) occlusion. We therefore analysed the outcome and effect of EVT on AIS due to ACLVO caused by EC-ICA occlusion, including tandem occlusion compared with that caused by pure intracranial artery occlusion.
METHODS: A total of 135 consecutive AIS patients with ACLVO between July 2014 and December 2017 were identified. We retrospectively analysed the efficacy of EVT for ACLVO after introducing a stent retriever (SR). We classified ACLVO into the following categories: group A, intracranial artery occlusion without EC-ICA occlusion (pure intracranial artery occlusion), and group B, ipsilateral EC-ICA occlusion with/without intracranial artery occlusion.
RESULTS: In total, 65 patients were enrolled. Group A comprised 71% (46/65) of all cases. No difference was observed in terms of age, National Institute of Health Stroke Scale (NIHSS) score, Alberta Stroke Program Early Computed Tomography Score-Diffusion Weighted imaging (ASPECTS-DWI), several clinical time intervals, rate of successful revascularization (74% versus 84%), and rate of functional independence (42% versus 39%) between groups A and B. In all patients, an ASPECTS-DWI ≥6 and an onset-to-door time ≤6 h were associated with good outcome, whereas intracranial artery occlusion without EC-ICA occlusion (pure intracranial artery occlusion) was not.
CONCLUSIONS: The outcomes support the efficacy of EVT in stroke associated with acute EC-ICA occlusion. In the EVT of AIS due to ACLVO, there was no significant difference in the results between ipsilateral EC-ICA occlusion with/without intracranial artery occlusion and intracranial artery occlusion without EC-ICA occlusion (pure intracranial artery occlusion).

Citation: Mizowaki T, et al. Outcome and effect of endovascular treatment in stroke associated with acute extracranial internal carotid artery occlusion: Single-center experience in Japan. Outcome and effect of endovascular treatment in stroke associated with acute extracranial internal carotid artery occlusion: Single-center experience in Japan. 2020; 29:104824. doi: 10.1016/j.jstrokecerebrovasdis.2020.104824

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32376201/
