PMID: 32376367
Title: Anti-inflammatory, analgesic activity, and toxicity of Pituranthos scoparius stem extract: An ethnopharmacological study in rat and mouse models.

Abstract: ETHNOPHARMACOLOGICAL RELEVANCE: Pituranthos scoparius is a medicinal plant that is used in traditional medicine in Algeria and other North African nations to treat several diseases such as asthma, rheumatism, measles, dermatoses, jaundice, and digestive disorders.
AIM OF THE STUDY: The present investigation was designed to investigate an ethnobotanical survey about Pituranthos scoparius in Setif region, Algeria, and assess the acute toxicity, in vivo anti-inflammatory potential and analgesic effect of Pituranthos scoparius hydromethanolic stem extract (PSSE) in rats and mice models.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Acute toxicity of PSSE was carried out based on OECD guidelines 425. Both possible death and signs accompanying toxicity of animals were monitored for 14 days to establish the median lethal dose (LD<sub>50</sub>) of PSSE. Anti-inflammatory effect of the extract was evaluated using the xylene, croton oil-induced ear edema, and carrageenan-induced paw edema, whereas the analgesic activity was evaluated using acetic acid-induced abdominal constriction in mice model.
RESULTS: Data from the ethnopharmacological survey showed that 24.47% of people used this plant in traditional (folk) medicine. Results also revealed that PSSE contains high amounts of polyphenols, flavonoids, and tannins, and that the extract did not cause any deaths or changes in the behavior of treated animals; LD<sub>50</sub> values were found to be higher than 5 g/kg BW. Additionally, no significant variations were observed in the alkaline phosphatase (ALP), alanine aminotransferase (ALT), and aspartate aminotransferase (AST) enzymes, or in the levels of urea and creatinine. Oral administration of PSSE at the doses of 100, 300, and 600 mg/kg produced a significant dose-dependent inhibition effect in both xylene and croton oil-induced ear edema in mice. Administration of PSSE at a dose of 100, 250, and 500 mg/kg significantly (P &lt; 0.05) exhibited anti-edematogenic effect in the carrageenan-induced rat paw edema after 3 h. In acetic acid-induced writhing model, PSSE significantly (P &lt; 0.05) reduced writhing at a dose of 500 mg/kg with 69.92% of inhibition.
CONCLUSIONS: Taken all together, PSSE is non-toxic, and exhibits potent anti-inflammatory and analgesic activities. Through the ethnomedicinal study, our findings highlight the medicinal use of PSSE in traditional medicine and as an additional source of natural and safe anti-inflammatory agents.

Citation: Karbab A, et al. Anti-inflammatory, analgesic activity, and toxicity of Pituranthos scoparius stem extract: An ethnopharmacological study in rat and mouse models. Anti-inflammatory, analgesic activity, and toxicity of Pituranthos scoparius stem extract: An ethnopharmacological study in rat and mouse models. 2020; 258:112936. doi: 10.1016/j.jep.2020.112936

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32376367/
