PMID: 32373192
Title: Tougu Xiaotong capsule exerts a therapeutic effect by improving knee meniscus in the early osteoarthritis rat model.

Abstract: The aim of the study was to observe the effects of Tougu Xiaotong capsule (TGXTC) on the microstructure and ultrastructure of meniscus in rats with early knee osteoarthritis (KOA). A total of 27 Sprague Dawley rats were randomly divided into three groups: The normal group (non-papain-induced KOA; received saline only), the model group (papain-induced KOA; received saline only) and the TGXTC group [papain-induced KOA; received TGXTC (0.31g·kg-1·d-1)]. After 4 weeks treatment, the animals were anesthetized and the sagittal plane of the intact knees (n=6 per group) was obtained and prepared in paraffin section. Following hematoxylin and eosin staining, the degeneration of cartilage structure was evaluated via Mankin score, the microstructure of meniscus was observed and the area of calcification in meniscus was analyzed. Following toluidine blue staining, the content of proteoglycan in meniscus was analyzed. Three samples in each group were obtained and the ultrathin sections of meniscus were observed through a transmission electron microscope. The results showed that compared with the normal group, in the model group the joint space became narrow and the cartilage layer was slightly damaged and the Mankin score was 4.17±0.76, suggesting that the early KOA model was successfully established. After TGXTC treatment, the joint space stenosis and cartilage damage were improved as the Mankin score significantly decreased. Compared with the normal group, in the model group the surface of meniscal cartilage was much more uneven, the area of calcification was significantly increased and the content of proteoglycan of cartilage matrix was significantly decreased. However, following TGXTC treatment, the surface of the meniscal cartilage was much more smooth and flat, and the damage of tissue structure and the calcified area were significantly reduced, and the proteoglycan of cartilage matrix content was significantly increased. Compared with the normal group, the number of cellular processes and organelles, including the rough endoplasmic reticulum, mitochondria and Golgi apparatus of meniscal cartilage were reduced and swollen in the model group. In addition, the nuclei were deformed and heterochromatin agglutinated. The extracellular collagen fibrils became slender, disordered and sparse. Compared with the model group, the TGXTC group had more cell processes and organelles, alleviated swelling and heterochromatin agglutinating. Additionally, the collagen fibrils around the cells were thicker, larger and arranged in an orderly manner. In conclusion, TGXTC exerted its therapeutic effects on the development of KOA via reducing the destruction of the cartilage structure of the meniscus and improving the composition and function of the meniscus cartilage matrix.

Citation: Wu G, et al. Tougu Xiaotong capsule exerts a therapeutic effect by improving knee meniscus in the early osteoarthritis rat model. Tougu Xiaotong capsule exerts a therapeutic effect by improving knee meniscus in the early osteoarthritis rat model. 2020; 19:3641-3649. doi: 10.3892/etm.2020.8624

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32373192/
