PMID: 32378597
Title: Assessment of postoperative nutritional status and physical function between open surgical aortic valve replacement and transcatheter aortic valve implantation in elderly patients.

Abstract: Background and aims : Severe aortic stenosis (AS) has been normally treated with surgical aortic valve replacement (AVR) whereas recently, transcatheter aortic valve implantation (TAVI) has been introduced as a minimally invasive operation for patients with high surgical risk and frailty. In this study, we have evaluated postoperative physical function and nutrition intake in the patients following AVR and TAVI. Methods : This prospective observational study involved 9 patients with surgical aortic valve replacement (AVR) and 7 patients with transcatheter aortic valve implantation (TAVI). Body composition was measured one day prior surgery, postoperative day (POD) 1, POD 3, POD 5 and POD 7. Hand grip strength, calf circumference and gait speed were measured one day before surgery and on the day of discharge. Results : Skeletal muscle was significantly decreased in AVR patients at postoperative day 3 and 7, while there was no change in TAVI patients. Patients with TAVI showed higher dietary intake after surgery compared to patients with AVR, and they maintained hand grip strength and calf circumference at discharge. Conclusions : In elderly patients with AS, TAVI can improve post-operative recovery maintaining nutritional status and physical function even. J. Med. Invest. 67 : 139-144, February, 2020.

Citation: Sebe M, et al. Assessment of postoperative nutritional status and physical function between open surgical aortic valve replacement and transcatheter aortic valve implantation in elderly patients. Assessment of postoperative nutritional status and physical function between open surgical aortic valve replacement and transcatheter aortic valve implantation in elderly patients. 2020; 67:139-144. doi: 10.2152/jmi.67.139

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32378597/
