PMID: 32387621
Title: Effects of rivaroxaban and dabigatran on local expression of coagulation and inflammatory factors within human aortic stenotic valves.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Treatment with non-vitamin K antagonist oral anticoagulants (NOACs) such as dabigatran (a direct thrombin inhibitor) or rivaroxaban (a direct inhibitor of factor [F] Xa) attenuates atherosclerotic plaque progression in hypercholesterolemic mice.
PURPOSE: To evaluate the effect of NOACs application on the expression of coagulation proteins in loco within stenotic aortic valves and in valve interstitial cells (VICs) from patients with severe aortic stenosis (AS).
METHODS: Primary cultures of VICs obtained from 90 patients undergoing aortic valve replacement were stimulated with TNF-α (50 ng/mL) and pre-treated with rivaroxaban (1 and 10 ng/mL) or dabigatran (25 and 250 ng/mL). The expression of coagulation proteins was analyzed by immunofluorescence. Cytokine levels were measured by ELISA.
RESULTS: FX, FXa, FVII, thrombin and PAR1/2 were present in loco within human aortic stenotic valves. Cultured VICs exhibited constant expression of FX, TF, PAR1/2. Exposure of VICs to TNF-α caused the upregulated expression of TF, PAR1/2 and induced expression of thrombin, FVII and FXa. FX was expressed by 80% of VICs, regardless of stimulation. Cultured VICs were able to synthesize metalloproteinases 1-3, IL-6, IL-32, IL-34, osteopontin and osteocalcin, the levels of which increased under TNF-α stimulation. NOACs added to culture inhibited coagulation factor and PAR1/2 expression. Moreover, NOACs down-regulated VIC-derived proteins responsible for valve calcification and extracellular matrix remodeling.
CONCLUSIONS: NOACs at therapeutic concentrations may inhibit the effects of FXa and thrombin at in vitro level. It might be speculated that long-term treatment with rivaroxaban or dabigatran could attenuate the progression of AS in humans.

Citation: Wypasek E, et al. Effects of rivaroxaban and dabigatran on local expression of coagulation and inflammatory factors within human aortic stenotic valves. Effects of rivaroxaban and dabigatran on local expression of coagulation and inflammatory factors within human aortic stenotic valves. 2020; 130:106679. doi: 10.1016/j.vph.2020.106679

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32387621/
