PMID: 32389995
Title: [A Case of Intestinal Obstruction Caused by Peritoneal Metastatic Recurrence One Year after Radical Operation for Pancreatic Cancer].

Abstract: In December 20XX-1, abdominal enhanced CT of a 73-year-old female patient showed a 28mm-in-diameter pancreatic tail cancer with splenic venous invasion. She underwent neoadjuvant GEM/TS-1 combination chemotherapy but abandoned this chemotherapy due to melena and exanthema. She underwent a distal pancreatectomy with lymph node dissemination. In these pathological findings, the tumor was diagnosed as a pancreatic tail cancer with splenic venous invasion(T3, N0, M0, Stage ⅡA). She underwent adjuvant GEM chemotherapy, but she abandoned this chemotherapy due to exanthema and was managed with observation. In September 20XX, she had a postoperative bowel obstruction and was treated with natural light. However, she had a postoperative bowel obstruction again in July, 20XX+1. Fluoroscopic images revealed stenosis in the intestine located 170 cm from the nasal cavity. She underwent open surgery to manage the bowel obstruction. There was a peritoneal tumor with adhesion to each intestine serosa in 3 areas located 80 cm, 100 cm, and 150 cm from the Treitz ligament. Therefore, she underwent a small intestine resection and anastomosis 70 cm to 110 cm from the Treitz ligament. Pathological findings showed that there was a 3mm-in-diameter adenocarcinoma in this peritoneal tumor. In these findings, this final diagnosis was an adhesive intestinal obstruction caused by peritoneal metastasis. Curative resection for single peritoneal recurrent metastasis might be useful for prognosis prolongation.

Citation: Ota H, et al. [A Case of Intestinal Obstruction Caused by Peritoneal Metastatic Recurrence One Year after Radical Operation for Pancreatic Cancer]. [A Case of Intestinal Obstruction Caused by Peritoneal Metastatic Recurrence One Year after Radical Operation for Pancreatic Cancer]. 2020; 47:718-721.

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32389995/
