PMID: 32382360
Title: Transvenous embolization through the ipsilateral deep facial vein: A novel approach route for treatment of a cavernous sinus dural arteriovenous fistula.

Abstract: The superior ophthalmic vein (SOV) approach through the facial vein is usually preferred for transvenous embolization of a cavernous sinus dural arteriovenous fistula (CS DAVF) when the ipsilateral inferior petrosal sinus is angiographically occluded. However, navigating the microcatheter can sometimes be difficult because of stenosis or tortuous angulation at the junction between the angular vein and SOV. We present a novel transvenous access route to treat a CS DAVF using the ipsilateral deep facial vein through the SOV to reach the cavernous sinus. A 66-year-old woman presented with left-sided chemosis, exophthalmos, and external ophthalmoplegia. Angiography showed a left CS DAVF associated with a dilated SOV and retrograde cortical venous reflux. A dilated drainage vein, which branched from the SOV, ran through the lateral aspect of the orbit and exited the orbit through the inferior orbital fissure. This vein connected with the ipsilateral deep facial vein draining into the facial and internal jugular veins. We performed transvenous embolization via the SOV approach through the deep facial vein and achieved complete obliteration, by placing 3 platinum coils, without complications. Ophthalmic veins may connect with the cavernous sinus and pterygoid plexus, passing through the superior and inferior orbital fissures, respectively. Our case suggests that the deep facial vein may provide access to the SOV through the inferior orbital fissure without passing the difficult tortuous angle between the angular vein and SOV.

Citation: Nakai T, et al. Transvenous embolization through the ipsilateral deep facial vein: A novel approach route for treatment of a cavernous sinus dural arteriovenous fistula. Transvenous embolization through the ipsilateral deep facial vein: A novel approach route for treatment of a cavernous sinus dural arteriovenous fistula. 2020; 15:675-679. doi: 10.1016/j.radcr.2020.03.006

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32382360/
