PMID: 32390609
Title: The impact of moderate Aortic Valve Disease in patients undergoing MitraClip for severe MR.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: High surgical risk patients presenting with severe mitral valve regurgitation (MR) and concomitant aortic valve disease are frequently a challenge for the interdisciplinary heart team meeting. If open-heart surgery for severe MR is performed, aortic stenosis (AS) or regurgitation (AR) is corrected during the same procedure if at least moderate severity of AS or AR has been confirmed. In patients with prohibitive surgical risk, optimal management strategies in the light of available transcatheter interventions still needs to be established.
METHODS AND RESULTS: In this retrospective single center study, we aimed to investigate the impact of coincident moderate aortic valve disease on the outcome of patients undergoing MitraClip for severe MR. In 286 MitraClip procedures performed in our institution, 21 patients (7,3%) were identified to suffer from concomitant moderate AS and 28 patients had moderate AR (9,8%). Patients with AS were found to have a higher incidence of >moderate MR following the procedure when compared to patients without aortic valve disease (14,3% vs. 8,9%, p = 0.001). No differences between the groups were found regarding a combined endpoint of all cause deaths and heart failure hospitalizations after 1 year follow up (no aortic-valve disease vs. moderate AS: 19% vs 18%; p = 0,881 and no aortic valve disease vs moderate AR: 19% vs. 25%; p = 0.477). However, mortality was significantly higher in patients with coincidental moderate AR (3.8% patients without aortic valve disease, 5% in patients with AS, 17,9% in patients with AR; p = 0.006).
CONCLUSION: According to our analysis coincidental Aortic valve stenosis may be associated with worse technical results regarding residual MR after MitraClip. Although our results regarding a combined endpoint of all-cause mortality and heart failure hospitalizations within one year of follow up were comparable between the groups, patients with moderate AR had significantly higher mortality rates. Due to the limited number of patients, our study is only hypothesis generating. Larger trials are necessary to confirm our result.

Citation: Al-Hindwan HSA, et al. The impact of moderate Aortic Valve Disease in patients undergoing MitraClip for severe MR. The impact of moderate Aortic Valve Disease in patients undergoing MitraClip for severe MR. 2020; 75:447-455. doi: 10.3233/CH-200818

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32390609/
