PMID: 32397756
Title: Facial Artery Musculomucosal Flap for Nasopharyngeal and Oropharyngeal Reconstruction.

Abstract: Importance: The facial artery musculomucosal (FAMM) flap is a well vascularized axial flap which has been described for mucosal reconstructions throughout the oral cavity. There are limited data regarding its efficacy in secondary repair of nasopharyngeal stenosis and velopharyngeal insufficiency due previous surgery and scar tissue formation. Objective: This study seeks to demonstrate the efficacy of FAMM flap procedure in patients with nasopharyngeal stenosis and velopharyngeal insufficiency. Design, Setting, and Participants: A retrospective case series included patients treated for nasopharyngeal stenosis or velopharyngeal insufficiency with a FAMM flap at an academic medical center from January 1, 2012 to November 1, 2017. Patients included in the study were those who underwent a FAMM flap procedure by the senior author during the specified time period. Main Outcomes and Measures: Functional outcomes included nasopharyngeal airway patency, nasal regurgitation, and speech quality. Any postoperative complications were recorded, including flap necrosis, infection, flap failure, dehiscence, trismus and need for revision surgery. Results: A total of 6 FAMM flap procedures were performed by the senior author over the study period for the indications of this case series. Three patients had nasopharyngeal stenosis and three had velopharyngeal insufficiency. All had successful, sustained nasopharyngeal airway patency or restored velopharyngeal function. The only postoperative complication noted was trismus at the cheek donor site. There were no patients who suffered flap failure or need for revision surgery of the FAMM flap. Conclusions: The FAMM flap is useful for secondary reconstruction of nasopharyngeal stenosis and velopharyngeal insufficiency due to previous surgery and scarring. This study demonstrates the efficacy and reliability of FAMM flaps for repair of complete/near complete nasopharyngeal stenosis and cases of velopharyngeal insufficiency due to scarring of the pharynx.

Citation: Mannino EA, et al. Facial Artery Musculomucosal Flap for Nasopharyngeal and Oropharyngeal Reconstruction. Facial Artery Musculomucosal Flap for Nasopharyngeal and Oropharyngeal Reconstruction. 2020; 22:449-455. doi: 10.1089/fpsam.2019.0001

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32397756/
