PMID: 32404286
Title: Prognostic evaluation of branch atheromatous disease in the pons using carotid artery ultrasonography.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Branch atheromatous disease is an ischemic stroke, involving occlusion or severe stenosis of the perforating artery, causing neurologic symptoms and serious sequelae. We aimed to investigate initial morphometric and hemodynamic characteristics of the vertebral artery immediately post-onset to predict lesion expanding.
METHODS: This case-control study collected demographic, historical, and physical examination data from 44 patients with branch atheromatous disease in the pons at admission. The maximum ischemic pons area and stenosis rate in the basilar artery were calculated using magnetic resonance images. Diameter, velocity, and flow volume of the vertebral arteries were measured using carotid artery ultrasonography. Correlations between ischemic lesion extent and these parameters were investigated.
RESULTS: Patients were assigned to groups of less (Group 1) or more (Group 2) than the median maximum ischemic area in the pons, calculated from magnetic resonance images (121.6 mm2). Modified Rankin scale scores were significantly worse in Group 2. Blood pressure and blood findings were similar between groups. Group 2 showed significantly higher basilar artery stenosis rates. Flow volume, velocity, peak systolic velocity, and end-diastolic velocity in the vertebral artery on both sides were significantly decreased in Group 2.
CONCLUSIONS: Deteriorated vertebral artery hemodynamics caused a more extensive ischemic lesion in branch atheromatous disease in the pons. Evaluation of the vertebral using carotid artery ultrasonography in the acute phase may be useful for predicting disease progression.

Citation: Takahashi S, et al. Prognostic evaluation of branch atheromatous disease in the pons using carotid artery ultrasonography. Prognostic evaluation of branch atheromatous disease in the pons using carotid artery ultrasonography. 2020; 29:104852. doi: 10.1016/j.jstrokecerebrovasdis.2020.104852

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32404286/
