PMID: 32400068
Title: Impact of aortic angle on transcatheter aortic valve implantation outcome with Evolut-R, Portico, and Acurate-NEO.

Abstract: OBJECTIVES: To investigate paravalvular leak (PVL) and devices success rates according to aortic angle (AA) in patients undergoing transcatheter aortic valve implantation (TAVI) with three new-generation self-expanding devices.
BACKGROUND: The impact of aortic angle (AA) on TAVI device success and PVL rates is controversial.
METHODS: This retrospective study included 392 patients submitted to TAVI for severe aortic stenosis with Portico, Evolut-R and Acurate-NEO, and available AA measurements at computed tomography (CT) angiography. AA was calculated from the implantation projection and was defined as the angle between the plane of aortic annulus and an ideal horizontal plane. Aorta was defined horizontal if AA>57° (75th percentile).
RESULTS: In the horizontal group, the rates of moderate/severe PVL was higher in the Evolut-R group (20.8%), which was also characterized by a lower implant compared to that of Acurate-NEO, whereas device success was comparable among the three devices. AA was a significant predictor of moderate/severe PVLs (AUC 0.72, p = .002) only in the Evolut-R population. On multivariate analysis, calcium volume 850HU, bicuspid aortic valve, and implantation depth at the level of left coronary cusp were independent predictors of moderate/severe PVL. On univariate analysis in the horizontal aorta population, implantation depth was confirmed among the most significant predictors of moderate/severe PVL.
CONCLUSIONS: Despite comparable device success rates, horizontal aorta represented a technical challenge only in the Evolut-R subgroup, which showed higher rates of moderate/severe PVL than Portico and Acurate-NEO, and was associated with a low implant.

Citation: Gorla R, et al. Impact of aortic angle on transcatheter aortic valve implantation outcome with Evolut-R, Portico, and Acurate-NEO. Impact of aortic angle on transcatheter aortic valve implantation outcome with Evolut-R, Portico, and Acurate-NEO. 2021; 97:E135-E145. doi: 10.1002/ccd.28957

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32400068/
