PMID: 32416038
Title: Clinical Significance of Spontaneous Portosystemic Shunts in Living Donor Liver Transplantation.

Abstract: Spontaneous portosystemic shunts (SPSS) are commonly observed in patients undergoing living donor liver transplantation (LDLT); however, their impact on the outcome after transplantation is unclear. We aimed to assess the type, size, and the effects of SPSS on outcomes after LDLT. A total of 339 LDLT recipients in a single institution were included. The type and diameter of the SPSS (splenorenal shunt [SRS], oesogastric shunt, and umbilical shunt) were retrospectively analyzed. A large shunt was defined as having a diameter ≤7 mm. No portal flow modulation was attempted over time. Portal complications were defined as stenosis, thrombosis, or hepatofugal flow requiring any treatment after transplantation. There were 202 (59.0%) patients who exhibited at least 1 large SPSS. Neither the size nor type of SPSS was associated with mortality, morbidity, or liver function recovery. However, the incidence of portal complications was significantly higher in patients with a large SRS (8.6% versus 2.9%; P = 0.04). Multivariate analysis of portal complications revealed 2 independent predictors: pre-LT portal vein thrombosis (PVT) and SRS size. The observed risk among recipients with pre-LT PVT was 8.3% when the SRS was ≤7 mm, but increased to 38.5% when the SRS was >15 mm. The present study suggests that large SPSS do not negatively affect the outcomes after LDLT. However, a large SRS is associated with a higher risk of portal complications, particularly in recipients with pre-LT PVT, for whom intraoperative intervention for SRS should be considered. Otherwise, a conservative approach to SPSS during LDLT seems reasonable.

Citation: Allard MA, et al. Clinical Significance of Spontaneous Portosystemic Shunts in Living Donor Liver Transplantation. Clinical Significance of Spontaneous Portosystemic Shunts in Living Donor Liver Transplantation. 2021; 27:77-87. doi: 10.1002/lt.25798

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32416038/
