PMID: 32416483
Title: Laryngeal suspension, combined with rehabilitation and nutritional support, improved the clinical course of a patient with sarcopenic dysphasia.

Abstract: INTRODUCTION: Sarcopenic dysphasia is a relatively new disease concept describing impairments in swallowing resulting from a generalized loss of skeletal muscle mass.
PRESENTATION OF CASE: In this case report, we describe the clinical history and presentation of a 76-year-old man who developed mild sarcopenic dysphasia following a period of physical inactivity after spinal stenosis surgery, which resulted in a loss of 10 kg of body weight in the 10-month period after surgery. The patient's dysphasia was managed with laryngeal suspension, performed via a minimally invasive thyromandibulopexy, in combination with rehabilitation and nutritional support. After a brief period of postoperative rehabilitation, the patient was able to eat soft meals on postoperative day 14, and a regular meal on postoperative day 18, without aspiration. We include a brief description of our surgical technique in the case report.
DISCUSSION: Laryngeal suspension compensated for a decreased functional capacity of the swallowing muscles, with postoperative rehabilitation improving the strength of the swallowing muscles. Fixation of the thyroid cartilage to the mandible compensated for insufficient opening of the esophageal orifice, decreasing the pyriform sinus residue. Drawing of the thyroid cartilage in an anterosuperior position improved the anterosuperior position of the epiglottis, shortening the distance between the epiglottis and the base of the tongue, which narrowed the vallecula space and decreased vallecular residue.
CONCLUSION: Based on our experience, laryngeal suspension, via minimally invasive thyromandibulopexy, could be considered to improve the outcomes of sarcopenic dysphagia, with an earlier return to eating normal meals.

Citation: Kasahara K, et al. Laryngeal suspension, combined with rehabilitation and nutritional support, improved the clinical course of a patient with sarcopenic dysphasia. Laryngeal suspension, combined with rehabilitation and nutritional support, improved the clinical course of a patient with sarcopenic dysphasia. 2020; 70:140-144. doi: 10.1016/j.ijscr.2020.04.068

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32416483/
