PMID: 32429637
Title: [Clinical Effect of Pedicled Pericardial Fat Flap in Prevention of Bronchial Pleural Fistula in Bronchial Sleeve Lobectomy].

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Bronchial sleeve lobectomy is essential surgical approach to treat centralized lung cancer. It is the best reflected the principle of lung cancer surgery, "remove tumor completely while minimize pulmonary function loss". Bronchial pleural fistula (BPF) is not common but very severe complication of bronchial sleeve lobectomy, that is usually fatal. Present article is to explore clinical effect on prevention of bronchial pleural fistula (BPF) in bronchial sleeve lobectomy, by wrapping brachial anastomosis with pedicled pericardial fat flap.
METHODS: Clinical data of 39 non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) patients who underwent surgical resection during January 2016 to May 2019 in Lung Cancer Center of West China Hospital, Sichuan University were collected and retrospectively analyzed. All of the patients underwent bronchial sleeve lobectomy and a brachial anastomosis wrapping with pedicled pericardial fat flap.
RESULTS: All patients recovered well and were discharged within 6 d-14 d after operation. No BPF occurred, nor other severe complications, such as reoperation needing intrathoracic bleeding, several pneumonia and respiratory failure, and life threatening cardiac arrhythmia. Only one patient (1/39) had several anastomotic stenosis and consequential atelectasis of residual lung in operative side 6 months after surgery.
CONCLUSIONS: Wrapping bronchial anastomosis with pedicled pericardial fat flap in bronchial lobectomy for centralized NSCLC is a simple and effective approach to prevent BPF, thus safety of the operation could be significantly improved.

Citation: Li X, et al. [Clinical Effect of Pedicled Pericardial Fat Flap in Prevention of Bronchial Pleural Fistula in Bronchial Sleeve Lobectomy]. [Clinical Effect of Pedicled Pericardial Fat Flap in Prevention of Bronchial Pleural Fistula in Bronchial Sleeve Lobectomy]. 2020; 23:360-364. doi: 10.3779/j.issn.1009-3419.2020.104.01

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32429637/
