PMID: 32428866
Title: Interaction Between Balloon-Expandable Valves and Coronary Ostia: Angiographic Analysis and Impact on Coronary Access.

Abstract: OBJECTIVES: We sought to evaluate the position of balloon-expandable valves in relation to the coronary ostia using an angiographic- and computed tomography (CT)-based analysis, and to determine the impact of valve position on coronary angiography (CA)/percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) feasibility and results.
METHODS: A total of 533 patients who received a Sapien XT or Sapien 3 valve were included in the angiographic analysis. Of these, 49 benefited from an opportunistic electrocardiography-gated CT after transcatheter aortic valve replacement (TAVR) and were included in the CT analysis.
RESULTS: Regarding the left coronary artery (LCA) ostium, the top of the transcatheter heart valve (THV) frame was infraostial in 49% of cases, and the valve totally covered the LCA ostium in 27% of patients. The stent frame of the Sapien 3 valve completely covered the LCA ostium more frequently than the Sapien XT valve (43% vs 12%, respectively; P<.001) and the relative implantation depth was significantly less ventricular in the Sapien 3 group than in the Sapien XT group (28.0 ± 12.3% vs 36.8 ± 12.6%, respectively; P<.001). The CT evaluation found similar results to angiographic evaluation. A total of 53 patients (10%) underwent CA (± PCI) following TAVR, and valve position did not influence CA performance/quality and PCI results.
CONCLUSIONS: The stent frame of balloon-expandable Sapien valves exceeded the coronary ostia in about one-fourth of patients, and this percentage was >40% with the new-generation Sapien 3 valve. However, THV position did not affect the feasibility, quality, and results of CA/PCI post TAVR.

Citation: Faroux L, et al. Interaction Between Balloon-Expandable Valves and Coronary Ostia: Angiographic Analysis and Impact on Coronary Access. Interaction Between Balloon-Expandable Valves and Coronary Ostia: Angiographic Analysis and Impact on Coronary Access. 2020; 32:235-242.

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32428866/
