PMID: 32426250
Title: Laryngeal stent for acute and chronic respiratory distress in seven dogs with laryngeal paralysis.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Laryngeal paralysis, failure of arytenoid cartilage, and vocal fold abduction are commonly seen in older medium to large breed dogs. Observation of laryngeal function in dogs and cats is performed by transoral visualization. There are a variety of surgical techniques; aspiration pneumonia is the most common complication associated with surgical correction of laryngeal paralysis. The aim of this case series is to report on the placement of a laryngeal silicone stent in seven dogs with laryngeal paralysis and its use as an alternative treatment of respiratory distress caused by laryngeal paralysis and/or its use for laryngeal stenosis as complication of laryngeal paralysis surgery.
CASE DESCRIPTION: Seven dogs presented with either episode of gagging, mild-to-severe inspiratory distress, or cyanosis because of a laryngeal paralysis or laryngeal stenosis. In each case, the laryngeal paralysis was diagnosed by direct laryngoscopy. They were treated with a silicone laryngeal stent (Stening®) that substantially improved the clinical signs. Each dog had a different outcome because of other pathologies; however, the laryngeal pathology was successfully treated with the stent.
CONCLUSION: The placement of the laryngeal stent is an easy technique to learn and practice, it could avoid the life-threatening complications of the laryngeal paralysis at the acute phase, and it could be a noninvasive and long-term alternative therapy for laryngeal paralysis in dogs. The results in these clinical cases are encouraging for considering the laryngeal stent as a therapeutic alternative.

Citation: Ricart MC, et al. Laryngeal stent for acute and chronic respiratory distress in seven dogs with laryngeal paralysis. Laryngeal stent for acute and chronic respiratory distress in seven dogs with laryngeal paralysis. 2020; 10:4-10. doi: 10.4314/ovj.v10i1.2

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32426250/
