PMID: 32437520
Title: Impact of ductal stenting on pulmonary artery reconstruction in patients with duct-dependent congenital heart diseases-an institutional experience.

Abstract: OBJECTIVES: This study aims to review our institutional experience of ductal stenting (DS) on the growth of pulmonary arteries (PAs) and surgical outcomes of PA reconstruction in this subset of patients.
METHODS: This is a retrospective study done in neonates and infants up to 3 months of age with duct-dependent pulmonary circulation who underwent DS from January 2014 to December 2015. Post-stenting PA growth, surgical outcomes of PA reconstruction, post-surgical re-interventions, morbidity and mortality were analysed.
RESULTS: During the study period, 46 patients underwent successful DS, of whom 38 underwent presurgery catheterization and definite surgery. There was significant growth of PAs in these patients. Biventricular repair was done in 31 patients while 7 had univentricular palliation. Left PA augmentation was required in 13 patients, and 10 required central PA augmentation during surgery. The mean follow-up period post-surgery was 4.5 ± 1.5 years. No significant postoperative complications were seen. No early or follow-up post-surgery mortality was seen. Four patients required re-interventions in the form of left PA stenting based on the echocardiography or computed tomography evidence of significant stenosis.
CONCLUSIONS: DS provides good short-term palliation and the growth of PAs. However, a significant number of stented patients require reparative procedure on PAs at the time of surgical intervention. Acquired changes in the PAs following DS may be the reason for reintervention following PA reconstruction.

Citation: Haranal M, et al. Impact of ductal stenting on pulmonary artery reconstruction in patients with duct-dependent congenital heart diseases-an institutional experience. Impact of ductal stenting on pulmonary artery reconstruction in patients with duct-dependent congenital heart diseases-an institutional experience. 2020; 31:221-227. doi: 10.1093/icvts/ivaa069

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32437520/
