PMID: 32434955
Title: [Aplastic or Twig-like Middle Cerebral Artery with Cortical Subarachnoid Hemorrhage and Reversible Cerebral Vasoconstriction Syndrome during the Postpartum Period in a Juvenile Female:A Case Report].

Abstract: A 17-year-old female in a lethargic state with mild dysarthria was transferred to our hospital after experiencing a generalized tonic seizure immediately after giving birth. Head CT showed a cortical subarachnoid hemorrhage(cSAH)in the left frontoparietal convexity. Three-dimensional rotational angiography(3D-RA)revealed multifocal narrowing of the cortical branches of the left middle cerebral artery(MCA)and severe stenosis of the left M1 segment with plexiform collateral networks, suggesting the presence of reversible vasoconstriction syndrome(RCVS)and aplastic or twig-like MCA(Ap/T-MCA). When 3D-RA was repeated on day 17, the narrowing of the cortical artery had resolved, and a new constriction of more proximal blood vessels was observed. The arterial spasm disappeared within 3 months, confirming the diagnosis of RCVS and Ap/T-MCA. Although non-aneurysmal SAH due to Ap/T-MCA is extremely rare, RCVS often complicates cSAH in the frontal/parietal region. It is suggested that RCVS triggers cSAH in the presence of incidental Ap/T-MCA. Ap/T-MCA is thought to be caused by developmental abnormalities during the embryonic period, but only 11 cases in children or adolescents have been reported. This suggests that there are a considerable number of asymptomatic young patients whose condition has not been detected. The majority of patients with Ap/T-MCA are from East Asia, suggesting that racial and genetic background differences are a factor. As this anomaly is more likely to present as a stroke in adulthood, long-term follow-up is recommended if it is found at a young age. There is no evidence that revascularization is effective in preventing stroke. Further studies are needed on how to manage this condition appropriately.

Citation: Matsuo A, et al. [Aplastic or Twig-like Middle Cerebral Artery with Cortical Subarachnoid Hemorrhage and Reversible Cerebral Vasoconstriction Syndrome during the Postpartum Period in a Juvenile Female:A Case Report]. [Aplastic or Twig-like Middle Cerebral Artery with Cortical Subarachnoid Hemorrhage and Reversible Cerebral Vasoconstriction Syndrome during the Postpartum Period in a Juvenile Female:A Case Report]. 2020; 48:435-444. doi: 10.11477/mf.1436204206

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32434955/
