PMID: 32437239
Title: Off-label use of Proglide percutaneous closure device in iatrogenic arterial catheterizations: Our experience.

Abstract: INTRODUCTION: Incidental arterial puncture is one of the main complications associated with central venous catheter placement. Manual compression to achieve hemostasis in subclavian and carotid artery punctures is often ineffective because of the anatomical arterial position. Accidental cannulation has traditionally been treated with open surgery or endovascular treatment, but such procedures are not exempt from complications.
OBJECTIVES: Report our experience with ultrasound-guided off-label use of Perclose ProGlide (Abbott Vascular Inc., Santa Clara, CA, USA) in patients with iatrogenic arterial cannulation.
METHODS: Six unstable patients with accidental arterial catheterization during placement of a central venous catheter: five of them in the subclavian artery and one in the right common carotid artery. Ultrasound-guided percutaneous closure was performed at bedside using a Perclose ProGlide (Abbott Vascular Inc., Santa Clara, CA, USA).
RESULTS: All patients underwent duplex ultrasound 6, 12, 24, and 48 h postprocedure, and no complications associated with percutaneous closure (embolism, ischemia, stenosis, or arterial occlusion, bleeding, pseudoaneurysm, etc.) were described.
CONCLUSIONS: Accidental artery puncture during central venous catheterization is an uncommon situation but can be effectively managed by using percutaneous vascular closure device. It is a reliable alternative that should be considered as a first-line approach before endovascular or open surgery, specially in patients with unstable conditions in which it is possible to be performed without transfer to an operation room.

Citation: Lorenzo JF, et al. Off-label use of Proglide percutaneous closure device in iatrogenic arterial catheterizations: Our experience. Off-label use of Proglide percutaneous closure device in iatrogenic arterial catheterizations: Our experience. 2020; 28:756-759. doi: 10.1177/1708538120925603

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32437239/
