PMID: 32448652
Title: Imaging Diagnosis of Biliary Complications of ABO Incompatibility in Living Donor Liver Transplantation.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: To evaluate the imaging findings of biliary complications in patients with ABO-incompatible (ABOi) living donor liver transplantation (LDLT), with emphasis on ultrasound and magnetic resonance cholangiography results, and to evaluate clinical outcomes METHODS: The hospital's Institutional Review Committee on Human Research approved the study protocol, and all of the participants or their guardians provided written informed consent. We performed a retrospective analysis of 33 patients with ABOi LDLT from December 2009 to April 2018 enrolled in the study. After LDLT, patients were followed up daily during the admission period and every visit to the outpatient clinic following discharge. Magnetic resonance cholangiopancreatography (MRCP) was scheduled if ultrasound imaging results or clinical presentation suggested biliary complications. The types of biliary complications on MRCP were classified into nonanastomosis and anastomotic stenosis. Different interventions were arranged according to clinical conditions.
RESULTS: Of 33 patients enrolled, 4 patients were found to have abnormal ultrasound findings (12%), 10 patients had elevated liver function (30%), and 1 showed both of them (3%). Fifteen patients received MRCP in the study. Nonanastomosis strictures were found in 5 patients who received different treatment according to clinical conditions, and anastomosis strictures were found in 7 patients who received endoscopic retrograde biliary drainage treatment only. The diagnosis accuracy percentages of biliary complications by ultrasound and MRCP were 66% and 100%, respectively.
CONCLUSION: Doppler ultrasound could made a misdiagnosis in biliary complications. Magnetic resonance cholangiography is necessary if we suspect biliary complications. In addition, the differential diagnosis of biliary complications is mandatory for interventional procedures.

Citation: Wang CK, et al. Imaging Diagnosis of Biliary Complications of ABO Incompatibility in Living Donor Liver Transplantation. Imaging Diagnosis of Biliary Complications of ABO Incompatibility in Living Donor Liver Transplantation. 2020; 52:1833-1837. doi: 10.1016/j.transproceed.2020.02.133

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32448652/
