PMID: 32445834
Title: Outcomes and strategy of tailored antiplatelet therapy with ticagrelor in patients undergoing transcarotid artery revascularization.

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: Antiplatelet drug resistance is associated with periprocedural ischemic complications in patients undergoing intravascular stent implantation. Nonresponders are subject to increased risk of stent thrombosis and in-stent stenosis, and high on-treatment platelet reactivity (HTPR) is present in up to 44% of patients taking clopidogrel, a widely used component of dual antiplatelet therapy (DAPT). Evidence points to ticagrelor as a viable alternative to overcome HTPR on clopidogrel. Studies have shown fewer thromboembolic events with ticagrelor therapy; however, results on bleeding risk are mixed, and its safety and efficacy in hybrid operative techniques have yet to be established. Transcarotid artery revascularization (TCAR) is a hybrid procedure to treat severe carotid stenosis. The objective of this study was to establish the safety and efficacy of ticagrelor as part of DAPT in patients undergoing TCAR and to develop a protocol to ensure adequate antithrombotic protection throughout the operative course.
METHODS: Data were collected retrospectively for patients undergoing TCAR on DAPT of aspirin and ticagrelor for symptomatic (≥50%) or asymptomatic (≥80%) carotid stenosis. Preoperative platelet reactivity was determined using Thromboelastography with Platelet Mapping (Haemonetics Corporation, Braintree, Mass), with adequate platelet reactivity defined as maximal amplitude produced by adenosine diphosphate <50 mm. The primary safety end point was 30-day major bleeding event rate. Primary efficacy end points were 30-day incidence of ipsilateral cerebrovascular ischemic event (stroke or transient ischemic attack), myocardial infarction, and death. Secondary end points were postoperative length of hospital stay, procedure time, and clamp/flow reversal time.
RESULTS: Sixty-seven TCAR procedures with patients receiving periprocedural DAPT of ticagrelor and aspirin were performed during the study period. Patients had an average age of 79 years, and 28 (42%) were symptomatic. The mean procedure time was 45.8 ± 9.2 minutes, with a mean clamp/flow reversal time of 4.8 ± 1.5 minutes, and mean postoperative length of hospital stay of 3.1 ± 2.2 days for inpatients and 1.3 ± 0.8 days for outpatients. Technical success was achieved in all cases, with no 30-day major bleeding events and no occurrence of ipsilateral cerebrovascular ischemic event, myocardial infarction, or death.
CONCLUSIONS: Initial experience with ticagrelor as part of DAPT in patients undergoing TCAR demonstrated its safety and efficacy in both symptomatic and asymptomatic disease. No bleeding events or thromboembolic complications occurred. Furthermore, a protocol to administer ticagrelor to assay for HTPR on ticagrelor and consequent medication and patient management is proposed. Ticagrelor may represent a safe and effective alternative to overcome clopidogrel nonresponsiveness in DAPT regimens for TCAR.

Citation: Ghamraoui AK and Ricotta JJ. Outcomes and strategy of tailored antiplatelet therapy with ticagrelor in patients undergoing transcarotid artery revascularization. Outcomes and strategy of tailored antiplatelet therapy with ticagrelor in patients undergoing transcarotid artery revascularization. 2021; 73:132-141. doi: 10.1016/j.jvs.2020.04.518

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32445834/
