PMID: 32442967
Title: Critical role of platelet-derived growth factor-α in angiogenesis after indirect bypass in a murine moyamoya disease model.

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: This study aimed to clarify the underlying mechanism of pathognomonic angiogenesis between the temporal muscle and neocortex after indirect bypass for moyamoya disease by shedding light on the role of platelet-derived growth factor receptor-α (PDGFRα) in angiogenesis.
METHODS: The gene for PDGFRα was systemically inactivated in adult mice (α-KO mice). The Pdgfra-preserving mice (Flox mice) and α-KO mice were exposed to bilateral common carotid artery stenosis (BCAS) by using microcoils. One week later the animals underwent encephalomyosynangiosis (EMS) on the right side. Cerebral blood flow (CBF) was serially measured using a laser Doppler flowmeter. Histological analysis was performed on the distribution of CD31-positive vessels and collagen deposit at 28 days after BCAS. Reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) was performed to assess the expression of collagen mRNA in the skin fibroblasts derived from Flox and α-KO mice.
RESULTS: BCAS significantly reduced CBF up to approximately 70% of the control level at 28 days after the onset. There was no significant difference in CBF between Flox and α-KO mice. EMS significantly enhanced the improvement of CBF on the ipsilateral side of Flox mice, but not α-KO mice. EMS significantly induced the development of CD31-positive vessels in both the neocortex and temporal muscle on the ipsilateral side of Flox mice, but not α-KO mice. Deposition of collagen was distinctly observed between them in Flox mice, but not α-KO mice. Expression of mRNA of collagen type 1 alpha 1 (Col1a1) and collagen type 3 alpha 1 (Col3a1) was significantly downregulated in the skin fibroblasts from α-KO mice.
CONCLUSIONS: This is the first study that denotes the role of a specific growth factor in angiogenesis after EMS for moyamoya disease by inactivating its gene in mice. The findings strongly suggest that PDGFRα signal may play an important role in developing spontaneous angiogenesis between the temporal muscle and neocortex after EMS in moyamoya disease.

Citation: Hayashi T, et al. Critical role of platelet-derived growth factor-α in angiogenesis after indirect bypass in a murine moyamoya disease model. Critical role of platelet-derived growth factor-α in angiogenesis after indirect bypass in a murine moyamoya disease model. 2021; 134:1535-1543. doi: 10.3171/2020.3.JNS193273

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32442967/
