PMID: 32449038
Title: Assessment of apolipoprotein B/apolipoprotein A-I ratio in non-ST segment elevation acute coronary syndrome patients.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: The apolipoprotein B/apolipoprotein A-I ratio was shown to be strongly related to the risk of myocardial infarction in several large-scale studies. The current study aimed at exploring the diagnostic and short-term prognostic values of apolipoprotein B/apolipoprotein A-I ratio in patients presenting with non-ST segment elevation acute coronary syndrome. One hundred patients with non-ST segment elevation acute coronary syndrome were prospectively enrolled, in addition to a matched group of 100 patients with chronic stable angina. Serum levels of total cholesterol, low-density lipoprotein, high-density lipoprotein, triglycerides, and apolipoproteins B and A-I were quantified in both groups. Patients with non-ST segment elevation acute coronary syndrome underwent coronary angiography.
RESULTS: The mean age of the study population was 57 ± 6 years, 65% being males. The non-ST segment elevation acute coronary syndrome group showed significantly unfavorable lipid profile parameters, including apolipoprotein B/apolipoprotein A-I ratio. Higher apolipoprotein B/apolipoprotein A-I ratio was associated with more coronaries showing significant stenosis and more complex lesion morphology. Receiver operating characteristic curve analysis reached an optimal cut-off value of 0.93 for diagnosis of non-ST segment elevation acute coronary syndrome (sensitivity 70% and specificity 88%) and 0.82 for predicting the presence of multi-vessel disease (sensitivity 90% and specificity 97%).
CONCLUSION: Apolipoprotein B/apolipoprotein A-I ratio is a useful tool of risk assessment in patients presenting with non-ST segment elevation acute coronary syndrome including prediction of coronary multivessel affection. Apolipoprotein B/apolipoprotein A-I ratio was shown to be strongly related to risk of myocardial infarction. Higher ratios of apolipoprotein B/apolipoprotein A-I were recorded in NSTE-ACS patients (versus stable angina patients). Higher apolipoprotein B/apolipoprotein A-I ratios were associated with more diseased coronaries and complex lesions. Apolipoprotein B/apolipoprotein A-I ratio is a useful tool for acute risk assessment in cardiac ischemic patients.

Citation: Galal H, et al. Assessment of apolipoprotein B/apolipoprotein A-I ratio in non-ST segment elevation acute coronary syndrome patients. Assessment of apolipoprotein B/apolipoprotein A-I ratio in non-ST segment elevation acute coronary syndrome patients. 2020; 72:27. doi: 10.1186/s43044-020-00057-1

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32449038/
