PMID: 32451616
Title: Classification systems for anterior urethral stricture disease in men: a systematic review.

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: To identify and explore the various classification systems that have been proposed for anterior urethral stricture disease (AUSD) and to identify the advantages and disadvantages of each.
METHODS: A comprehensive systematic review was conducted in MEDLINE, EMBASE, SCOPUS and COCHRANE databases with a search strategy created appropriately. Titles and abstracts of search results were screened by two authors and selected for full-text review. Studies exploring urethral stricture classification, clinical scoring or staging systems used in men over the age of 18 with benign anterior urethral stricture disease were included.
RESULTS: The search identified 3113 articles, of which 10 were selected for inclusion after scrutiny. Four classification systems were identified. These include ULTRA score, urethral stricture score, cystoscopy-based staging system and Gombe Urethrographic score. These were based on various modalities, including cystoscopy, retrograde urethrogram (RUG) and sonourethrogram (SUG). From the scoring systems identified, the urethral stricture scoring system has multiple external validation studies and is predictive of operative complexity, operative time, recurrence and postoperative complications.
CONCLUSIONS: Several classification systems have been proposed for AUSD. Each has its advantages and disadvantages. The urethral stricture score has been externally validated and shown to been predictive of surgical outcomes and recurrence. There are no scores that incorporate patient-related outcome measures (PROMs). Many classification systems have yet to provide sufficient external validation. Further external validation studies are needed before the general adoption of a particular system.

Citation: John A and Kahokehr AA. Classification systems for anterior urethral stricture disease in men: a systematic review. Classification systems for anterior urethral stricture disease in men: a systematic review. 2021; 39:761-769. doi: 10.1007/s00345-020-03250-8

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32451616/
