PMID: 32456802
Title: Segmental Hepatic Steatosis Due to Portal Vein Stricture After Pediatric Living Donor Liver Transplantation: A Case Report.

Abstract: BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVE: Liver transplantation (LT) is the gold-standard treatment for end-stage liver disease; however, late-onset complications such as fatty liver can occur in the absence of metabolic comorbidities. We report a unique case of post-transplant hepatic steatosis developing in only a part of the liver graft.
CASE REPORT: A 1-year-old boy underwent ABO-incompatible living donor liver transplantation (LDLT) with a left lateral liver graft donated from his mother for biliary atresia. The biliary tract was reconstructed by hepaticojejunostomy using the previous Roux-en-Y limb. Liver function tests increased by up to 2-fold of the upper normal limit after the second year. He developed segmental steatosis in a part of the liver graft 2 years after LDLT. Venous blood drained into the area of the liver graft from veins in the Roux-en-Y limb of the jejunum. Pathologic findings from a liver biopsy showed fatty depositions without steatohepatitis, acute rejection, or tumors. Portal vein stricture (PVS) subsequently became apparent, which was complicated by the symptoms of portal hypertension, such as gastrointestinal varices. We treated PVS with 2 sessions of percutaneous transhepatic portal vein angioplasty (PTPA), after which the segmental steatosis disappeared. We hypothesize that PVS caused local hemodynamic anomalies, leading to fatty deposition in a part of the liver graft.
CONCLUSION: We experienced a case of post-LT with segmental steatosis that was successfully treated by portal vein flow modification with PTPA. Steatosis of the graft might indicate a vascular abnormality, and further examinations should be performed after LT.

Citation: Mita A, et al. Segmental Hepatic Steatosis Due to Portal Vein Stricture After Pediatric Living Donor Liver Transplantation: A Case Report. Segmental Hepatic Steatosis Due to Portal Vein Stricture After Pediatric Living Donor Liver Transplantation: A Case Report. 2020; 52:1944-1949. doi: 10.1016/j.transproceed.2020.01.149

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32456802/
