PMID: 32457650
Title: A Comprehensive Engineering Analysis of Left Heart Dynamics After MitraClip in a Functional Mitral Regurgitation Patient.

Abstract: Percutaneous edge-to-edge mitral valve (MV) repair using MitraClip has been recently established as a treatment option for patients with heart failure and functional mitral regurgitation (MR), which significantly expands the number of patients that can be treated with this device. This study aimed to quantify the morphologic, hemodynamic and structural changes, and evaluate the biomechanical interaction between the MitraClip and the left heart (LH) complex of a heart failure patient with functional MR using a fluid-structure interaction (FSI) modeling framework. MitraClip implantation using lateral, central and double clip positions, as well as combined annuloplasty procedures were simulated in a patient-specific LH model that integrates detailed anatomic structures, incorporates age- and gender-matched non-linear elastic material properties, and accounts for mitral chordae tethering. Our results showed that antero-posterior distance, mitral annulus spherecity index, anatomic regurgitant orifice area, and anatomic opening orifice area decreased by up to 28, 39, 52, and 71%, respectively, when compared to the pre-clip model. MitraClip implantation immediately decreased the MR severity and improved the hemodynamic profile, but imposed a non-physiologic configuration and loading on the mitral apparatus, with anterior and posterior leaflet stress significantly increasing up to 210 and 145% during diastole, respectively. For this patient case, while implanting a combined central clip and ring resulted in the highest reduction in the regurgitant volume (46%), this configuration also led to mitral stenosis. Patient-specific computer simulations as used here can be a powerful tool to examine the complex device-host biomechanical interaction, and may be useful to guide device positioning for potential favorable clinical outcomes.

Citation: Caballero A, et al. A Comprehensive Engineering Analysis of Left Heart Dynamics After MitraClip in a Functional Mitral Regurgitation Patient. A Comprehensive Engineering Analysis of Left Heart Dynamics After MitraClip in a Functional Mitral Regurgitation Patient. 2020; 11:432. doi: 10.3389/fphys.2020.00432

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32457650/
