PMID: 32458256
Title: A case of triple digestive tract reconstruction in chronic pancreatitis complicated with bile ductal stenosis, duodenal stenosis, and portal vein stenosis: a case report.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Although endoscopic interventions for chronic pancreatitis are highly developed, surgery for severe complicated cases such as the coexistence of bile duct, duodenum, and portal vein stenosis is a challenging issue for surgeons. In such instances, pancreaticoduodenectomy could lead to massive intraoperative bleeding due to severe collateral veins. A surgical drainage procedure, instead of pancreatic resection, may be a reasonable and safer option in such cases, but the literature on a surgical drainage technique to resolve all obstructions of the pancreatic duct, bile duct, and duodenum at once is limited. We devised a new surgical drainage method for such cases with consideration for a possible future second surgery for newly developed pancreatic cancer because chronic pancreatitis is a well-known high-risk factor for pancreatic cancer in the long term. Here, we report this surgical procedure.
CASE PRESENTATION: A 55-year-old man was diagnosed with alcoholic chronic pancreatitis 15 years ago. Before surgery, he underwent regular endoscopic pancreatic stenting for pancreatic ductal stenosis for 3 years. Three months before surgery, his duodenal stenosis worsened, and he was referred to our department for surgery. Preoperative imaging revealed pancreatic and bile duct stenosis, duodenal stenosis, and portal vein stenosis. To avoid intraoperative bleeding caused by the development of collateral veins, we performed a triple drainage procedure: longitudinal pancreaticojejunostomy with coring-out of the pancreatic head, hepaticojejunostomy, and gastrojejunostomy. The patient did not develop postoperative complications, and he was discharged from the hospital on postoperative day 14. For 5 years after surgery, no abdominal pain or recurrent pancreatitis was observed.
CONCLUSION: Our triple drainage procedure seems effective and minimally invasive for patients complicated with bile duct stenosis, duodenal stenosis, and portal vein stenosis.

Citation: Abe Y, et al. A case of triple digestive tract reconstruction in chronic pancreatitis complicated with bile ductal stenosis, duodenal stenosis, and portal vein stenosis: a case report. A case of triple digestive tract reconstruction in chronic pancreatitis complicated with bile ductal stenosis, duodenal stenosis, and portal vein stenosis: a case report. 2020; 6:116. doi: 10.1186/s40792-020-00872-3

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32458256/
