PMID: 32464521
Title: Elective carotid stenting after urgent best medical treatment suppresses recurrent stroke in patients with symptomatic carotid artery severe stenosis.

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: Urgent carotid endarterectomy and carotid artery stenting (CAS) for symptomatic advanced carotid artery stenosis is controversial because carry risks of hemorrhagic and thromboembolic complications. As treatments for preventing recurrent stroke have recently advanced, this study evaluated whether elective CAS with urgent best medical therapy reduces recurrent stroke for symptomatic severe carotid artery stenosis.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: A total of 131 consecutive patients who underwent CAS for severe stenosis of the carotid artery between 2013-2017 were divided into acute ischemic minor stroke (AIMS) and Asymptomatic groups. The AIMS group comprised 59 patients presenting with minor stroke who underwent elective CAS with oral dual antiplatelet therapy, statin therapy, and add-on oral omega-3 fatty acid ethyl esters from 4 weeks before CAS. The Asymptomatic group comprised 72 patients treated with best medical therapy for 4 weeks before CAS.
RESULTS: No recurrent ischemic stroke was observed under urgent best medical treatment before elective CAS in the AIMS group. Although the frequency of vulnerable plaque and degree of stenosis were much higher in the AIMS group, no significant differences were seen in perioperative complications. Baseline serum eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA) levels and EPA/ arachidonic acid (AA) were significantly lower in the AIMS group (p = 0.04, 0.04, respectively) and serum EPA/AA was significantly increased a day before CAS and 3 months after CAS compared with baseline.
CONCLUSION: Urgent best medical treatment reduces recurrent stroke and facilitates safe elective CAS in patients with symptomatic and severe carotid artery stenosis.

Citation: Nakagawa I, et al. Elective carotid stenting after urgent best medical treatment suppresses recurrent stroke in patients with symptomatic carotid artery severe stenosis. Elective carotid stenting after urgent best medical treatment suppresses recurrent stroke in patients with symptomatic carotid artery severe stenosis. 2020; 195:105855. doi: 10.1016/j.clineuro.2020.105855

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32464521/
