PMID: 32469227
Title: Contribution of selected vasoactive systems to blood pressure regulation in two models of chronic kidney disease.

Abstract: It is generally accepted that angiotensin II plays an important role in high blood pressure (BP) development in both 2-kidney-1-clip (2K1C) Goldblatt hypertension and in partial nephrectomy (NX) model of chronic kidney disease (CKD). The contribution of sympathetic nervous system and nitric oxide to BP control in these models is less clear. Partial nephrectomy or stenosis of the renal artery was performed in adult (10-week-old) male hypertensive heterozygous Ren-2 transgenic rats (TGR) and normotensive control Hannover Sprague Dawley (HanSD) rats and in Wistar rats. One and four weeks after the surgery, basal blood pressure (BP) and acute BP responses to the consecutive blockade of renin-angiotensin (RAS), sympathetic nervous (SNS), and nitric oxide (NO) systems were determined in conscious rats. Both surgical procedures increased plasma urea, a marker of renal damage; the effect being more pronounced following partial nephrectomy in hypertensive TGR than in normotensive HanSD rats with a substantially smaller effect in Wistar rats after renal artery stenosis. We demonstrated that the renin-angiotensin system does not play so fundamental role in blood pressure maintenance during hypertension development in either CKD model. By contrast, a more important role is exerted by the sympathetic nervous system, the activity of which is increased in hypertensive TGR-NX in the developmental phase of hypertension, while in HanSD-NX or Wistar-2K1C it is postponed to the established phase. The contribution of the vasoconstrictor systems (RAS and SNS) was increased following hypertension induction. The role of NO-dependent vasodilation was unchanged in 5/6 NX HanSD and in 2K1C Wistar rats, while it gradually decreased in 5/6 NX TGR rats.

Citation: Drábková N, et al. Contribution of selected vasoactive systems to blood pressure regulation in two models of chronic kidney disease. Contribution of selected vasoactive systems to blood pressure regulation in two models of chronic kidney disease. 2020; 69:405-414. doi: 10.33549/physiolres.934392

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32469227/
