PMID: 32479820
Title: M2 Macrophages and Phenotypic Modulation of Intestinal Smooth Muscle Cells Characterize Inflammatory Stricture Formation in Rats.

Abstract: The progression of Crohn disease to intestinal stricture formation is poorly controlled, and the pathogenesis is unclear, although increased smooth muscle mass is present. A previously described rat model of trinitrobenzenesulfonic acid-induced colitis is re-examined here. Although inflammation of the mid-descending colon typically resolved, a subset showed characteristic stricturing by day 16, with an inflammatory infiltrate in the neuromuscular layers including eosinophils, CD3-positive T cells, and CD68-positive macrophages. Closer study identified CD163-positive, CD206-positive, and arginase-positive cells, indicating a M2 macrophage phenotype. Stricturing involved ongoing proliferation of intestinal smooth muscle cells (ISMC) with expression of platelet-derived growth factor receptor beta and progressive loss of phenotypic markers, and stable expression of hypoxia inducible factor 1 subunit alpha. In parallel, collagen I and III showed a selective and progressive increase over time. A culture model of the stricture phenotype of ISMC showed stable hypoxia inducible factor 1 subunit alpha expression that promoted growth and improved both survival and growth in models of experimental ischemia. This phenotype was hyperproliferative to serum and platelet-derived growth factor BB, and unresponsive to transforming growth factor beta, a prominent cytokine of M2 macrophages, compared with control ISMC. We identified a hyperplastic phenotype of ISMC, uniquely adapted to an ischemic environment to drive smooth muscle layer expansion, which may reveal new targets for treating intestinal fibrosis.

Citation: Lourenssen SR and Blennerhassett MG. M2 Macrophages and Phenotypic Modulation of Intestinal Smooth Muscle Cells Characterize Inflammatory Stricture Formation in Rats. M2 Macrophages and Phenotypic Modulation of Intestinal Smooth Muscle Cells Characterize Inflammatory Stricture Formation in Rats. 2020; 190:1843-1858. doi: 10.1016/j.ajpath.2020.05.015

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32479820/
