PMID: 32481325
Title: The success of opening concurrent chronic total occlusion lesion to improve cardiac function trial in patients with multi-vessel disease (SOS-moral): Study protocol of a prospective multicenter study.

Abstract: AIMS: The purpose of the present trial is to determine whether opening co-existing chronic total occlusions (CTOs) using percutaneous coronary interventions (PCIs) improves cardiac function in patients with multi-vessel disease (MVD). Patients with MVD are defined as having at least one additional major vessel exhibiting no less than 75% stenosis combined with the presence of a CTO artery.
METHODS AND RESULTS: Patients will be prospectively recruited who meet the following criteria:Patients presenting with no necrosis of myocardial tissue in the territory of the CTO will be excluded. Recruited patients will be randomized into 2 groups: those undergoing PCI of only the non-CTO artery (non-CTO PCI group), and those undergoing PCI of the non-CTO artery concurrently with the CTO artery (CTO-PCI group). The primary outcome will be the change in cardiac function evaluated via CMR at a 12-month of follow-up appointment, which will be compared to a baseline measurement. Secondary outcomes include occurrence of major cardiac events, CMR-assessed myocardial viability in the CTO-supplied territory, and quality of life assessed by Seattle angina questionnaire, Patient Health Questionnaire 9 and Generalized Anxiety Disorder Scale-7 after 12-month follow-up.
CONCLUSION: The SOS-moral trial will provide data necessary to determine whether to open concurrent CTOs among MVD patients with CMR-detected necrotic myocardial tissue.

Citation: Tian J, et al. The success of opening concurrent chronic total occlusion lesion to improve cardiac function trial in patients with multi-vessel disease (SOS-moral): Study protocol of a prospective multicenter study. The success of opening concurrent chronic total occlusion lesion to improve cardiac function trial in patients with multi-vessel disease (SOS-moral): Study protocol of a prospective multicenter study. 2020; 99:e20349. doi: 10.1097/MD.0000000000020349

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32481325/
