PMID: 32482446
Title: Bronchoscopic Interventions as a Management of Airway Complications After Lung Transplant Including Assessment of Risk Factors With Special Consideration for Pretransplant Pulmonary Hypertension.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Lung transplant (LTx) is a procedure associated with risk of complications related to airway stenosis that can be treated with bronchoscopic interventions (BIs). The aim of the study was to assess the frequency and risk factors associated with increased need of bronchial interventions in the post-transplant period.
METHODS: The retrospective study reviewed cases of 165 patients (63 women) who underwent LTx from April 2013 to June 2019. For dichotomous discrete variables (occurrence or lack of intervention) multivariate logistic regression analysis was performed to assess the aforementioned risk factors.
RESULTS: BIs were required among 38.55% of lung recipients (n = 65). The number of interventions/patient/y decreases between years 1 and 2 (P < .001), 2 and 3 (P = .013), and 3 and 4 (P < .001); after the fourth year post LTx the differences are not statistically significant. Each 1 mm Hg above 25 mm Hg of mean pulmonary arterial pressure causes statistically significant elevation in the number of interventions by 0.7% in the first year after the procedure. The number of BIs per patient among lung recipients who received a transplant because of idiopathic pulmonary arterial hypertension was statistically significantly higher compared with patients with another underlying lung disease.
CONCLUSIONS: Airway complications developed in the post-transplant period caused a significant number of patients to be in need of BI, especially balloon bronchoplasty. The highest number of interventions occurred within the first year after LTx, and BI decreases over time. Mean pulmonary arterial pressure measured during qualification may have the ability to predict whether the patient would require BI after LTx.

Citation: Nęcki M, et al. Bronchoscopic Interventions as a Management of Airway Complications After Lung Transplant Including Assessment of Risk Factors With Special Consideration for Pretransplant Pulmonary Hypertension. Bronchoscopic Interventions as a Management of Airway Complications After Lung Transplant Including Assessment of Risk Factors With Special Consideration for Pretransplant Pulmonary Hypertension. 2020; 52:2155-2159. doi: 10.1016/j.transproceed.2020.03.045

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32482446/
