PMID: 32497567
Title: Coronary angiography and percutaneous coronary intervention after transcatheter aortic valve replacement with medtronic self-expanding prosthesis: Insights from correlations with computer tomography.

Abstract: OBJECTIVES: We aim to describe the feasibility, challenges, success rates and techniques utilized in coronary angiography (CA) and percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) in patients post transcatheter aortic valve replacement (TAVR).
BACKGROUND: CA and PCI after TAVR are becoming increasingly encountered in clinical practice. There have been technical difficulties reported in re-accessing the coronary arteries through the self-expanding CoreValve prosthesis.
METHODS: From January 2012 to November 2017, 672 patients who underwent TAVR with a self-expanding prosthesis were retrospectively reviewed and those who had a CA and/or PCI post TAVR were analysed. Clinical characteristics, angiographic and procedural details were obtained. A subgroup of patients had computed tomographic angiography (CTA) post TAVR to evaluate positions of the coronary ostia relative to the self-expanding prosthesis. Study endpoint was successful selective engagement of coronary ostia for CA and PCI.
RESULTS: Thirty-two patients (4.8%) had attempted 46 CA and 26 PCI after TAVR with a self-expanding valve. Mean age was 85.2 years and 41% were females. Selective left and right coronary angiography using standard catheters could be achieved in 50% and 28% of cases respectively. Successful PCI was performed in 25 cases (96%); however, significant technique modification was required in 64% of cases. CTA in 9 patients confirmed the difficulty in coronary re-access was due to a combination of the sealing skirt relationship to coronary ostia and sinotubular junction as well as commissural post orientation and significant native leaflet calcification.
CONCLUSIONS: CA and PCI post TAVR with self-expanding CoreValve is technically challenging but feasible with modification of standard techniques.

Citation: Khan M, et al. Coronary angiography and percutaneous coronary intervention after transcatheter aortic valve replacement with medtronic self-expanding prosthesis: Insights from correlations with computer tomography. Coronary angiography and percutaneous coronary intervention after transcatheter aortic valve replacement with medtronic self-expanding prosthesis: Insights from correlations with computer tomography. 2020; 317:18-24. doi: 10.1016/j.ijcard.2020.05.065

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32497567/
