PMID: 32490761
Title: Prevalence of BK Virus in Renal Transplant at a Single Center: Experience With Our Ureteral Reimplantation Surgical Technique.

Abstract: OBJECTIVES: BK polyomavirus is one of the main causes of chronic renal failure and ureteral stenosis in kidney transplant recipients, affecting approximately 15% of kidney transplant patients during the first year after transplant. The immunosuppressive treatment used in these recipients allows a reactivation of the virus by allowing infection, which can manifest from viruria, viremia, or nephropathy. The use of ureteral stents in renal transplant to prevent postoperative complications has been associated with an increase in BK polyomavirus nephropathy. Our objective was to describe associations between viruria and viremia and our reimplantation surgical technique and ureteral stenting.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: We conducted a retrospective review of 184 transplant recipients who were seen at our center between January 2013 and December 2016. To define possible risk factors from analysis of different variables, we categorized patients into 3 groups: patients who did not present with either viremia or viruria caused by BK virus, patients who presented with viremia, and patients who presented with viruria.
RESULTS: We found that 127 transplant recipients (69%) presented with neither BK viruria nor BK viremia, 11 recipients (6%) presented with BK viremia, and 46 recipients (25%) presented with BK viruria. No patient in the study had BK polyomavirus nephropathy.
CONCLUSIONS: Our type of ureteral stenting has a low rate of BK viruria and BK viremia compared with other studies. In addition, with our technique, the ureteral stent removal procedure does not require an invasive endoscopic procedure, thereby avoiding the consequent economic and assistance inconvenience typically associated with an endoscopic procedure.

Citation: Martínez Moreno AI, et al. Prevalence of BK Virus in Renal Transplant at a Single Center: Experience With Our Ureteral Reimplantation Surgical Technique. Prevalence of BK Virus in Renal Transplant at a Single Center: Experience With Our Ureteral Reimplantation Surgical Technique. 2020; 18:458-462. doi: 10.6002/ect.2019.0425

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32490761/
