PMID: 32502625
Title: Anterior Spinal Artery Syndrome: Rare Precedented Reason of Postoperative Plegia After Spinal Deformity Surgery: Report of 2 Cases.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Complications in spinal deformity surgery vary from insignificant to severe. Apart from direct mechanical insult, ischemia can also cause spinal cord injury. Ischemic injury may be detected during surgery or may manifest itself postoperatively. We present 2 cases of anterior spinal artery syndrome.
CASE DESCRIPTION: In the first case, a 12-year-old girl developed anterior spinal artery syndrome resulting in total quadriplegia 8 hours after spinal deformity surgery. She was treated with a steroid, immunoglobulin, and low-molecular-weight heparin. She showed complete recovery at 1 year postoperatively both clinically and radiographically. In the second case, a 62-year-old woman experienced sudden loss of motor evoked potentials intraoperatively during dural tear repair after sagittal and coronal alignment was established. The paraplegic patient was diagnosed with anterior spinal artery syndrome at the thoracic level postoperatively. She was treated with a steroid and heparin. At 1 year postoperatively, she has gained much of her strength and has myelomalacia in her spinal cord.
CONCLUSIONS: Anterior spinal artery syndrome is a serious condition with a generally poor prognosis. Though treatment should be directed at the underlying cause, the best strategy is to prevent it from occurring. Peroperative blood pressure control, intraoperative neuromonitoring, avoidance from mechanical stress during surgery, and close neurologic and hemodynamic monitorization postoperatively should be performed.

Citation: Bahadır S, et al. Anterior Spinal Artery Syndrome: Rare Precedented Reason of Postoperative Plegia After Spinal Deformity Surgery: Report of 2 Cases. Anterior Spinal Artery Syndrome: Rare Precedented Reason of Postoperative Plegia After Spinal Deformity Surgery: Report of 2 Cases. 2020; 141:203-209. doi: 10.1016/j.wneu.2020.05.216

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32502625/
