PMID: 32515553
Title: Cardiogenic shock as the initial manifestation of systemic lupus erythematosus.

Abstract: Cardiogenic shock as the initial manifestation of systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) is an uncommon but catastrophic complication. Because of the lack of typical clinical features, the diagnosis of the disease is challenging. This case report describes a 47-year-old female admitted to the emergency room in refractory cardiogenic shock with dilative cardiomyopathy and a left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) of 25.6% of unknown origin. The patient responded poorly to the initial tries of stabilization, and the clinical status continued to deteriorate. Venous-arterial extracorporeal membrane oxygenation (V-A ECMO) was applied to maintain hemodynamic stability. Coronary angiography revealed no obvious stenosis of the coronary artery. Evidence of virus infection was negative. After requestioning about medical history in detail, Reynaud's phenomenon was shown. SLE was suspected. A complete autoimmune laboratory workup was completed and found the positive result of antinuclear antibodies, anti-double-stranded DNA antibodies, anti-phospholipid antibodies, and low C3 and C4. The patient also presented with pericardial effusion and the PLTs &lt;100 000/mm3 . SLE was confirmed according to the 2019 EULAR/ACR criteria. When the diagnosis was established, the immunotherapy was initiated. As a result, the patient underwent a quick recovery and achieved good outcomes. In conclusion, early diagnosis and timely application of immunotherapy is the key to treatment lupus myocarditis. Advanced mechanical support may play a necessary role when patient is in critical situation. For middle-aged female patients presenting with unexplained cardiogenic shock, lupus myocarditis should be considered in the differential diagnosis. In addition, the 2019 EULAR/ACR criteria provide a new, fitting tool for the diagnosis, which is conducive to the earlier and more accurate diagnosis of SLE.

Citation: Liu L, et al. Cardiogenic shock as the initial manifestation of systemic lupus erythematosus. Cardiogenic shock as the initial manifestation of systemic lupus erythematosus. 2020; 7:1992-1996. doi: 10.1002/ehf2.12806

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32515553/
