PMID: 32527284
Title: Primary repair of transposition of the great arteries with an interrupted aortic arch: a case report and literature review.

Abstract: Transposition of the great arteries (TGA) and interruption of the aortic arch (IAA) are uncommon congenital heart diseases. The association between TGA and IAA is rare. The aim of this study is to present a case with combined TGA and IAA, who underwent the primary repair and review the literature with similar cases. The one-month-old patient was admitted with tachypnea and cyanosis. Delayed diagnosis was caused due to the absence of prenatal examination. Echocardiography and computed tomography angiography confirmed TGA with anterior-posterior-oriented great arteries, wide patent ductus arteriosus, type B IAA, ventricular septal defect (VSD) and pulmonary arterial hypertension. The patient underwent a single-stage primary surgical repair process leading to VSD closure, reconstruction of the aortic arch and arterial switch operation in October 2019. The patient is doing well at a 3-month follow-up post-surgery. The echocardiogram suggests a normal systolic function of the ventricles and trivial regurgitation for both aortic and pulmonary valves. CONCLUSIONS: The single-stage repair with VSD closure, reconstruction of aortic arch and arterial switch operation might be an applicable approach for most of the patients with combined TGA and IAA. Long term follow-up is required as a high re-intervention rate for recurrent coarctation, supravalvular aortic stenosis, neoaortic valve regurgitation, obstruction of the right heart system and coronary stenosis has been reported.

Citation: Xu Q, et al. Primary repair of transposition of the great arteries with an interrupted aortic arch: a case report and literature review. Primary repair of transposition of the great arteries with an interrupted aortic arch: a case report and literature review. 2020; 15:136. doi: 10.1186/s13019-020-01177-0

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32527284/
