PMID: 32521372
Title: Association Between Administration of Antacid Medication and Anastomotic Stricture Formation After Repair of Esophageal Atresia.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Anastomotic stricture is a significant cause of morbidity after repair of esophageal atresia (EA). Exposure to gastric acid has been postulated to contribute to stricture development and severity leading to prophylactic antacid use by some surgeons. We investigated the association between administration of antacid medication and the development of anastomotic strictures.
METHODS: Retrospective case-note review of consecutive infants undergoing repair of EA with distal tracheoesophageal fistula (type C) between January 1994 and December 2014. Only infants who underwent primary esophageal anastomosis at initial surgical procedure were included. Stricture-related outcomes were compared initially for infants who received prophylactic antacid medication (PAAM) versus no prophylaxis, and the role of PAAM in stricture prevention was explored in a multivariate model. Outcomes were also compared for infants grouped by antacid use at any stage.
RESULTS: One hundred fourteen infants were included. Sixteen infants received PAAM at surgeon preference. Of the remaining 98 infants, 44 subsequently received antacid as treatment for gastroesophageal reflux (GER) and 54 never received antacid medication. There was no statistically significant association between incidence of stricture in the first year (10 of 16 versus 41 of 98; P = 0.18) nor time to first stricture (median, 57 d [41-268] versus 102 d [43-320]; P = 0.89) and administration of PAAM. Similarly, there were no statistically significant associations between incidence of stricture, age at first stricture and number of dilatations, and administration of antacid medication either as prophylaxis nor when given as treatment for symptoms or signs of GER.
CONCLUSIONS: These data do not support the hypothesis that PAAM reduces the incidence or severity of anastomotic stricture after repair of EA. Treatment with antacids may be best reserved for those with symptoms or signs of GER. Further prospective investigation of the role of antacid prophylaxis on stricture formation after EA repair is warranted.

Citation: Jones CE, et al. Association Between Administration of Antacid Medication and Anastomotic Stricture Formation After Repair of Esophageal Atresia. Association Between Administration of Antacid Medication and Anastomotic Stricture Formation After Repair of Esophageal Atresia. 2020; 254:334-339. doi: 10.1016/j.jss.2020.05.004

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32521372/
