PMID: 32522566
Title: The expression levels of miRNAs- 27a and 23a in the peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) and their correlation with FOXO1 and some inflammatory and anti-inflammatory cytokines in the patients with coronary artery disease (CAD).

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Atherosclerosis as a progressive inflammatory disease is the main cause of Coronary Artery Disease (CAD). Multiple genetic and environmental factors are involved in susceptibility to atherosclerotic vascular diseases. FOXO1 gene acts as a key molecular proinflammatory transcription factor and the FBOX32 gene as an F-box protein plays pivotal roles in regulation of muscle atrophy and inhibition of the pathologic cardiac hypertrophy. MiR-27a has been reported to contribute to atherosclerosis prevention and the inflammatory processes of atherosclerosis. MicroRNA-23a has been found to promote atherosclerotic plaque progression and vulnerability. Hence, given the importance of these subjects, the present study was carried out to investigate the expression levels of the desired genes.
METHODOLOGY: In this case-control study, 82 patients with CAD and 80 healthy controls were investigated. Expression levels of miRNAs -27a and 23a, FOXO1, Sirtuin 1 (SIRT1) in the Peripheral Blood Mononuclear Cells (PBMCs), serum concentration of IL6 and TNF-α of the studied subjects were evaluated using the real-time Polymerase Chain Reaction (PCR) technique. The correlation between the variables was also investigated.
RESULTS: Results of the study demonstrated that expression of FOXO1, IL-6, TNF-α, miR-27a, and miR-23a increased in the PBMCs of the patients with CAD and their expression levels were significantly correlated with the severity of stenosis. A significant decrease was observed in the expression of SIRT1 in the patients with CAD compared to the healthy controls. Furthermore, the Receiver Operating Characteristic (ROC) curve was plotted to find the effectiveness of FOXO1 and miRNA-27a gene expression as a diagnostic marker for CAD.
CONCLUSIONS: Findings of the study suggested that miRs-27a and FOXO1 genes have a potential role in the progression of atherosclerosis and mediate the molecular and genetic disturbances of the intracellular communication in the atherosclerosis.

Citation: Babaee M, et al. The expression levels of miRNAs- 27a and 23a in the peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) and their correlation with FOXO1 and some inflammatory and anti-inflammatory cytokines in the patients with coronary artery disease (CAD). The expression levels of miRNAs- 27a and 23a in the peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) and their correlation with FOXO1 and some inflammatory and anti-inflammatory cytokines in the patients with coronary artery disease (CAD). 2020; 256:117898. doi: 10.1016/j.lfs.2020.117898

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32522566/
