PMID: 32533778
Title: Endoscopic Z-plasty for Treatment of Supraglottic Stenosis: Experience on Nine Patients.

Abstract: OBJECTIVES: Supraglottic stenosis is a rare type of laryngeal stenosis that is caused by congenital laryngotracheal anomalies, iatrogenic instrumentation injuries, autoimmune disorders, infection, irradiation, chemical or thermal burns, and external blunt or penetrating trauma. The author presents his experience on nine patients using this new endoscopic surgical technique for treatment of supraglottic stenosis.
STUDY DESIGN: Individual retrospective cohort study, tertiary referral center, university hospital.
METHODS: All cases of supraglottic laryngeal stenosis treated during a 10-year period at a tertiary academic medical center were reviewed. Nine patients with supraglottic stenosis treated with endoscopic uni- or bilateral z-plasty technique were determined and presented. The etiology of stenosis was iatrogenic surgical trauma in seven patients, laryngeal fracture in one patient, and systemic lupus erythematosus in the other patient. Main outcome measures were respiratory function test results, absence of dyspnea on exertion, and decannulation if tracheotomy was present preoperatively.
RESULTS: Seven patients with tracheotomy were decannulated 1 month after surgery. All nine patients had adequate airway and were dyspnea-free. Their preop respiratory function test results improved significantly postoperatively (P < .05).
CONCLUSION: For supraglottic stenosis endoscopic surgery using mucosal flaps in the form of z-plasty should be considered within the available surgical techniques. Although this type of surgery is highly successful, it is technically difficult to apply.
LEVEL OF EVIDENCE: 4 Laryngoscope, 131:E534-E539, 2021.

Citation: Yılmaz T. Endoscopic Z-plasty for Treatment of Supraglottic Stenosis: Experience on Nine Patients. Endoscopic Z-plasty for Treatment of Supraglottic Stenosis: Experience on Nine Patients. 2021; 131:E534-E539. doi: 10.1002/lary.28787

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32533778/
