PMID: 32538117
Title: Ileus caused by small bowel, ileocaecal and rectal endometriosis misdiagnosed as Crohn's disease and managed by synchronous ileocaecal and rectal resection.

Abstract: The reported incidence of intestinal endometriosis varies between 22% and 37%, with bowel obstruction in only 2.3% of cases, but few series report acute obstruction. We report a rare case of acute bowel obstruction due to multiple bilateral deep intestinal endometriosis lesions localised in the ileum, ileocaecal valve and upper rectum, requiring synchronous resection in an emergency setting. A 42-year-old woman was referred to our clinic with a diagnosis of obstructing Crohn's disease based on abdominal computed tomography with oral contrast showing a thickened terminal ileum with stenosis, compression of the caecum and proximally dilated small bowel loops. Simultaneous ileocaecal resection and segmental resection of the upper rectum with handsewn end-to-end anastomosis between the sigmoid colon and rectum was performed. Owing to the advanced bowel obstruction and significant weight loss, a double barrelled ileoascendostomy was created. The patient had an uneventful recovery. Histological examination revealed transmural endometriosis with involvement of the pericolic fat in both specimens. Although intestinal endometriosis causing acute bowel obstruction is rare, it should be included among the differential diagnoses in young women with recurrent abdominal pain, intermittent diarrhoea and constipation without a family history for inflammatory bowel disease or cancer. Bleeding synchronous with menstruation is not typical for intestinal endometriosis. Right-sided intestinal endometriosis more frequently causes acute bowel obstruction, in most cases due to intussusception.

Citation: Popivanov G, et al. Ileus caused by small bowel, ileocaecal and rectal endometriosis misdiagnosed as Crohn's disease and managed by synchronous ileocaecal and rectal resection. Ileus caused by small bowel, ileocaecal and rectal endometriosis misdiagnosed as Crohn's disease and managed by synchronous ileocaecal and rectal resection. 2020; 102:e205-e208. doi: 10.1308/rcsann.2020.0118

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32538117/
