PMID: 32536635
Title: Close Association between Subclinical Atherosclerosis and Pulmonary Function in Middle-Aged Male Smokers.

Abstract: AIMS: Cigarette smoking provokes deleterious influences on cardiovascular and pulmonary systems, although the underlying relationship has not been sufficiently investigated especially in early-stage disease. The present study investigated possible associations between subclinical atherosclerosis and pulmonary function in middle-aged male smokers.
METHODS: Male smokers undergoing their periodic health check-up were enrolled in this study (n=3,775, 45±8 years). Pulmonary function was evaluated using spirometry by calculating forced vital capacity (FVC) as a percentage of predicted value (FVC%-predicted), forced expiratory volume in one second (FEV1) as a percentage of predicted value (FEV1%-predicted), and the ratio of FEV1 to FVC (FEV1/FVC). Subclinical atherosclerosis was assessed based on ankle-brachial pressure index (ABI), cardio-ankle vascular index (CAVI), ultrasound examination of the carotid intima-media thickness (IMT), and presence of plaque.
RESULTS: Multivariate regression analysis showed that ABI was positively associated with FVC%-predicted and FEV1%-predicted after adjustment for confounders including smoking intensity, while CAVI or carotid IMT was inversely associated with both. Participants with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD, n=256) showed reduced ABI and increased CAVI or carotid IMT compared with those without COPD, and participants with carotid plaque had lower pulmonary function than those without plaque. Reduced FEV1/FVC was an independent determinant of carotid plaque and decreased ABI was an independent determinant of COPD, as revealed by logistic regression analysis with the endpoint of carotid plaque presence or a diagnosis of COPD revealed.
CONCLUSIONS: Middle-aged male smokers showed a close association between subclinical atherosclerosis and pulmonary function, implying that smoking induced-vascular and pulmonary damage are interacting in early-stage disease.

Citation: Sugiura T, et al. Close Association between Subclinical Atherosclerosis and Pulmonary Function in Middle-Aged Male Smokers. Close Association between Subclinical Atherosclerosis and Pulmonary Function in Middle-Aged Male Smokers. 2020; 27:1230-1242. doi: 10.5551/jat.55996

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32536635/
