PMID: 32545021
Title: Application of CT Imaging in the Diagnosis of Cerebral Hemorrhage and Cerebral Infarction Nerve Damage.

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: This article analyzes computed tomography (CT) angiography and CT perfusion imaging parameters of patients with cerebral hemorrhage and cerebral infarction, and explores its diagnostic value and clinical significance in the diagnosis of cerebral hemorrhage and cerebral infarction.
METHODS: This article selected 52 patients with ischemic cerebrovascular disease who were treated in our neurology department from January 2015 to December 2018. Twenty of these patients had transient ischemic attacks, and 32 had neurologic damage. According to the onset time, patients with cerebral infarction were divided into 12 cases in group A (onset time <6 hours) and 20 cases in group B (onset time >6 hours). CT perfusion imaging was performed within 24 hours after the onset of cerebral hemorrhage. Patients immediately underwent CT perfusion imaging in the cerebral infarction group, and recorded the CT perfusion imaging parameters to analyze the nerve damage.
RESULTS: The results showed that among the 20 patients with cerebral hemorrhage, 14 cases had anterior circulation cerebral hemorrhage, and 6 cases had posterior circulation cerebral hemorrhage. No lesions were found on CT and magnetic resonance imaging. CT angiography of 20 patients with cerebral hemorrhage showed that 18 patients had vascular lesions. In the cerebral infarction group, 30 cases developed vascular disease.
CONCLUSIONS: Studies have confirmed that changes in brain CT perfusion imaging parameters can reflect changes in brain blood perfusion to diagnose nerve damage, and mean transit time and time to peak are the most sensitive during the diagnosis. CT angiography can detect the degree of stenosis and has important clinical value for the etiology of cerebral hemorrhage and cerebral infarction.

Citation: Xin Y, et al. Application of CT Imaging in the Diagnosis of Cerebral Hemorrhage and Cerebral Infarction Nerve Damage. Application of CT Imaging in the Diagnosis of Cerebral Hemorrhage and Cerebral Infarction Nerve Damage. 2020; 138:714-722. doi: 10.1016/j.wneu.2020.02.007

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32545021/
