PMID: 32542687
Title: Utility of Transnasal Humidified Rapid Insufflation Ventilatory Exchange for Microlaryngeal Surgery.

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: Microlaryngeal surgery typically requires oxygenation and ventilation via either an endotracheal tube (ETT), jet ventilation (JV), or intermittent apnea with an ETT. Transnasal Humidified Rapid Insufflation Ventilatory Exchange (THRIVE) delivered by high flow nasal cannula has been reported as an alternative technique. This method of apneic oxygenation and ventilation allows for stable, unobstructed visualization of immobile laryngeal structures. We aim to describe the technique and characterize intraoperative parameters related to its safety.
STUDY DESIGN: Case Series.
METHODS: The electronic medical record was reviewed for patients who underwent microlaryngoscopy using THRIVE technique. Patient demographics, procedural details, operative parameters, and anesthesia records were reviewed. Descriptive statistics were reported.
RESULTS: A total of 53 patients underwent microlaryngoscopy using THRIVE as the sole method of ventilation, with 62% female. Median age was 51 years, and median BMI was 25 kg/m2 . Most patients were ASA class 2, and most had a Mallampati score of 2. The most common surgical indications were subglottic stenosis, vocal fold lesions, and vocal fold paralysis. Median apnea time was 16 minutes. At the end of case, median end tidal CO<sub>2</sub> was 50 mmHg, and median minimum SpO<sub>2</sub> was 95. Six cases required supplementation of THRIVE with JV or tracheal intubation for sustained oxygen desaturation. There was an increase in end tidal CO<sub>2</sub> of 0.844 mmHg/min of apneic time.
CONCLUSIONS: THRIVE is a safe and effective technique for oxygenation and ventilation in microlaryngeal, non-laser surgery in appropriately selected patients. To ensure safety, back-up plans such as jet ventilation and microlaryngeal ETT should be available.
LEVEL OF EVIDENCE: 4 Laryngoscope, 131:587-591, 2021.

Citation: Benninger MS, et al. Utility of Transnasal Humidified Rapid Insufflation Ventilatory Exchange for Microlaryngeal Surgery. Utility of Transnasal Humidified Rapid Insufflation Ventilatory Exchange for Microlaryngeal Surgery. 2021; 131:587-591. doi: 10.1002/lary.28776

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32542687/
