PMID: 32557436
Title: Full-Thickness Skin Grafts and Quilting Sutures for the Reconstruction of Internal Nasal Lining.

Abstract: Restoration of the inner nasal lining is an essential factor in successful nasal reconstruction. Among various methods, free full-thickness skin grafting represents a readily available and feasible technique. A prerequisite for success is a secure and immobile fixation to the undersurface of the nourishing forehead flap. This retrospective study aims to evaluate the results of multiple quilting sutures to secure free full-thickness skin grafts for the reconstruction of the inner nasal lining in partial and extended nasal reconstruction. Between February 1, 2015, and December 31 2018, 16 patients underwent three-stage nasal reconstruction of all three layers using a forehead flap. All full-thickness free flaps were harvested from either the neck or inguinal area and fixated to the undersurface of the distal part of the forehead flap by multiple quilting sutures. All but one free skin grafts healed well (seven ♀; mean: 63 years; range: 52-81). Four patients developed minor complications that resolved completely through conservative treatment. One patient with a history of stroke, extensive nicotine abuse, and arterial hypertension developed flap necrosis that required two surgical revisions and ended up with a stenosis of the left nostril. The follow-up time averaged 18.4 months (range: 3-55 months). Multiple quilting sutures are an effective and feasible option to fixate full-thickness free skin grafts on the undersurface of the forehead flap for the reconstruction of the inner nasal lining. They are not associated with increased risks for necrosis and can be applied even to extended full-thickness nasal defects in selected cases.

Citation: Gostian PDMA, et al. Full-Thickness Skin Grafts and Quilting Sutures for the Reconstruction of Internal Nasal Lining. Full-Thickness Skin Grafts and Quilting Sutures for the Reconstruction of Internal Nasal Lining. 2020; 36:297-304. doi: 10.1055/s-0040-1713116

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32557436/
