PMID: 32567527
Title: Validation of the effectiveness of a modified Studer orthotopic neobladder in a single center after 3 years of its application.

Abstract: INTRODUCTION AND OBJECTIVE: In this study, we reported the 2 years outcomes of orthotopic neobladder diversion according to the Studer modified technique described by Bianchi G. et al. This technique improves the stability of the reservoir and the urine-storage capacity. After radical cystectomy, urinary diversion is created with a spheroidal-shaped reservoir with a conic distal-part, obtained with 40 cm detubulized ileal segment, and a 15 cm of tubular afferent limb, where a Wallace ureteral anastomoses is made. The conic distal part of the neobladder that is anastomized to the urethral stump. After the reconstructive part, the neobladder and the afferent limb are attached to the elevator ani and psoas muscles, respectively.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: In all, 18 patients underwent radical cystectomy with the reconstruction of urinary diversion with the Modified-Studer Orthotopic technique, at S. Giuseppe Hospital. We studied the post-operative years of follow-up, especially with anamnesis of lower urinary tract, axial computerized tomography, and blood tests, according to the EAU guidelines.
RESULTS: We discover with TC 2 cases of low-grade bilateral hydronephrosis, associated with a slight increase in creatinine levels (1.4-1.8 mg/dL). No stricture at the neobladder-urethral anastomosis was detected. Three patients complain daytime urinary incontinence; only two patients report nocturnal urinary incontinence. One patient underwent ureteroscopy for lithiasis and 1 patient died for non-onco-urological disease.
CONCLUSION: The modifications we applied to the Studer-Neobladder seems to improve urinary tract restoration, potentially decreasing long-term complications like hydronephrosis connected to ureteral anastomotic stenosis (11.1% vs 16.9% reported in literature) and urinary retention (0% vs 12% reported in literature). However, we discovered the same risk of diurnal and nocturnal incontinence reported in literature for the classic Studer Neobladder.

Citation: Maltagliati M, et al. Validation of the effectiveness of a modified Studer orthotopic neobladder in a single center after 3 years of its application. Validation of the effectiveness of a modified Studer orthotopic neobladder in a single center after 3 years of its application. 2020; 87:167-169. doi: 10.1177/0391560320930115

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32567527/
