PMID: 32561030
Title: Pediatric Surgery Simulation-Based Training for the General Surgery Resident.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Surgical simulation-based training (SBT) can increase resident confidence and improve performance. SBT in pediatric surgery is in its infancy and often geared toward training pediatric surgery fellows. Since case volume for various pediatric surgery-specific procedures can be low based on the rarity of the pathology involved and the level of care provided by the institution, our aim was to create a pediatric surgery simulation-based curriculum for general surgery residents to address this need.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: We performed an institutional needs assessment consisting of 4 pediatric surgeons' and 28 general surgery residents' confidence in resident ability to independently perform pediatric surgery-specific tasks and procedures using a Likert-scaled survey. These included the placement of a silastic silo for gastroschisis, a percutaneous drain for perforated necrotizing enterocolitis, and completion of a laparoscopic pyloromyotomy for pyloric stenosis. Models simulating these pathologies and curriculum for performing each procedure were generated.
RESULTS: We successfully created a model and SBT curriculum to teach general surgery residents how to place a silastic silo for patients with gastroschisis, a percutaneous drain for patients with perforated necrotizing enterocolitis, and how to complete a laparoscopic pyloromyotomy for patients with pyloric stenosis. These were deemed high fidelity models based on a survey of our pediatric surgeons.
CONCLUSIONS: We created a pediatric surgery SBT curriculum for general surgery residents, which can be used to supplement learning of various high-acuity, low-occurrence procedures. Assessment of residents and validation of scores is underway.

Citation: Skertich NJ, et al. Pediatric Surgery Simulation-Based Training for the General Surgery Resident. Pediatric Surgery Simulation-Based Training for the General Surgery Resident. 2021; 258:339-344. doi: 10.1016/j.jss.2020.05.038

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32561030/
