PMID: 32569238
Title: Pediatric radiation enteritis with intestinal failure: A case report and literature review.

Abstract: RATIONALE: Chronic radiation enteritis, a disease secondary to radiation exposure, has been widely reported in adults. However, few studies have described chronic radiation enteritis in children. Early diagnosis is essential, and nutrition management plays an important role in pediatric chronic radiation enteritis management.
PATIENT CONCERNS: A Chinese 3-year-10-month-old boy was admitted with vomiting, weight loss (1-2 kg) after radiotherapy for a neuroblastoma.
DIAGNOSES: The patient was diagnosed as neuroblastoma (primary site: left adrenal grand; site of metastasis: multiple bone metastasis, bone marrow invasion, intraperitoneal lymph node metastasis) in 2015. Five months after radiotherapy, he showed vomiting and weight loss with stricture in intestine and thickening intestinal wall in imaging finding. His daily intake was not sufficient and extra supplements were needed by intravenous infusion. He had a weight-for-age z score of -5.04, a weight-for-height z score of -6.19, a height-for-age z score of -2.22, and a body mass index-for-age z score of -5.87. The highest level of alanine aminotransferase was 1433 U/L. Those findings established a diagnosis of chronic radiation enteritis with intestinal failure, intestinal stenosis, severe malnutrition, and hepatic dysfunction.
INTERVENTIONS: This patient was treated by parenteral nutrition with minimal enteral feeding. Other treatments were aiming at complications during hospitalization.
OUTCOMES: The patient weaned off parenteral nutrition finally with nutrition status and quality of life improved. There were no signs of tumor recurrence during the 4-year follow-up.
LESSONS: Pediatric radiation enteritis is rare. Our study highlights the characteristics of pediatric chronic radiation enteritis. Nutrition therapy is an important part of the whole therapy strategy in pediatric chronic radiation enteritis.

Citation: Xu L, et al. Pediatric radiation enteritis with intestinal failure: A case report and literature review. Pediatric radiation enteritis with intestinal failure: A case report and literature review. 2020; 99:e20905. doi: 10.1097/MD.0000000000020905

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32569238/
