PMID: 32571360
Title: Fetal aortic valvuloplasty: first report of two cases from Saudi Arabia.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Fetal aortic stenosis may progress to hypoplastic left heart syndrome (HLHS), which carries a poor prognosis. We report two infants with fetal aortic stenosis successfully treated with fetal aortic valvuloplasty (FAV) using balloon dilatation.
CASE PRESENTATION: Of five fetuses with aortic stenosis fulfilling the FAV criteria of severe aortic stenosis with a left ventricular length Z-score of ≥ - 2, retrograde flow in the transverse aortic arch, left-to-right flow across the foramen ovale, monophasic mitral inflow, and significant left ventricular dysfunction, we obtained permission for FAV in two fetuses. FAV was performed successfully under echocardiographic guidance using balloon dilatation. Both fetuses survived to birth. During FAV, mild pericardial effusion developed when introducing the stylet needle in the second fetus, and this resolved within 48 h. No intraprocedural complications occurred in the first patient, and no maternal complications occurred. The first infant underwent the Ross procedure after birth and is currently 7 years old and doing well. The second patient underwent aortic and mitral valve repair with endocardial fibroelastosis resection approximately 2 weeks after birth, which temporarily addressed the mitral valve stenosis; high doses of inotropes were subsequently required. The infant died of sepsis at 2 months of age.
CONCLUSION: FAV using balloon dilatation to treat fetal aortic stenosis was successful in our two patients, with subsequent neonatal biventricular repair resulting in long-term survival in one patient and death secondary to sepsis in the second patient.

Citation: Atiyah M, et al. Fetal aortic valvuloplasty: first report of two cases from Saudi Arabia. Fetal aortic valvuloplasty: first report of two cases from Saudi Arabia. 2020; 15:150. doi: 10.1186/s13019-020-01195-y

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32571360/
