PMID: 32572872
Title: [Diagnostic quality of transluminal biopsy in undetermined biliary duct stenosis by primary PTCD with "cross and push" technique - a prospective monocentric pilot study].

Abstract: BACKGROUND:  Histological characterisation of a biliary duct stenosis can be essential for further therapeutic steps. Access to the stenosis is not given in every patient by endoscopic retrograde cholangiography. In these cases, a percutaneous transhepatic cholangiodrainage (PTCD) may be helpful. The optimal preparation and diagnostic precision of taking a biopsy by PTCD is not sufficiently evaluated.
METHODS:  After a training phase of 10 patients, PTCDs in 30 patients with a biliary duct stenosis and lack of adequate drainage by ERC were done in a time range of 24 months. The stenosis was passed with a wire and then a directed forceps-biopsy was performed in a "cross and push" technique (Transluminal Biliary Biopsy Forceps Set, Cook Medical™), using a wire-guided introducer (7 Fr. inner diameter). The result of the histological survey was then correlated with the definite diagnosis. The follow-up time was 18 months.
RESULT:  Out of 30 patients, there were 22 (73 %) with a malignant stenosis (10 biliary duct neoplasms, 12 non-biliary carcinoma/metastases/lymphomas). Eight (27 %) out of 30 patients had a benign stenosis. In case of all 30 patients, there was enough tissue gained by biopsy for histologic survey. Sub-group analysis was performed for biliary duct cancer and non-biliary cancer. Thereby, 8 out of 10 patients with biliary duct neoplasms were also classified as malignant by histology (sensitivity 80 %); whereas, only 8 out of 12 non-biliary cancers could be histologically classified as malignant (sensitivity 66.6 %, difference not significant, p = 0.0577). In all patients with benign stenosis, histological evaluation of biopsies revealed benign histology (specificity 100 %). There were no intervention-related complications.
CONCLUSION:  This prospective cohort-study shows a high diagnostic precision for the percutaneous transductal biopsy-set to evaluate an undetermined biliary duct stenosis-particularly in biliary processes. Because it can be difficult to gain histology in malignant biliary duct processes using different methods, the "cross and push" biopsy completes the spectrum of diagnostic procedures.

Citation: Lutz HH, et al. [Diagnostic quality of transluminal biopsy in undetermined biliary duct stenosis by primary PTCD with "cross and push" technique - a prospective monocentric pilot study]. [Diagnostic quality of transluminal biopsy in undetermined biliary duct stenosis by primary PTCD with "cross and push" technique - a prospective monocentric pilot study]. 2020; 58:939-944. doi: 10.1055/a-1190-5468

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32572872/
