PMID: 32581151
Title: Differences in Intravascular Ultrasound Measurement Values Between Treatment Modalities for Restenosis in Femoropopliteal Lesions.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: The risk of restenosis after intervention is higher in femoropopliteal than in aortoiliac lesions. However, the appropriate endovascular therapy (EVT) for preventing restenosis after intervention for femoropopliteal lesions remains unknown. This study aimed to elucidate the relationship between lesion characteristics and patency after EVT using intravascular ultrasound (IVUS) measurement and to determine the predictors of restenosis on IVUS.
METHODS AND RESULTS: This prospective observational study was performed at 18 Japanese centers. We evaluated the lesion characteristics before and after EVT for femoropopliteal lesion using IVUS. Angiographic or duplex ultrasound follow-up was performed at 1 year after EVT. A total of 263 lesions underwent EVT between December 2016 and December 2017. In total, 20 lesions (8 cases of isolated common femoral artery lesion and 12 cases of restenosis lesion) were excluded, and 243 lesions were enrolled in this study. A total of 181 lesions were treated with stent placement, and 62 lesions were treated only with balloon angioplasty. In the case of stent use, a larger distal plaque burden was associated with restenosis, while a lower calcification angle was associated with higher patency in the case of balloon angioplasty alone.
CONCLUSIONS: The factors related to patency differed depending on the treating modality. The findings suggest that IVUS is a useful tool for predicting patency because it can provide a more accurate evaluation after EVT for femoropopliteal lesions.

Citation: Aihara H, et al. Differences in Intravascular Ultrasound Measurement Values Between Treatment Modalities for Restenosis in Femoropopliteal Lesions. Differences in Intravascular Ultrasound Measurement Values Between Treatment Modalities for Restenosis in Femoropopliteal Lesions. 2020; 84:1320-1329. doi: 10.1253/circj.CJ-20-0218

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32581151/
