PMID: 32585329
Title: Cardiovascular Risk Factors in Patients With Congenital Heart Disease.

Abstract: Survival of infants born with congenital heart disease (CHD) is improving tremendously and although most of them have mild lesions, others might be considered as only being palliated and undergo many medical or surgical interventions. Patients with CHD will be exposed to the same problematic of the modern lifestyle such as increased prevalence of obesity, decreased physical activities, and exposure to smoking, which leads to acquired cardiovascular disease. We specifically investigated specific cardiovascular risk factors such as: malnutrition, smoking exposure, hypertension, integrity of the coronary and systemic arteries, thromboembolism, ventricular dysfunction, inflammation, and arrhythmias. Patients with CHD are often submitted to extremes of nutrition: as infants, they often do not meet their metabolic requirements, and as they grow older, they tend to exceed them, as seen in the general population. Some heart lesions are more prone to systemic hypertension throughout life, such as coarctation of the aorta, but surprisingly other lesions are also prone to hypertension such as Ebstein anomaly, pulmonary valve stenosis, or regurgitation. Early coronary artery atherosclerosis is also a concern in these patients. Lesions typically at risk are localized in zones of increased turbulence or high pressure or having had previous surgical manipulations. Thromboembolism is also frequent and mostly associated with arrhythmias, heart failure, multiple catheterizations, and specific surgical repairs. Finally, the complexity of heart lesions or abnormal hemodynamics lead to inflammation, heart failure, or arrhythmias. These complex interactions of risk factors ultimately lead to a decreased life expectancy.

Citation: Bigras JL. Cardiovascular Risk Factors in Patients With Congenital Heart Disease. Cardiovascular Risk Factors in Patients With Congenital Heart Disease. 2020; 36:1458-1466. doi: 10.1016/j.cjca.2020.06.013

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32585329/
