PMID: 32586224
Title: Multiphasic Computed Tomography Angiography Findings for Identifying Pseudo-Occlusion of the Internal Carotid Artery.

Abstract: BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: Differentiation between pseudo-occlusion and true occlusion of internal carotid artery (ICA) is important in treatment planning for acute ischemic stroke patients. We compared the findings of multiphasic computed tomography angiography between cervical ICA pseudo-occlusion and true occlusion at the cervical ICA in patients with anterior circulation acute ischemic stroke to determine their diagnostic value.
METHODS: Thirty patients with nonvisualization of the proximal ICA were included. Diagnosis of pseudo- or true occlusion of the ICA was made based on digital subtraction angiography. Diagnostic performances of multiphasic computed tomography angiography findings-(1) a flame-shaped stump and (2) delayed contrast filling at the cervical ICA- were evaluated and compared. The Fisher exact test, χ2 test, or Wilcoxon rank-sum test and McNemar test were used in the data analysis.
RESULTS: Twelve patients had true proximal ICA occlusion and 18 had pseudo-occlusion. Delayed contrast filling at the cervical ICA on multiphasic computed tomography angiography was found in all patients with pseudo-occlusion of the ICA, while 1 case of true occlusion showed delayed contrast filling (P&lt;0.001). The presence of a flame-shaped stump was not significantly different between the pseudo- and true occlusion groups. The sensitivity of delayed contrast filling (0.94 [95% CI, 0.73-1]) was significantly higher than that of flame-shaped stump (0.75 [95% CI, 0.36-0.83]).
CONCLUSIONS: We demonstrated that the delayed filling sign on multiphasic computed tomography angiography could be a useful and readily available finding for differentiating proximal ICA pseudo-occlusion from true occlusion.

Citation: Choi JH, et al. Multiphasic Computed Tomography Angiography Findings for Identifying Pseudo-Occlusion of the Internal Carotid Artery. Multiphasic Computed Tomography Angiography Findings for Identifying Pseudo-Occlusion of the Internal Carotid Artery. 2020; 51:2558-2562. doi: 10.1161/STROKEAHA.120.029512

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32586224/
