PMID: 32594274
Title: Magnetic resonance markers of bilateral neuronal metabolic dysfunction in patients with unilateral internal carotid artery occlusion.

Abstract: OBJECTIVES: To evaluate cerebral hemodynamic, metabolic and anatomic changes occurring in patients with unilateral occlusion of the internal carotid artery (ICA).
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Twenty-two patients with unilateral occlusion of ICA and twenty age and sex matched healthy subjects were included in the study. Single voxel proton magnetic resonance spectroscopy (1H-MRS) of the centrum semiovale, semi-automated hippocampal volumetry in T1-weighted scans and transcranial Doppler examination (TCD) with calculation of Breath Holding Index (BHI) were performed in both groups. Metabolic, anatomic, and hemodynamic features were compared between the two groups.
RESULTS: The N-acetylaspartate (NAA)/choline (Cho) ratio was significantly lower in both hemispheres of enrolled patients compared to controls (p = 0.005 for the side with occlusion, p = 0.04 for the side without occlusion). The hippocampus volume was significantly reduced bilaterally in patients compared to healthy subjects (p = 0.049). A statistically significant difference in BHI values was observed between the side with occlusion and without occlusion (p = 0.037) of the patients, as well as between BHI values of the side with occlusion and healthy volunteers (p = 0.014).
DISCUSSION: Patients with unilateral ICA occlusion have reduced NAA/Cho ratio in the white matter of both hemispheres and have bilateral atrophy of hippocampus. The alteration of hemodynamics alone cannot explain these changes.

Citation: Malucelli A, et al. Magnetic resonance markers of bilateral neuronal metabolic dysfunction in patients with unilateral internal carotid artery occlusion. Magnetic resonance markers of bilateral neuronal metabolic dysfunction in patients with unilateral internal carotid artery occlusion. 2021; 34:141-151. doi: 10.1007/s10334-020-00864-2

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32594274/
