PMID: 32590805
Title: Can a relatively large spinal cord for the dural sac influence severity of paralysis in elderly patients with cervical spinal cord injury caused by minor trauma?

Abstract: Retrospective reviewThe degree of spinal cord compression and bony spinal canal stenosis are risk factors for the occurrence of spinal cord injury (SCI) without major fracture or dislocation, but they do not affect the severity of neurological symptoms. However, whether a relatively large spinal cord for the dural sac influences the severity of symptoms in SCI cases is unknown.The purpose of this study was to verify the influence of spinal cord size relative to dural sac on the severity of paralysis in elderly patients with cervical SCI caused by minor trauma.Subjects were 50 elderly patients with SCI caused by falls on flat ground. At 72 hours after injury, neurological assessment was performed using the Japanese Orthopaedic Association (JOA) scoring system. Bony canal anteroposterior diameters (APD) at mid C5 vertebral body were measured with computed tomography. We measured dural sac and spinal cord APD at the injured level and mid C5 with magnetic resonance imaging. Spinal cord compression ratio was calculated by dividing spinal cord at the injured level by spinal cord at mid C5. As the evaluation of spinal cord size relative to the dural sac, spinal cord/dural sac ratio was calculated at the injured level and mid C5. To clarify the factors influencing the severity of paralysis, the relationships between JOA score and those parameters were examined statistically.A significant negative correlation was observed between JOA score and spinal cord/dural sac ratio at mid C5. No clear relationship was observed between JOA score and bony canal APD or spinal cord compression ratio.In elderly patients with SCI caused by minor trauma, a relatively large spinal cord for the dural sac was shown to be a factor that influences the severity of paralysis. This result can be useful for the treatment and prevention of SCI in the elderly.

Citation: Koike H, et al. Can a relatively large spinal cord for the dural sac influence severity of paralysis in elderly patients with cervical spinal cord injury caused by minor trauma?. Can a relatively large spinal cord for the dural sac influence severity of paralysis in elderly patients with cervical spinal cord injury caused by minor trauma?. 2020; 99:e20929. doi: 10.1097/MD.0000000000020929

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32590805/
