PMID: 32606579
Title: Evaluation of Peripapillary and Subfoveal Choroid Thickness in Asymptomatic Carotid Artery Stenosis.

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: In this study, it aims to investigate the effect of asymptomatic carotid artery stenosis on peripapillary and subfoveal choroid thickness using enhanced depth imaging optical coherence tomography.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: While investigating for coronary artery disease, 76 patients with asymptomatic carotid artery stenosis and 35 patients with normal carotid artery (total = 111) were evaluated. Patients according to the degree of stenosis were divided into four categories as non-stenosis (n = 35), mild (n = 26), moderate (n = 27) and severe stenosis (n = 23). Subfoveal and peripapillary choroid thickness, ocular perfusion and intraocular pressures of all patients were measured using a Fourier-domain optical coherence tomography after general ophthalmological examination. In addition, hypertension, hyperlipidemia, and whether there is a relationship between smoking status and choroid thickness was compared.
RESULTS: As the degree of carotid artery stenosis increased, subfoveal and peripapillary choroidal thickness decreased significantly. However, no changes were detected in ocular perfusion and intraocular pressure values (p=0.935, p=0.519). Decrease in peripapillary and subfoveal choroid thickness values was found to be particularly between the group with severe stenosis and the group with control and mild stenosis (p = 0.003, p = 0.001). In addition, as the degree of carotid stenosis increased in patients with hypertension and smoking, peripapillary choroid thickness was found to be thinner (p=0.003).
CONCLUSION: We believe that the possibility of carotid artery stenosis should be considered in cases with decreased choroid thickness. In addition, we think that even if it is asymptomatic, in cases with severe carotid stenosis, in the presence of choroidal thinning, a chance of surgical intervention should be given to the stenosis.

Citation: Turan-Vural E and Vural U. Evaluation of Peripapillary and Subfoveal Choroid Thickness in Asymptomatic Carotid Artery Stenosis. Evaluation of Peripapillary and Subfoveal Choroid Thickness in Asymptomatic Carotid Artery Stenosis. 2020; 14:1641-1650. doi: 10.2147/OPTH.S237403

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32606579/
