PMID: 32616428
Title: 3-D Intravascular Characterization of Blood Flow Velocity Fields with a Forward-Viewing 2-D Array.

Abstract: Risk stratification in coronary artery disease is an ongoing challenge for which few tools are available for quantifying physiology within coronary arteries. Recently, anatomy-driven computational fluid dynamic modeling has enabled the mapping of local flow dynamics in coronary stenoses, with derived parameters such as WSS exhibiting a strong capability for predicting adverse clinical events on a patient-specific basis. As cardiac catheterization is common in patients with coronary artery disease, minimally invasive technologies capable of identifying pathologic flow in situ in real time could have a significant impact on clinical decision- making. As a step toward in vivo quantification of slow flow near the arterial wall, proof-of-concept for 3-D intravascular imaging of blood flow dynamics is provided using a 118-element forward-viewing ring array transducer and a research ultrasound system. Blood flow velocity components are estimated in the direction of primary flow using an unfocused wave Doppler approach, and in the lateral and elevation directions, using a transverse oscillation approach. This intravascular 3-D vector velocity system is illustrated by acquiring real-time 3-D data sets in phantom experiments and in vivo in the femoral artery of a pig. The effect of the catheter on blood flow dynamics is also experimentally assessed in flow phantoms with both straight and stenotic vessels. Results indicate that 3-D flow dynamics can be measured using a small form factor device and that a hollow catheter design may provide minimal disturbance to flow measurements in a stenosis (peak velocity: 54.97 ± 2.13 cm/s without catheter vs. 51.37 ± 1.08 cm/s with hollow catheter, 6.5% error). In the future, such technologies could enable estimation of 3-D flow dynamics near the wall in patients already undergoing catheterization.

Citation: Lindsey BD, et al. 3-D Intravascular Characterization of Blood Flow Velocity Fields with a Forward-Viewing 2-D Array. 3-D Intravascular Characterization of Blood Flow Velocity Fields with a Forward-Viewing 2-D Array. 2020; 46:2560-2571. doi: 10.1016/j.ultrasmedbio.2020.05.022

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32616428/
