PMID: 32617116
Title: Construction and Comprehensive Analysis of Dysregulated Long Noncoding RNA-Associated Competing Endogenous RNA Network in Moyamoya Disease.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Moyamoya disease (MMD) is a rare cerebrovascular disease characterized by chronic progressive stenosis or occlusion of the bilateral internal carotid artery (ICA), the anterior cerebral artery (ACA), and the middle cerebral artery (MCA). MMD is secondary to the formation of an abnormal vascular network at the base of the skull. However, the etiology and pathogenesis of MMD remain poorly understood.
METHODS: A competing endogenous RNA (ceRNA) network was constructed by analyzing sample-matched messenger RNA (mRNA), long non-coding RNA (lncRNA), and microRNA (miRNA) expression profiles from MMD patients and control samples. Then, a protein-protein interaction (PPI) network was constructed to identify crucial genes associated with MMD. Gene Ontology (GO) and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes pathway (KEGG) enrichment analyses were employed with the DAVID database to investigate the underlying functions of differentially expressed mRNAs (DEmRNAs) involved in the ceRNA network. CMap was used to identify potential small drug molecules.
RESULTS: A total of 94 miRNAs, 3649 lncRNAs, and 2294 mRNAs were differentially expressed between MMD patients and control samples. A synergistic ceRNA lncRNA-miRNA-mRNA regulatory network was constructed. Core regulatory miRNAs (miR-107 and miR-423-5p) and key mRNAs (STAT5B, FOSL2, CEBPB, and CXCL16) involved in the ceRNA network were identified. GO and KEGG analyses indicated that the DEmRNAs were involved in the regulation of the immune system and inflammation in MMD. Finally, two potential small molecule drugs, CAY-10415 and indirubin, were identified by CMap as candidate drugs for treating MMD.
CONCLUSIONS: The present study used bioinformatics analysis of candidate RNAs to identify a series of clearly altered miRNAs, lncRNAs, and mRNAs involved in MMD. Furthermore, a ceRNA lncRNA-miRNA-mRNA regulatory network was constructed, which provides insights into the novel molecular pathogenesis of MMD, thus giving promising clues for clinical therapy.

Citation: Gu X, et al. Construction and Comprehensive Analysis of Dysregulated Long Noncoding RNA-Associated Competing Endogenous RNA Network in Moyamoya Disease. Construction and Comprehensive Analysis of Dysregulated Long Noncoding RNA-Associated Competing Endogenous RNA Network in Moyamoya Disease. 2020; 2020:2018214. doi: 10.1155/2020/2018214

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32617116/
