PMID: 32617498
Title: Pre-procedural planning of transcatheter mitral valve replacement in mitral stenosis with multi-detector tomography-derived 3D modeling and printing: a case report.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Transcatheter mitral valve replacement (TMVR) may be a valuable treatment option for mitral annular calcification and severe mitral stenosis (MS) in patients at high operative risk. Pre-procedural virtual and printed simulations may aid in procedure planning, device sizing, and mitigate complications such as valve embolization or left ventricular outflow tract (LVOT) obstruction.
CASE SUMMARY: We describe a case of TMVR in which multi-detector computed tomography (MDCT) derived, three-dimensional virtual planning and a 3D-printed model of the patients' left heart provided enhanced understanding of an individual patient's unique anatomy to determine feasibility, device sizing, and risk stratification. This resulted in deployment of an adequately sized valve. Post-TMVR LVOT obstruction was treated with LVOT balloon dilatation and percutaneous transluminal septal myocardial ablation.
DISCUSSION: Advanced MDCT-derived planning techniques introduce consistent 3D modeling and printing to enhance understanding of intracardiac anatomical relationships and test device implantation. Still, static measurements do not feature haemodynamic factors, tissue, or device characteristics and do not predict device host interaction. Transcatheter mitral valve replacement is feasible in MS when adequately pre-procedurally planned. Multi-detector computed tomography-derived, 3D, virtual and printed models contribute to adequate planning in terms of determining patient eligibility, procedure feasibility, and device sizing. However, static 3D modeling cannot completely eliminate the risk of peri-procedural complications.

Citation: Ooms J, et al. Pre-procedural planning of transcatheter mitral valve replacement in mitral stenosis with multi-detector tomography-derived 3D modeling and printing: a case report. Pre-procedural planning of transcatheter mitral valve replacement in mitral stenosis with multi-detector tomography-derived 3D modeling and printing: a case report. 2020; 4:1-6. doi: 10.1093/ehjcr/ytaa098

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32617498/
