PMID: 32616349
Title: Aortic uncrossing and tracheobronchopexy corrects tracheal compression and tracheobronchomalacia associated with circumflex aortic arch.

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: Aortic uncrossing is an effective procedure for relieving the external airway compression from a circumflex aortic arch by transferring the aortic arch to the same side as the descending aorta. However, patients frequently have residual tracheobronchomalacia (TBM), which may result in persistent postoperative symptoms. We review a series of patients who underwent an aortic uncrossing and concomitant tracheobronchopexy to correct the airway compression and residual TBM.
METHODS: Retrospective review of all patients who underwent aortic uncrossing and concomitant tracheobronchopexy at a single institution between September 2016 and March 2019. Preoperative evaluation included computed tomography angiography and rigid 3-phase dynamic bronchoscopy.
RESULTS: Eight patients who ranged in age from 4 months to 15 years with significant respiratory symptoms underwent an aortic uncrossing procedure with concomitant tracheobronchial procedures. Mild hypothermic cardiopulmonary bypass (mean time, 105.6 ± 39.4 min) and regional perfusion (mean time, 44 ± 10 min) were used without circulatory arrest. Intraoperative bronchoscopy demonstrated no patients had residual TBM. There were no postoperative mortalities, neurologic complications, chylothoraces, coarctations, or obstructed aortic arches. Two patients required tracheostomy and gastrostomy for bilateral recurrent laryngeal nerve paresis (patients 2 and 3). One patient with bronchial stenosis after concomitant slide bronchoplasty required stenting. At a median follow-up of 22 months (range, 5-34 months), all patients were alive without evidence of significant respiratory symptoms.
CONCLUSIONS: The aortic uncrossing procedure can be performed safely in pediatric patients of all ages without circulatory arrest. Concomitant procedures addressing associated TBM can significantly improve respiratory symptoms.

Citation: Kamran A, et al. Aortic uncrossing and tracheobronchopexy corrects tracheal compression and tracheobronchomalacia associated with circumflex aortic arch. Aortic uncrossing and tracheobronchopexy corrects tracheal compression and tracheobronchomalacia associated with circumflex aortic arch. 2020; 160:796-804. doi: 10.1016/j.jtcvs.2020.03.158

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32616349/
