PMID: 32624193
Title: Can Computed Fractional Flow Reserve Coronary CT Angiography (FFRCT) Offer an Accurate Noninvasive Comparison to Invasive Coronary Angiography (ICA)? "The Noninvasive CATH." A Comprehensive Review.

Abstract: Invasive coronary angiography (ICA) serves as a very important tool in the diagnosis of coronary artery disease (CAD) and provides information for further intervention. Fractional Flow Reserve (FFR) at the time of ICA is the gold standard to analyze the hemodynamic and physiologic significance of moderate coronary stenosis. The dawn of coronary CT angiography (CTA) has helped in visualizing the anatomy of coronary arteries. Computed Fractional Flow Reserve (FFRCT) from such an imaging study shows promise in providing valuable data about physiology on top of the anatomy noninvasively; which can guide decision-making process for revascularization. This manuscript aims to review the accuracy of FFRCT obtained from a coronary CTA in the diagnosis of hemodynamically significant coronary artery stenosis and ruling out nonsignificant coronary artery stenosis when compared to the Gold standard of FFR obtained during ICA. We conducted a Medline search using various combinations of "FFRCT," "ICA" "noninvasive," "significant stenosis," and "CAD" to identify pivotal randomized trials published before May 1, 2020, for inclusion in this review. Concurrently, major practice guidelines, trial bibliographies, and pertinent reviews were examined to ensure inclusion of relevant trials. A consensus among the authors was used to choose items for narrative inclusion. The following section reviews data from pivotal trials to determine a noninvasive strategy in appropriate patients to accurately detect functionally significant stenosis. For these trials, the sensitivity, specificity, and accuracy are compared. Trials reviewed: CTA, FFRCT, ICA, CT-myocardial perfusion imaging. FFRCT is a novel noninvasive modality which localizes significant "ischemia-causing" stenosis (≤0.80) by means of crystal fluid dynamics eliminating the need for vasodilators. The analysis of FFRCT by DISCOVER FLOW, DeFACTO, NXT trials revealed high sensitivity, negative predictive value, and good accuracy. The ADVANCE registry showed significantly lower events of CV death or myocardial infarction with a negative FFRCT (>0.80 study). The PLATFORM trial showed significant reduction in negative ICA with negative FFRCT, thus ultimately reducing the number of unnecessary percutaneous coronary intervention. Decrease in healthcare costs was noted with FFRCT, decreasing downstream testing, and invasive procedures. FFRCT is a novel modality for analyzing significant stenosis in CAD noninvasively. The high sensitivity of this modality could make it a good rule out tool to avoid unnecessary intervention in physiologically insignificant lesions. Limitations of this modality include low specificity, double exposure to contrast, turnaround time, and upfront costs. Further query into this matter is warranted.

Citation: Raja J, et al. Can Computed Fractional Flow Reserve Coronary CT Angiography (FFRCT) Offer an Accurate Noninvasive Comparison to Invasive Coronary Angiography (ICA)? "The Noninvasive CATH." A Comprehensive Review. Can Computed Fractional Flow Reserve Coronary CT Angiography (FFRCT) Offer an Accurate Noninvasive Comparison to Invasive Coronary Angiography (ICA)? "The Noninvasive CATH." A Comprehensive Review. 2021; 46:100642. doi: 10.1016/j.cpcardiol.2020.100642

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32624193/
