PMID: 32622547
Title: Iatrogenic esophageal perforation caused by endoscopic dilatation of caustic stricture: Current management and possibility of esophageal salvage.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Iatrogenic esophageal perforation (EP) is an undesirable complication of endoscopic dilatation of caustic esophageal stricture. We reported our current management protocol with possibility of continuing the dilatation program.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: From January 2009 to January 2020 medical records were reviewed for patients presented with iatrogenic EP. Management according to each case condition was reported.
RESULTS: 24 patients were enrolled, aged from 1.5 to 6 years old. Perforation was cervical in one case, abdominal in two cases, and thoracic in 21 cases. Immediate surgical repair was performed in the abdominal cases. Conservative management was chosen in 22 cases; two cases didn't respond and underwent esophageal diversion, and one of them died owing to severe sepsis. Three patients refused another trial of dilatation. Two cases failed to be redilated. 17 patients continued a dilatation program. Time passed between perforation and redilatation ranged from 35 days to 7 months. 15 patients were cured completely from dysphagia, one patient had marked improvement of his dysphagia, and one case with a resistant stricture was referred for esophageal replacement.
CONCLUSION: Preserving the native esophagus is possible after iatrogenic EP of caustic esophageal stricture. A conservative approach should be attempted with caution not to endanger patient's life. Level IV of evidence.

Citation: El-Asmar KM, et al. Iatrogenic esophageal perforation caused by endoscopic dilatation of caustic stricture: Current management and possibility of esophageal salvage. Iatrogenic esophageal perforation caused by endoscopic dilatation of caustic stricture: Current management and possibility of esophageal salvage. 2021; 56:692-696. doi: 10.1016/j.jpedsurg.2020.05.038

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32622547/
