PMID: 32637873
Title: Is peritoneal dialysis prior to kidney transplantation a risk factor for ureteral stenosis after adult to adult live kidney transplantation.

Abstract: OBJECTIVES: Major urinary complications such as urinary leaks, stenosis or urinary tract infections after kidney transplantation can lead to graft or patient loss. The effect of peritoneal dialysis on post-kidney transplantation complications have been discussed but its effect on ureteral stenosis is unknown. In this study, it was aimed to analyze factors effecting major ureteral complications after living donor kidney transplantation and impact of peritoneal dialysis and double J-stents (JJ stents).
MATERIAL AND METHODS: This study included 116 adult to adult living donor kidney transplant patients. Factors effecting major urologic complications after living donor kidney transplantation were analyzed. The donors were primary relatives of the recipients.
RESULTS: Major urologic complications after living donor kidney transplantation was 8/116 (6.9%). Urinary leak was present in 2 (1.7%) patients. Ureteral stenosis was encountered in 6 (5.2%) patients. Double J stents were used in 84 (72.4%) of the cases. The effect of JJ ureteral stent was not statistically significant for urinary leak, ureteral stenosis (p= 0.074, p= 0.470, respectively). A total of 29 (25%) patients had peritoneal dialysis before kidney transplantation. Preoperative peritoneal dialyses and bacteriuria after kidney transplantation were independent risk factors for ureteral stenosis in multivariate analysis (p= 0.013, and p= 0.010 respectively).
CONCLUSION: In the guidance of the results of the present study, peritoneal dialysis prior to kidney transplantation and bacteriuria are independent risk factors for ureteral stenosis after living donor kidney transplantation. JJ stents have no effect on urologic complications after living donor kidney transplantation.

Citation: Kutlutürk K, et al. Is peritoneal dialysis prior to kidney transplantation a risk factor for ureteral stenosis after adult to adult live kidney transplantation. Is peritoneal dialysis prior to kidney transplantation a risk factor for ureteral stenosis after adult to adult live kidney transplantation. 2020; 36:33-38. doi: 10.5578/turkjsurg.4605

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32637873/
