PMID: 32634804
Title: Fetal Cardiac Intervention for Pulmonary Atresia with Intact Ventricular Septum: International Fetal Cardiac Intervention Registry.

Abstract: INTRODUCTION: Invasive fetal cardiac intervention (FCI) for pulmonary atresia with intact ventricular septum (PAIVS) and critical pulmonary stenosis (PS) has been performed with small single-institution series reporting technical and physiological success. We present the first multicenter experience.
OBJECTIVES: Describe fetal and maternal characteristics of those being evaluated for FCI, including pregnancy/neonatal outcome data using the International Fetal Cardiac Intervention Registry (IFCIR).
METHODS: We queried the IFCIR for PAIVS/PS cases evaluated from January 2001 to April 2018 and reviewed maternal/fetal characteristics, procedural details, pregnancy and neonatal outcomes. Data were analyzed using standard descriptive statistics.
RESULTS: Of the 84 maternal/fetal dyads in the registry, 58 underwent pulmonary valvuloplasty at a median gestational age of 26.1 (21.9-31.0) weeks. Characteristics of fetuses undergoing FCI varied in terms of tricuspid valve (TV) size, TV regurgitation, and pulmonary valve patency. There were fetal complications in 55% of cases, including 7 deaths and 2 delayed fetal losses. Among those who underwent successful FCI, the absolute measurement of the TV increased by 0.32 (±0.17) mm/week from intervention to birth. Among 60 liveborn with known outcome, there was a higher percentage having a biventricular circulation following successful FCI (87 vs. 43%).
CONCLUSIONS: Our data suggest a possible benefit to fetal therapy for PAIVS/PS, though rates of technically unsuccessful procedures and procedure-related complications, including fetal loss were substantial. FCI criteria are extremely variable, making direct comparison to nonintervention patients challenging and potentially biased. More uniform FCI criteria for fetuses with PAIVS/PS are needed to avoid unnecessary procedures, expose only fetuses most likely to sustain a benefit, and to enable comparisons to be made with nonintervention patients.

Citation: Hogan WJ, et al. Fetal Cardiac Intervention for Pulmonary Atresia with Intact Ventricular Septum: International Fetal Cardiac Intervention Registry. Fetal Cardiac Intervention for Pulmonary Atresia with Intact Ventricular Septum: International Fetal Cardiac Intervention Registry. 2020; (unknown volume):1-9. doi: 10.1159/000508045

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32634804/
