PMID: 32646806
Title: Video review reveals technical factors predictive of biliary stricture and cholangitis after robotic pancreaticoduodenectomy.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Cholangitis due to anastomotic stricture of the hepaticojejunostomy (HJ) following pancreaticoduodenectomy (PD), while uncommon, adversely affects postoperative quality-of-life. While prior studies have identified patient-related risk factors for these biliary complications, technical risk factors have not been systematically examined. Video review of surgical procedures has helped define technical details predictive of postoperative complications in bariatric and hepato-pancreato-biliary (HPB) surgery. Similarly, the present study utilized video review to identify technical factors associated with cholangitis and anastomotic biliary stricture following robotic PD.
METHODS: This was an observational study. A blinded experienced HPB surgeon reviewed videos of post-learning-curve HJs performed during robotic PD and extracted 20 technical variables. Other demographic and clinical variables were collected from a prospectively maintained database.
RESULTS: 241 robotic PD videos were reviewed. 29 (12.0%) developed cholangitis and/or biliary stricture, with a median time-to-event of 189 (IQR 78-365) days. Several clinical and technical factors were independently predictive of cholangitis and/or biliary stricture: preoperative radiotherapy, small duct size (<10 mm diameter), increased distance of the HJ (>10 mm) from the hilar plate, and continuous suturing technique.
CONCLUSION: Post-hoc video review of HJ is a powerful method to predict biliary complications. Moreover, altering specific technical factors might enable surgeons to improve postoperative outcomes.

Citation: Brown JA, et al. Video review reveals technical factors predictive of biliary stricture and cholangitis after robotic pancreaticoduodenectomy. Video review reveals technical factors predictive of biliary stricture and cholangitis after robotic pancreaticoduodenectomy. 2021; 23:144-153. doi: 10.1016/j.hpb.2020.05.013

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32646806/
