PMID: 32643636
Title: Therapeutic bronchoscopic interventions for nonmalignant central airway obstruction provide rapid and sustained improvement in symptoms and functional status.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Central airway obstruction (CAO) is a potentially lethal condition that requires urgent endobronchial intervention and may occur due to several nonmalignant causes. The effect of these interventions on clinically relevant outcomes such as symptomatic and functional status over a period of time is, however, sparsely studied.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Consecutive patients with CAO due to nonmalignant causes and undergoing various therapeutic bronchoscopy procedures were evaluated. Symptoms were assessed using the Visual Analog Scale (VAS) and Speiser score, and functional status was assessed using the 6-min walk test, spirometry, and St. George Respiratory Questionnaire (SGRQ) score at baseline and after 48 h, 4 weeks, and 12 weeks postprocedure.
RESULTS: Over 2 years, 31 patients with CAO due to nonmalignant etiology underwent 41 therapeutic bronchoscopic procedures. Majority of procedures (96.8%) were done using the rigid bronchoscope under general anesthesia. Postintubation tracheal stenosis was the most common indication (32.2%). The various procedures included, controlled radial expansion balloon dilatation of the stenotic airway (53.6%), deployment of silicone stents (19.5%), and mechanical debulking of airway tumors (16.1%). Significant improvement occurred in dyspnea and cough scores and in the Speiser score from baseline to 48 h postprocedure, and further improved at 4 weeks and 12 weeks. Similarly, the 6 min walk distance, forced expiratory volume in 1 s, and SGRQ scores progressively improved from baseline to 12 weeks. Complications occurred in 26.8% of total procedures, with no procedure-related mortality.
CONCLUSION: Therapeutic bronchoscopy interventions provide rapid and sustained benefits in symptoms and functional status of participants with CAO of nonmalignant etiology, with an acceptable safety profile.

Citation: Shrestha P, et al. Therapeutic bronchoscopic interventions for nonmalignant central airway obstruction provide rapid and sustained improvement in symptoms and functional status. Therapeutic bronchoscopic interventions for nonmalignant central airway obstruction provide rapid and sustained improvement in symptoms and functional status. 2020; 37:295-299. doi: 10.4103/lungindia.lungindia_476_19

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32643636/
