PMID: 32645780
Title: Invasive Hemodynamic Characteristics in Patients Undergoing Transcatheter Tricuspid Valve-In-Valve Implantation for Treatment of Tricuspid Stenosis.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: We sought to describe invasive hemodynamic measurements in patients with tricuspid stenosis (TS) undergoing transcatheter tricuspid valve-in-valve (TVIV) implantation immediately pre- and postimplantation. Development of TS in patients who have undergone surgical tricuspid valve replacement with a bioprosthetic valve is a serious complication that leads to elevated right atrial (RA) pressures and decreased cardiac output. Transcatheter TVIV implantation is a viable alternative to surgical tricuspid valve replacement, but data on the hemodynamic consequences of TVIV for the treatment of severe TS are currently limited to echocardiographic assessment of Doppler-derived gradients.
METHODS: Eleven patients undergoing transcatheter TVIV implantation with moderate to severe bioprosthetic valve stenosis were selected for retrospective review. Right atrial mean pressure, right ventricular (RV) systolic and end-diastolic pressure, mean diastolic RA-RV pressure gradient, pulmonary artery capillary wedge pressure, pulmonary artery systolic, end-diastolic and mean pressures, and pulmonary artery pulsatility index (PAPi) both before and after transcatheter valve placement were collected from catheterization reports.
RESULTS: After transcatheter TVIV implantation, the mean TS gradient decreased significantly (P &lt; .01), while the mean RV end-diastolic pressure increased (P = .046). Pulmonary artery pulsatility index also increased as the TS was relieved (P = .039).
CONCLUSIONS: Tricuspid valve-in-valve implantation results in immediate relief of TS, leading to increased RV preload with resultant augmentation of RV and pulmonary pressures. Increased PAPi following the procedure demonstrates acute improvement in RV output but remains low due to the failure of the RA pressure to decline significantly immediately following intervention.

Citation: Patel K, et al. Invasive Hemodynamic Characteristics in Patients Undergoing Transcatheter Tricuspid Valve-In-Valve Implantation for Treatment of Tricuspid Stenosis. Invasive Hemodynamic Characteristics in Patients Undergoing Transcatheter Tricuspid Valve-In-Valve Implantation for Treatment of Tricuspid Stenosis. 2020; 11:411-416. doi: 10.1177/2150135120910366

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32645780/
