PMID: 32642205
Title: Mitral regurgitation after transcatheter aortic valve replacement.

Abstract: UNLABELLED: Patients undergoing transcatheter aortic valve replacement (TAVR) might have an associated significant MR that can potentially lead to left ventricular (LV) failure after procedure. Considering the specific alterations in the mitral valve in TAVR scenario and the widespread use of TAVR in recent years, it appears important to know and understand the anatomical, functional and clinical implications to develop adequate strategies for the future. Patients with severe mitral regurgitation (MR) have been generally excluded from randomized clinical trials, making poor the impact that associated MR can have on clinical outcomes after TAVR. Several factors must be considered whose presence influences the severity of MR. For example, the elevated prevalence of coronary disease with consequent ischemic MR may account for LV dilation observed at the end stage of aortic stenosis. Evidence randomized studies and registries suggests that the rate of concomitant moderate-to-severe MR in patients undergoing TAVR oscillates between 2% and 33%, and patients with moderate to severe MR may have hemodynamic frailty with clinical deterioration during mechanical intervention. Short- and long-term outcomes, including cardiac mortality, appear to be influenced by the existence of preoperative moderate-to-severe MR or by the postprocedural worsening of mild MR, generally due to adverse LV remodeling. The incidence and the prognostic effect of concomitant MR in patients undergoing TAVR requires specific attention as might trigger adjunctive strategy treatment which should be carefully evaluated in clinical trials.
KEYWORDS: Mitral regurgitation (MR); mitral valve; transcatheter aortic valve; transcatheter aortic valve replacement (TAVR).

Citation: Nappi F, et al. Mitral regurgitation after transcatheter aortic valve replacement. Mitral regurgitation after transcatheter aortic valve replacement. 2020; 12:2926-2935. doi: 10.21037/jtd.2020.01.69

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32642205/
