PMID: 32647064
Title: Changes in Prognosis of Heterotaxy Syndrome Over Time.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Long-term outcomes in heterotaxy syndrome (HS) are poorly described. Some reports suggest improved survival in the recent era, whereas others do not. We sought to describe long-term outcomes and assess whether outcomes have changed over time.
METHODS: Patients with HS born between 1985 and 2014 who had cardiac care (except initial palliation) at our institution were divided into 4 birth eras and survival over time was compared. Independent risk factors for mortality were identified by using Cox proportional hazards regression. In patients who underwent surgery, association between surgical pathway (univentricular versus biventricular repair) and mortality after adjusting for baseline confounders was evaluated. A risk stratification model was created by using classification and regression analysis.
RESULTS: Among 264 patients, 118 (44.7%) had asplenia and 146 (55.3%) had polysplenia syndrome. Overall mortality was 40.2% (n = 106), with median follow-up of 10.2 years (longest 31.5 years). In multivariable analysis, pulmonary vein stenosis, coarctation, univentricular circulation, asplenia phenotype, and at least mild atrioventricular valve regurgitation at presentation were associated with mortality, whereas birth era was not. Among patients who underwent surgery, univentricular repair remained associated with mortality after adjustment. In classification and regression analysis, patients with biventricular circulation (especially those with polysplenia) had lower mortality than those with univentricular circulation.
CONCLUSIONS: In this large retrospective study of HS, outcomes remain poor and have not improved since the early 1990s. We identified risks factors associated with earlier mortality and found that those with univentricular circulation and totally anomalous pulmonary venous connection had the worst prognosis. Survival was higher in those with biventricular circulation.

Citation: Banka P, et al. Changes in Prognosis of Heterotaxy Syndrome Over Time. Changes in Prognosis of Heterotaxy Syndrome Over Time. 2020; 146:(unknown pages). doi: 10.1542/peds.2019-3345

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32647064/
