PMID: 32649359
Title: Percutaneous management of coronary bifurcation lesions: current perspective.

Abstract: PURPOSE OF REVIEW: Coronary artery disease affecting bifurcations poses a challenge for percutaneous intervention. Several techniques and strategies for percutaneous management of bifurcation lesions have been described in the literature with variable data available for outcomes. In this review, we provide an overview of the strategies and techniques used for percutaneous intervention of bifurcation lesions with an update of recent technical developments and clinical evidence.
RECENT FINDINGS: The coronary bifurcation lesions of both left main and other coronary segments are best treated with a provisional stenting strategy where main branch is treated with a stent placement and side branch intervention reserved for angiographically or physiologically determined hemodynamically significant residual stenosis despite application of a proximal stent optimization technique. When a provisional stent strategy is not likely to be successful due to anatomic or morphologic lesion characteristics and a large side branch or distal left main bifurcation is involved, an upfront bifurcation stenting strategy with double kissing crush technique may provide the optimum results. Coronary imaging and fractional flow determination may guide lesion specific management, facilitate device selection and improve clinical outcomes for percutaneous therapy for bifurcation lesions.
SUMMARY: Despite advances in technology and procedural techniques, percutaneous intervention of coronary bifurcation lesions remains challenging and associated with higher adverse outcomes compared to non bifurcation lesions. Among the several bifurcation strategies, a provisional stenting approach is preferred for technical simplicity and better long term outcomes. Double kissing crush technique provides superior clinical results and should be preferred when a two stent strategy is indicated. Use of coronary imaging and physiology assessment should be incorporated in the algorithm of bifurcation interventions for greater technical and clinical success.

Citation: Wassef AWA, et al. Percutaneous management of coronary bifurcation lesions: current perspective. Percutaneous management of coronary bifurcation lesions: current perspective. 2020; 35:574-582. doi: 10.1097/HCO.0000000000000775

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32649359/
