PMID: 32659416
Title: Radial Plus Ipsilateral Femoral Approach is Feasible in Percutaneous Interventions for Iliac Artery Chronic Total Occlusion.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Compared with conventional bilateral femoral (BF) approach, radial plus ipsilateral femoral (RF) approach may be feasible in the percutaneous intervention for iliac artery chronic total occlusion (CTO).
METHODS: We included patients who underwent iliac CTO intervention between August 2009 and July 2018 in a tertiary referral center in Korea.
RESULTS: A total of 83 patients were enrolled in this study. Of them, 51 and 32 patients were categorized into RF and BF initial access groups, respectively. The overall success rates were 98.0% and 96.7% in RF and BF group, respectively, and the techniques were also similar including use of bilateral wiring, stent type and profile, and post balloon but longer procedure time in the BF group. Additional contralateral femoral access was needed in 6 patients for the treatment of contralateral lesions, distal embolization, and due to tortuous right subclavian artery. Periprocedural complications including vascular injury, iliac perforation, and distal embolization occurred similarly in both groups with numerically lower rate of periprocedural bleeding in the RF group (9.8%) than in the BF group (21.9%). Clinical follow-up at 6 months showed there were no difference in the rates of death, cardiovascular death, target-limb reintervention, and unplanned target limb amputation in both groups.
CONCLUSIONS: RF approach for iliac CTO intervention was related to similar technical success rate with acceptable periprocedural safety outcomes compared with conventional BF approach.

Citation: Yoon YH, et al. Radial Plus Ipsilateral Femoral Approach is Feasible in Percutaneous Interventions for Iliac Artery Chronic Total Occlusion. Radial Plus Ipsilateral Femoral Approach is Feasible in Percutaneous Interventions for Iliac Artery Chronic Total Occlusion. 2021; 71:257-263. doi: 10.1016/j.avsg.2020.07.005

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32659416/
