PMID: 32652946
Title: The risk factors for calcification vary among the different sections of the lower extremity artery in patients with symptomatic peripheral arterial disease.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Peripheral arterial disease (PAD) is associated with considerable mortality and morbidity worldwide. The present study explored the risk factors for arterial calcification among the different sections of the lower extremity in patients with PAD and analyzed their correlations with the extent of arterial stenosis at the corresponding section.
METHODS: This study enrolled symptomatic PAD patients from our hospital from March 2017 to March 2018. The lower extremity arterial calcification score (LEACS) and lower extremity arterial stenosis index (LEASI), representing the extent of arterial stenosis, were measured on computed tomography (CT) and the correlations between them were analyzed using Spearman's correlation analysis. The relationships between risk factors and calcification were analyzed among the different sections of the lower extremity artery.
RESULTS: In total, 209 patients were included. The LEACSs of the total lower extremity, aortoiliac artery, and femoropopliteal and infrapopliteal arteries were correlated with the LEASI (all P < 0.05), but their correlation was relatively weak in the aortoiliac artery. Univariate analysis showed that hypertension was associated with the total (P = 0.019) and aortoiliac (P = 0.012) LEACSs. Diabetes was related to both femoropopliteal (P = 0.001) and infrapopliteal (P = 0.002) LEACSs. The infrapopliteal LEACS was higher in male patients (P = 0.011). After adjustment for age, the above relationships were maintained among the different sections, but not in the total lower extremity artery.
CONCLUSIONS: The LEACS is associated with the LEASI in all arterial sections, but that of the aortoiliac artery was relatively weak. Different factors have different effects on calcification among the various sections of the lower extremity artery.

Citation: Yan H, et al. The risk factors for calcification vary among the different sections of the lower extremity artery in patients with symptomatic peripheral arterial disease. The risk factors for calcification vary among the different sections of the lower extremity artery in patients with symptomatic peripheral arterial disease. 2020; 20:333. doi: 10.1186/s12872-020-01615-w

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32652946/
