PMID: 32652684
Title: Prospective randomized trial of endoscopic vs open radial artery harvest for CABG: Clinical outcome, patient satisfaction, and midterm RA graft patency.

Abstract: BACKGROUND AND AIM: Endoscopic radial artery (RA) harvest (ERAH) is an alternative to open RA harvest (ORAH) technique. Our aim was to ascertain clinical outcomes, patent satisfaction, and 1-year angiographic patency rates after ERAH and ORAH.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: A total of 50 patients undergoing coronary artery bypass grafting were prospectively randomized to two groups. In the ERAH group (25 patients) the RA was harvested endoscopically and in the ORAH group (25 patients) openly.
RESULTS: There were not differences between the groups in preoperative characteristics. Length of skin incision was shorter in ERAH (P < .001) but there were not differences in the length of RA, harvest time, blood flow, and pulsatility index after ERAH and ORAH. Wound healing was uniformly smooth in ERAH and there were two hematomas and one infection in ORAH. Postoperatively, major neuralgias were present in five patients in ORAH and none in ERAH and minor neuralgias in 11 and 3 patients (P = .02) respectively. Twenty-four patients in ERAH and four in ORAH graded their experience as excellent (P < .001). One-year angiographic RA patency was 90% without intergroup difference. Target vessel stenosis less than 90% adversely affected RA patency (P < .0001).
CONCLUSIONS: In expert center, ERAH does not appear to have negative impact on the time harvest, the length, and quality of RA conduit, the wound healing, and the occurrence of hand and forearm complications. In addition, provides excellent cosmetic result and patient satisfaction. RA graft patency is gratifying when placed to a target coronary artery vessel with stenosis greater than 90%.

Citation: Tamim M, et al. Prospective randomized trial of endoscopic vs open radial artery harvest for CABG: Clinical outcome, patient satisfaction, and midterm RA graft patency. Prospective randomized trial of endoscopic vs open radial artery harvest for CABG: Clinical outcome, patient satisfaction, and midterm RA graft patency. 2020; 35:2147-2154. doi: 10.1111/jocs.14706

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32652684/
