PMID: 32652646
Title: Left innominate vein creation using left internal jugular vein tunneled to right internal jugular vein.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Left innominate vein occlusion is a known complication of pacemaker and central venous catheter placement. For dialysis-dependent patients with an arteriovenous fistula (AVF), this can prevent successful hemodialysis and may require surgical intervention.
CASE REPORT: An 8-month-old male was diagnosed with hemolytic uremic syndrome and became dialysis-dependent at 11 months of age. After multiple vascular access and peritoneal dialysis complications, the patient had construction of a brachiobasalic AVF in his left arm at 13 years old. While waiting for the AVF to mature, an attempt to remove a previously placed left subclavian vein port-a-cath was unsuccessful and a follow-up imaging revealed that the vessel had become occluded. The fistula remained patent, but due to arm swelling and venous obstruction, his fistula was not accessible. Multiple attempts to percutaneously cross the left innominate vein were unsuccessful and the patient was referred for surgical intervention. At 15 years old, the patient was taken to the operating room for transposition of the left internal jugular vein (LIJ) to the right internal jugular vein (RIJ). The LIJ was transected under the mandible and anastomosed to the RIJ. Subsequently the patient underwent VWING insertion rather than venous transposition for constant site dialysis. Although he has required frequent transcatheter dilation of the LIJ-RIJ anastomosis, the patient was successfully dialyzed using this fistula for 5 years. The patient received a cadaveric renal transplant at 5 years 20 days.
CONCLUSIONS: In cases of left innominate vein stenosis, transposing the LIJ can create a new left innominate vein that can alleviate venous hypertension and preserve fistula function. This procedure avoids sternotomy and only requires one anastomosis.

Citation: Kilcoyne MF, et al. Left innominate vein creation using left internal jugular vein tunneled to right internal jugular vein. Left innominate vein creation using left internal jugular vein tunneled to right internal jugular vein. 2020; 35:2370-2374. doi: 10.1111/jocs.14654

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32652646/
