PMID: 32656121
Title: Comparative Study of Minimally Invasive Lumbar Decompression versus Decompressive Laminectomy with Posterolateral Transpedicular Fixation for the Treatment of Degenerative Lumbar Canal Stenosis.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: The classic laminectomy for spinal decompression was the treatment of choice of the degenerative lumbar canal stenosis (LCS). Many surgeons prefer to add instrumented lumbar fusion to avoid future instability after the removal of posterior elements. Adding fusion is associated with more bleeding and longer periods of hospitalization. Minimally invasive lumbar decompression (MILD) has been advocated for successful decompression with less bleeding loss and shorter hospitalization.
AIM OF THE WORK: To evaluate and compare the clinical outcomes of two different treatment modalities for degenerative LCS: the classic laminectomy with posterolateral transpedicular screw fixation and the MILD.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Fifty patients with degenerative LCS were randomized from two institutions: Ain Shams University Hospital and Arab Contractors Medical Center, who underwent surgeries for degenerative LCS between 2016 and 2018 with 1-year follow-up. The study compared two cohorts: Group A - 25 patients underwent classic lumbar laminectomy with posterolateral transpedicular fixation, and Group B - 25 patients underwent MILD.
RESULTS: There were no statistically significant differences between both treatment modalities in the VAS for leg pain and back pain, the patient satisfaction index, and the Oswestry disability index after 1 year. The fusion operations were associated with higher estimates of blood loss, longer hospital stay, and more financial costs.
CONCLUSION: MILD has the same satisfactory results as classic laminectomy with posterolateral fixation for the treatment of degenerative LCS with less bleeding loss and shorter hospitalization. Since the results are comparable, MILD is suggested in low-income countries as Egypt for economic reasons.

Citation: Aldahshory AR, et al. Comparative Study of Minimally Invasive Lumbar Decompression versus Decompressive Laminectomy with Posterolateral Transpedicular Fixation for the Treatment of Degenerative Lumbar Canal Stenosis. Comparative Study of Minimally Invasive Lumbar Decompression versus Decompressive Laminectomy with Posterolateral Transpedicular Fixation for the Treatment of Degenerative Lumbar Canal Stenosis. 2020; 15:293-301. doi: 10.4103/ajns.AJNS_132_20

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32656121/
