PMID: 32664170
Title: Fatal vascular complications during transradial percutaneous coronary intervention: A case report.

Abstract: RATIONALE: Vascular complications of transradial percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) are rare and usually occur at the access site below the elbow. However, vessels along the tract of the wire or catheter can be injured at any point, causing various types of bleeding complications.
PATIENT CONCERNS: A 57-year-old man visited due to chest discomfort. Coronary angiography showed significant stenosis at the distal right coronary artery (RCA). Immediately after the coronary guidewire was passed through the distal RCA, he started a vigorous cough. The voice changed, dyspnea occurred within minutes, and lip cyanosis and stridor were observed. After endotracheal intubation, successful stenting of the distal RCA was achieved. He was extubated at 30 minutes after coronary stenting, but 1-hour post-extubation, his blood pressure suddenly decreased to 70/50 mmHg.
DIAGNOSIS: Mediastinal widening was newly noted on chest X-ray, and blood hemoglobin was decreased. Contrast-enhanced chest computed tomography showed mediastinal hematoma, tracheal compression, and hemothorax. Contrast extravasation was noted in the terminal branches of the inferior thyroid artery on brachiocephalic angiography.
INTERVENTIONS: Successful hemostasis was achieved with endovascular embolization therapy using a Tornado embolization microcoil, Gelfoam gelatin sponge, and Histoacryl glue. The next day, the mediastinal hemorrhage was drained by mediastinoscopy. The endotracheal intubation and ventilator care were maintained for 2 days, and 6 units of packed red blood cells were transfused. Antithrombotics were used to prevent stent thrombosis, and antibiotics to control infection, respectively.
OUTCOMES: After successful hemostasis, thrombocytosis and high on-treatment platelet reactivity that disappeared at 2 weeks post-discharge were noted. Follow-up chest imaging showed the normalized mediastinal widening. At 14 months post-discharge, the patient remains healthy.
LESSONS: As life-threating vascular complications, such as brachiocephalic, subclavian vessel dissection, and vessel perforation in the internal mammary, costocervical, and thyrocervical arteries, can occur anytime during transradial PCI, the intervention cardiologist should be well aware of it and have the appropriate countermeasures implemented in the routine procedure.

Citation: Choi S, et al. Fatal vascular complications during transradial percutaneous coronary intervention: A case report. Fatal vascular complications during transradial percutaneous coronary intervention: A case report. 2020; 99:e21205. doi: 10.1097/MD.0000000000021205

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32664170/
