PMID: 32661596
Title: Lymphatic malformations compromising the upper airway in children: ultrasound-guided intralesional focal sclerotherapy with bleomycin targeting culprit lesions.

Abstract: PURPOSE: Lymphatic malformations (LMs) compromising the upper airway is a life-threatening and intractable disease. Here, we establish a novel method to perform intralesional focal sclerotherapy targeting the culprit for airway stenosis.
METHODS: Between July 2015 and February 2020, 11 patients with airway-compromising LMs were enrolled. To yield maximal effects on the compromised airway with minimal adverse effects, ultrasound-guided intralesional bleomycin sclerotherapy assisted by balloon was performed, aimed at the most responsible lesion around the airway. A retrospective analysis was performed.
RESULTS: Ten patients presented with respiratory symptoms, eight of whom required airway support. The last asymptomatic patient showed airway compression on magnetic resonance imaging. The dose of bleomycin injected ranged from 1.3-9 mg per patient per course. A median of one course was required for withdrawal from airway support, and the median time was 15 days. A median of two courses was required to eliminate the lesion adjacent to the airway, which would have potential risk of airway stenosis. No complications were observed.
CONCLUSIONS: Our intralesional focal sclerotherapy technique with bleomycin targeting the culprit lesion is dose-sparing, safe, and effective in achieving rapid shrinkage of LMs compromising the upper airway in children, thereby avoiding tracheostomy.

Citation: Usui H, et al. Lymphatic malformations compromising the upper airway in children: ultrasound-guided intralesional focal sclerotherapy with bleomycin targeting culprit lesions. Lymphatic malformations compromising the upper airway in children: ultrasound-guided intralesional focal sclerotherapy with bleomycin targeting culprit lesions. 2020; 36:1047-1054. doi: 10.1007/s00383-020-04715-y

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32661596/
