PMID: 32668689
Title: Plasma Metabolomic Profiling Associates Bicuspid Aortic Valve Disease and Ascending Aortic Dilation with a Decrease in Antioxidant Capacity.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: The bicuspid aortic valve (BAV) is the most common cardiac congenital disease and is associated with an increased risk of developing ascending aorta dilation; which can have fatal consequences. Currently; no established risk biomarkers exist to facilitate the diagnosis and prognosis of BAV.
METHODS: Using an untargeted metabolomic approach; we identified the levels of metabolites in plasma samples and compared them depending on the bicuspid or tricuspid morphology of the aortic valve. Including those patients with ascending aortic dilation and/or aortic stenosis (n = 212), we analyzed the role possibly played by alpha-Tocopherol in BAV disease; considering its association with the pathophysiological characteristics of BAV and biomarkers related to inflammation, oxidative stress and endothelial damage, as well as characteristics related to alpha-Tocopherol functionality and metabolism.
RESULTS: We found that BAV patients; especially those with ascending aortic dilation; presented lower antioxidant capacity; as determined by decreased plasma levels of alpha-Tocopherol; paraoxonase 1 and high-density lipoprotein (HDL), as well as increased levels of C-reactive protein (CRP; a biomarker of inflammation) and endothelial microparticles (EMPs; an endothelial damage biomarker). By applying random forest analyses; we evaluated the significant screening capacity of alpha-Tocopherol; CRP and EMPs to classify patients depending on the morphology of the aortic valve.
DISCUSSION: Our findings support the role of decreased antioxidant capacity; increased inflammation and endothelial damage in the pathogenesis of BAV and the progression of aortic dilation. Moreover; determining the plasma levels of alpha-Tocopherol; CRP and EMPs could improve BAV diagnosis in large populations.

Citation: Martínez-Micaelo N, et al. Plasma Metabolomic Profiling Associates Bicuspid Aortic Valve Disease and Ascending Aortic Dilation with a Decrease in Antioxidant Capacity. Plasma Metabolomic Profiling Associates Bicuspid Aortic Valve Disease and Ascending Aortic Dilation with a Decrease in Antioxidant Capacity. 2020; 9:(unknown pages). doi: 10.3390/jcm9072215

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32668689/
