PMID: 32664133
Title: Different clinical courses of various radiologic findings in fibromuscular dysplasia during a 7-year follow-up: A case report.

Abstract: RATIONALES: The natural history of fibromuscular dysplasia (FMD) is unclear. Furthermore, the correlation between radiologic findings and clinical significance has not been documented. Previously, the development of new vascular symptoms was reported in a small number of patients, but some of these symptoms were from other vascular causes. New arterial lesions were rarely observed during follow-up in the previous reports.
PATIENT CONCERNS: A 40-year-old man was admitted due to dysarthria and left-sided weakness. He had developed flank pain due to bilateral renal infarction about 10 months earlier. He had no known risk factors for atherosclerosis. Initial neurological examination revealed a mild weakness and central facial palsy on the left side.
DIAGNOSES: Diffusion-weighted magnetic resonance imaging revealed a small acute infarction in the right insular cortex. Magnetic resonance angiography and digital subtraction angiography showed a severe stenosis with post-dilatation in the right internal carotid artery (ICA). There was a focal ectatic lesion in the left ICA. On the previous abdominal computed tomography angiography (CTA), there were arterial lesions suggestive of dissection in the bilateral renal arteries and a rod-shaped ectasia in the left common iliac artery (CIA). The pathological diagnosis was mixed-type FMD involving the intima and media.
INTERVENTIONS: The patient was prescribed antiplatelet agents for prevention of further ischemic events and followed up regularly.
OUTCOMES: Seven years after the initial renal infarction, the patient developed abdominal pain radiating to the back. Abdominal CTA revealed that an aortic dissection had developed in the infrarenal aorta, which was shown as normal previously. The ectasia in the left CIA and left ICA showed no interval changes during follow-up.
LESSONS: We present a patient who developed spontaneous symptomatic dissection of the bilateral renal arteries, right ICA, and abdominal aorta during 7 years of follow-up, which were caused by pathologically confirmed FMD. Besides the symptomatic multifocal dissection, the patient showed an asymptomatic multifocal ectasia on cerebral and abdominal angiographies that had not changed over 7 years.

Citation: Park S and Choi HY. Different clinical courses of various radiologic findings in fibromuscular dysplasia during a 7-year follow-up: A case report. Different clinical courses of various radiologic findings in fibromuscular dysplasia during a 7-year follow-up: A case report. 2020; 99:e21108. doi: 10.1097/MD.0000000000021108

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32664133/
