PMID: 32677521
Title: The Prevalence of Asymptomatic and Symptomatic Spinal Cord Compression on Magnetic Resonance Imaging: A Systematic Review and Meta-analysis.

Abstract: STUDY DESIGN: Systematic review and meta-analysis.
OBJECTIVES: Cervical spinal cord compression (SCC) due to degenerative changes of the spine is a frequent finding on magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). While most people remain asymptomatic, a proportion develop symptoms of degenerative cervical myelopathy (DCM). DCM is an often-progressive neurological disease that can cause quadriplegia. The epidemiology of SCC and DCM is poorly understood. We sought to estimate the prevalence of degenerative cervical SCC and DCM from cross-sectional cohorts undergoing MRI.
METHODS: We conducted a systematic review and meta-analysis of MRI reports on human subjects older than 16 years with degenerative SCC. A predetermined search strategy was used to identify relevant literature on MEDLINE. Title and abstract screenings were followed by full text screening. Data was extracted and analyzed by fixed or random-effects models.
RESULTS: The present search returned 1506 publications. Following our exclusion criteria, 19 studies were included. Subgroup analysis of 3786 individuals estimated the prevalence of asymptomatic SCC in a healthy population as 24.2% with a significantly higher prevalence of SCC in older populations compared with younger populations and American/European populations compared with Asian populations. Subgroup analysis of 1202 individuals estimated the prevalence of DCM in a healthy population as 2.3%.
CONCLUSIONS: We present the first estimates of the prevalence of asymptomatic SCC and DCM. Studies investigating the epidemiology of SCC are heterogeneous in methodology and results. These data indicate the need for more studies into the epidemiology of SCC and DCM performed with consistent methodologies.

Citation: Smith SS, et al. The Prevalence of Asymptomatic and Symptomatic Spinal Cord Compression on Magnetic Resonance Imaging: A Systematic Review and Meta-analysis. The Prevalence of Asymptomatic and Symptomatic Spinal Cord Compression on Magnetic Resonance Imaging: A Systematic Review and Meta-analysis. 2021; 11:597-607. doi: 10.1177/2192568220934496

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32677521/
