PMID: 32688138
Title: Fluid structure interaction modelling of aortic valve stenosis: Effects of valve calcification on coronary artery flow and aortic root hemodynamics.

Abstract: BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVE: Coronary artery diseases and aortic valve stenosis are two of the main causes of mortality and morbidity worldwide. Stenosis of the aortic valve develops due to calcium deposition on the aortic valve leaflets during the cardiac cycle. Clinical investigations have demonstrated that aortic valve stenosis not only affects hemodynamic parameters inside the aortic root but also has a significant influence on the coronary artery hemodynamics and leads to the initiation of coronary artery disease. The aim of this study is to investigate the effect of calcification of the aortic valve on the variation of hemodynamic parameters in the aortic root and coronary arteries in order to find potential locations for initiation of the coronary stenoses.
METHODS: Fluid structure interaction modelling methodology was used to simulate aortic valve hemodynamics in the presence of coronary artery flow. A 2-D model of the aortic valve leaflets was developed in ANSYS Fluent based on the available echocardiography images in literature. The k-ω SST turbulence model was utilised to model the turbulent flow downstream of the leaflets.
RESULTS: The effects of calcification of the aortic valve on aortic root hemodynamics including transvalvular pressure gradient, valve orifice dimeter, vorticity magnitude in the sinuses and wall shear stress on the ventricularis and fibrosa layers of the leaflets were studied. Results revealed that the transvalvular pressure gradient increases from 792 Pa (∼ 6 mmHg) for a healthy aortic valve to 2885 Pa (∼ 22 mmHg) for a severely calcified one. Furthermore, the influence of the calcification of the aortic valve leaflets on the velocity profile and the wall shear stress in the coronary arteries was investigated and used for identification of potential locations of initiation of the coronary stenoses. Obtained results show that the maximum velocity inside the coronary arteries at early diastole decreases from 1 m/s for the healthy valve to 0.45 m/s for the severely calcified case.
CONCLUSIONS: Calcification significantly decreases the wall shear stress of the coronary arteries. This reduction in the wall shear stress can be a main reason for initiation of the coronary atherosclerosis process and eventually results in coronary stenoses.

Citation: Kivi AR, et al. Fluid structure interaction modelling of aortic valve stenosis: Effects of valve calcification on coronary artery flow and aortic root hemodynamics. Fluid structure interaction modelling of aortic valve stenosis: Effects of valve calcification on coronary artery flow and aortic root hemodynamics. 2020; 196:105647. doi: 10.1016/j.cmpb.2020.105647

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32688138/
