PMID: 32684592
Title: Preoperative Clinical Features and High Pulmonary Wedge Pressure with a Discordant Pattern as Prognostic Factor in Hemodialysis Patients with Severe Aortic Valve Stenosis.

Abstract: Hemodialysis (HD) is one of the important risks for the development of cardiovascular disease, including aortic valve stenosis (AS). Although aortic valve replacement (AVR) is a beneficial treatment for AS, HD patients are known to show a high rate of mortality after AVR than non-HD patients.We retrospectively studied 109 patients who underwent AVR for severe AS, 18 of which were HD patients. Survival rate after AVR, preoperative clinical data, and surgical procedure were investigated.In preoperative clinical features, left ventricular end-diastolic diameter was larger, intraventricular septum thickness (IVST) was thicker, left ventricular mass index (LVMI) was higher, left ventricular ejection fraction was lower, E/e' was higher, and pulmonary arterial wedge pressure (PAWP) was higher in the HD group than in the non-HD group. During a follow-up period of 3.2 ± 2.3 years after AVR, patients receiving HD had a worse prognosis than those without HD treatment: the 3-year survival rate after surgery in the HD group was 36.2% and that in the non-HD group was 84.9%. With regard to prognostic factors in the whole cohort, significant differences were found in IVST, LVMI, E/e', PAWP, and HD. In patients receiving HD, abnormally high PAWP for their right atrial pressure (RAP) was observed, suggesting that PAWP and RAP were discordant, and univariate analysis revealed that high PAWP was the only predictor of mortality in HD patients after surgery.Preoperative PAWP with a discordant pattern in HD patients might be an important prognostic predictor after AVR.

Citation: Ueda M, et al. Preoperative Clinical Features and High Pulmonary Wedge Pressure with a Discordant Pattern as Prognostic Factor in Hemodialysis Patients with Severe Aortic Valve Stenosis. Preoperative Clinical Features and High Pulmonary Wedge Pressure with a Discordant Pattern as Prognostic Factor in Hemodialysis Patients with Severe Aortic Valve Stenosis. 2020; 61:720-726. doi: 10.1536/ihj.19-575

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32684592/
