PMID: 32689827
Title: Long-Term Outcomes of Laser Incision and Triamcinolone Injection for the Management of Ureteroenteric Anastomotic Strictures.

Abstract: Purpose: Benign ureteroenteric anastomotic stricture (UEAS) is a common postoperative complication after urinary diversion with an incidence of 3%-10%. Our objective is to report long-term follow-up of our technique for endoscopically managing UEAS after cystectomy. Materials and Methods: Patients with endoscopically managed benign UEAS after cystectomy were included. Intervention entailed anetegrade flexible ureteroscopy with biopsy followed by laser incision of the stricture and of periureteral and peri-ileal tissues 1 cm below and 1 cm above the stricture into fat. Triamcinolone injection was then performed, followed by balloon dilation of the incised area to 24F. Parallel Double-J ureteral stents or upside down nephrostomy tubes were placed for 6 weeks. CT scans were obtained at 3 months and 1 year after surgery, and renal ultrasound at 6 and 9 months, and then annually. Results: Twenty-one patients, and a total of 24 UEAS were treated. Urinary diversion included ileal conduit (n = 12), neobladder (n = 7), and Indiana pouch (n = 2). Twenty out of 24 strictures had no recurrence, including three patients who had bilateral disease, yielding an overall success rate of 83.3%. The remaining three patients with recurrence had evidence of stricture within 3 months. Follow-up ranged from 8 to 102 months, with a median of 30 months. Conclusions: Patients treated endoscopically for UEAS have been shown to have acceptable immediate success with less morbidity when compared with ureteral reimplantation. Our technique of laser incision, triamcinolone injection, balloon dilation, and temporary stent placement has a success rate of over 80% and is unique in that long-term data confirms the durability of this endoscopic procedure.

Citation: Katims AB, et al. Long-Term Outcomes of Laser Incision and Triamcinolone Injection for the Management of Ureteroenteric Anastomotic Strictures. Long-Term Outcomes of Laser Incision and Triamcinolone Injection for the Management of Ureteroenteric Anastomotic Strictures. 2021; 35:21-24. doi: 10.1089/end.2020.0593

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32689827/
