PMID: 32683723
Title: Successful venoplasty of superior vena cava stenosis in a patient with a total artificial heart after orthotopic heart transplantation due to primary graft failure.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: With the limited number of available suitable donor hearts resulting in plateaued numbers of heart transplantations, short- and long-term mechanical circulatory support devices, including the implantation of total artificial hearts (TAHs) are modalities that are increasingly being used as treatment options for patients with end-stage heart failure. The superior vena cava syndrome has been described in this context in various disease processes. We report successful venoplasty for superior vena cava syndrome in a patient with a TAH.
CASE PRESENTATION: A 65-year-old man with a history of nonischemic cardiomyopathy had received a left ventricular assist device, and then 2 years later, underwent orthotopic heart transplantation using the bicaval anastomosis technique. The postprocedural course was complicated by primary graft failure, resulting in the need for implantation of a TAH. About 5 months after TAH implantation, he started to develop complications such as volume retention, swelling of the upper extremities, and was diagnosed to have a superior vena cava syndrome. The patient underwent a successful venoplasty of his superior vena cava by interventional radiology with resolution of upper body edema, normalization of renal, and liver function.
CONCLUSION: Potential fatal complications caused by catheter or wire entrapment in the right-sided mechanical valve of a TAH have been reported. We describe a safe method for the treatment of superior vena cava syndrome in patients with TAH.

Citation: Phancao A, et al. Successful venoplasty of superior vena cava stenosis in a patient with a total artificial heart after orthotopic heart transplantation due to primary graft failure. Successful venoplasty of superior vena cava stenosis in a patient with a total artificial heart after orthotopic heart transplantation due to primary graft failure. 2020; 35:2847-2852. doi: 10.1111/jocs.14877

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32683723/
