PMID: 32683084
Title: Treatment of complex complications after choledochal cyst resection by multiple minimal invasive therapies: A case report.

Abstract: INTRODUCTION: Choledochal cyst is a rare benign congenital dilation of the bile duct, which causes recurring disturbing symptoms without totally resection. Nonetheless, postoperative complications are still a common issue. A step up management for patients with complex complications is required to address the problem.
CASE PRESENTATION: We report a 10-year-old child who suffered complex postoperative complications after choledochal cyst resection at the age of 5, including cholangitis, bilioenteric stenosis and cystolithiasis in remnant intrapancreatic duct cyst. She occasionally endured episodes of epigastric pain, fever and jaundice afterwards. As the symptoms and recurrent rate were worsen over time, the patient was admitted multiple times and various approaches (balloon dilation, percutaneous transhepatic biliary drainage, endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography and laparoscopic surgery) were applied. Afterwards, patient recovered and discharged without any complications.
CONCLUSION: Our case presented sophisticated complications relating to choledochal cyst that were successfully treated by a combination of modern minimal invasive techniques. Despite operated by experienced surgeons, the post-op complications are still a concerned problem due to difficult laparoscopic techniques, injuries of hepatic artery, infection and risk of malignancy. We suggested that minimal-invasive procedures should be considered first with the aim of relieving symptoms, biliary drainage and preparing for the reoperation.

Citation: Nguyen HV, et al. Treatment of complex complications after choledochal cyst resection by multiple minimal invasive therapies: A case report. Treatment of complex complications after choledochal cyst resection by multiple minimal invasive therapies: A case report. 2020; 73:130-133. doi: 10.1016/j.ijscr.2020.06.104

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32683084/
