PMID: 32698994
Title: Other imaging techniques: Double-contrast barium enema, endoscopic ultrasonography, multidetector CT enema, and computed tomography colonoscopy.

Abstract: Double-contrast barium enema (DCBE), transrectal endoscopic ultrasonography (REU), multidetector computerized tomography enema (MDCT-e), and computed tomography colonoscopy (CTC) have been successfully used for the diagnosis of bowel endometriosis. DCBE provides a complete overview of the entire colon and allows detecting cecal nodules. The accuracy of DCBE is operator dependent and, thus, it may have low specificity. It does not allow identifying the cause of the mass effect. DCBE requires the administration of barium and exposure to radiation. REU precisely estimates the distance between the rectosigmoid nodule and the anal verge. However, it allows investigating only the distal part of rectosigmoid, it misses anterior pelvic lesions, and it has poor sensitivity for the diagnosis of endometriomas. MDCT-e is accurate and reproducible in diagnosing intestinal endometriosis and in assessing its characteristics: the largest diameter of the nodule, the distance between the distal part of the nodule and the anal verge, and depth of infiltration of endometriosis in the intestinal wall. MDCT-e requires the administration of iodinated contrast medium (CM) and the exposure to radiations. CTC has good performance in the diagnosis of rectosigmoid endometriosis. It allows estimating the degree of intestinal stenosis CTC, and the distance between the intestinal endometriotic nodule and the anal verge. It requires exposure to radiations, and it may require the administration of an iodinated CM.

Citation: Biscaldi E, et al. Other imaging techniques: Double-contrast barium enema, endoscopic ultrasonography, multidetector CT enema, and computed tomography colonoscopy. Other imaging techniques: Double-contrast barium enema, endoscopic ultrasonography, multidetector CT enema, and computed tomography colonoscopy. 2021; 71:64-77. doi: 10.1016/j.bpobgyn.2020.05.011

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32698994/
