PMID: 32699731
Title: Jejunal-Ileal Bypass and its Complications: Case Report and Review of the Literature.

Abstract: Herein, we describe an interesting case of a patient who underwent a jejunal-ileal bypass (JIB). She presented to the hospital with gastrointestinal bleeding after which her hospital course was complicated by electrolyte abnormalities. She was a 76-year-old Caucasian female with a past medical history of hypertension, type II diabetes, atrial fibrillation on warfarin, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) treated with 3 liters of oxygen at home, obstructive sleep apnea, and morbid obesity, with history of an unknown type of bariatric procedure done in the 1970s. Her upper endoscopy showed a normal esophagus, stomach, and duodenum despite her history of bariatric surgery. Her colonoscopy revealed stenotic terminal ileum and an incidental colonic anastomosis at 35 cm from the anal verge with spot tattoo ink of unknown significance. Also noted were moderate internal hemorrhoids and large external hemorrhoids which were likely the source of her bleeding. Post endoscopy she had marked derangement in electrolytes, specifically hypocalcemia, hypomagnesemia, and hypo-phosphatemia.  JIB was first popularized in the 1960s for the treatment of obesity. There are two variations of the procedure, colloquially known as the Scott bypass and the Payne bypass. Our patient underwent the Scott JIB. The relatively longer intestinal tract combined with her ileal stenosis may explain her 50 years of relatively stable adaptation. It is imperative that treating physicians have a keen understanding of anatomy and physiology to adequately care for the long-term needs of these patients.

Citation: Khan A, et al. Jejunal-Ileal Bypass and its Complications: Case Report and Review of the Literature. Jejunal-Ileal Bypass and its Complications: Case Report and Review of the Literature. 2020; 12:e9276. doi: 10.7759/cureus.9276

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32699731/
