PMID: 32691535
Title: The assessment of the balance system in cranial artery stenosis.

Abstract: INTRODUCTION: Vertigo and balance disorders are a significant clinical problem, especially in elderly patients. The narrowing of cranial vessels may be asymptomatic or produce neurological symptoms. Very often nonspecific signs of ischemia occur, such as headache, vertigo, or dizziness.
OBJECTIVE: The objective of the study was to assess the effect of carotid and vertebral arteries stenosis on the function of the equilibrium organ on the basis of electronystagmography and posturography.
MATERIAL: The study was conducted in 63 patients, presenting with carotid and vertebral arteries stenosis. The control group consisted of 32 healthy persons.
METHODS: All patients were subjected to precise audiological and otoneurological diagnostic examinations. Prior to being qualified for the study, patients were subjected to the assessment of arteries by means of Doppler ultrasonography. The vestibular organ was assessed by means of physical examination as well as by electronystagmography and posturography testing.
RESULTS AND CONCLUSIONS: The study revealed statistically significant reduction in the results of the equilibrium organ assessments in patients with carotid and vertebral arteries sclerosis as compared to the control group. Abnormal ENG records in the study group patients were observed particularly in the pendulum test, optokinetic test, and the assessment of positional nystagmus, possibly indicating disturbances within the central part of the equilibrium system. Disturbed blood flow in arteries had also an important impact on spinovestibular reflexes and resulted in disturbed postural stability control. On the basis of the conducted studies, it is concluded that diagnostic examinations for carotid and vertebral artery stenosis should be performed in patients with equilibrium system disorders.

Citation: Dorobisz K, et al. The assessment of the balance system in cranial artery stenosis. The assessment of the balance system in cranial artery stenosis. 2020; 10:e01695. doi: 10.1002/brb3.1695

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32691535/
