PMID: 32703123
Title: Drug-coated balloon angioplasty for the treatment of edge stenosis after self-expanding covered stent placement for superficial femoral artery occlusive disease.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Edge stenoses are the predominant limitation of self-expanding covered stent treatment of superficial femoral artery (SFA) occlusive disease, necessitating reinterventions. Angioplasty of an edge stenosis is associated with a high recurrence rate. Drug-coated balloon (DCB) treatment of edge stenoses might improve outcomes by decreasing the incidence of restenosis.
PURPOSE: The aim of this study was to evaluate the outcomes of using a DCB for the treatment of edge stenoses after self-expanding covered stent placement for SFA occlusive disease.
METHOD: We performed a retrospective analysis of patients treated with a DCB for edge stenoses after self-expanding covered stent placement. The primary endpoint was primary patency at one year. The secondary endpoints included procedure-related complications, secondary patency, and freedom from target lesion revascularization (TLR).
RESULTS: A total of 21 patients with 28 edge stenoses were included. The time from primary treatment to treatment of the edge stenosis was 19 months (interquartile range (IQR) 8; 52 months). Primary patency and assisted primary patency at one year were 66.7% with a secondary patency of 90.9%. Freedom from TLR was 86.1%, and freedom from clinically driven TLR was 89.4%. Four patients presented with a hemodynamically significant restenosis, and three of those patients had an occlusion. Median time to failure was six months (IQR 3.5; 7.0 months), and median time to occlusion was four months (IQR 3.0; 6.0 months).
CONCLUSION: The treatment of edge stenoses using a DCB is associated with a safe one-year outcome; however, this has to be confirmed in larger prospective studies. The continuous surveillance of patients is indicated.

Citation: van Wijck IP, et al. Drug-coated balloon angioplasty for the treatment of edge stenosis after self-expanding covered stent placement for superficial femoral artery occlusive disease. Drug-coated balloon angioplasty for the treatment of edge stenosis after self-expanding covered stent placement for superficial femoral artery occlusive disease. 2021; 29:108-115. doi: 10.1177/1708538120943319

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32703123/
