PMID: 32707588
Title: [Eosinophilic Granulomatosis with Polyangiitis with Pulmonary and Cardiac Involvement].

Abstract: A 62-year-old patient with bronchial asthma and chronic rhinosinusitis underwent inguinal hernia surgery. After the operation, sudden circulatory arrest occurred, requiring cardiopulmonary resuscitation. Coronary angiography revealed a 99 % proximal stenosis of right coronary artery (RCA) with unsuspicious and smooth coronary vessel walls. In the further course, several similar events occurred, but without pathological findings in the coronary angiography. Initially, echocardiography showed slightly reduced left ventricular ejection fraction of 45 %. Chest radiography revealed bilateral pulmonary infiltrates, and white blood cell count showed severe eosinophilia (37 %). Serological antibody testing including ANA, ENA and c-/p-ANCA was negative. Myeloproliferative pathologies were excluded by bone marrow puncture. The patient suffered from emerging dyspnea, weakness, and ongoing weight loss. A methylprednisolone pulse of 250 mg/d for 3 days remained without significant effect, so that the patient was eventually referred to our university hospital due to ongoing clinical deterioration. On admission, the patient suffered from weakness, progressive muscular atrophy, and dyspnea on exertion. Physical examination revealed a right-sided peroneal paralysis. Bronchial lavage detected severe eosinophil alveolitis (37 %), and laboratory findings showed elevated cardiac enzymes and NT-proBNP (Troponin-T > 700 ng/l, NT-proBNP > 10.000 ng/l). Echocardiography revealed a dramatic deterioration of cardiac function (LVEF 16 %). Interdisciplinary discussion between pulmonologists and cardiologists lead to the diagnosis of ANCA-negative eosinophilic granulomatosis with polyangiitis (EGPA) with pulmonary and cardiac involvement. Initiation of immunosuppressive therapy with methylprednisolone 1000 mg/d for 3 days followed by cyclophosphamide therapy (6 pulses, administered every 4 weeks) led to substantial symptomatic improvement, complete regression of pulmonary infiltrates and marked recovery of cardiac function (LVEF 47 %). CONCLUSION:  Serological detection of elevated ANCAs is not necessary for diagnosis of EGPA. Only 30 - 70 % of patients are positive for these, particularly if neurological and/or renal rather than cardiac and/or pulmonary involvement is present. This may be a pitfall in establishing the correct diagnosis. Induction therapy with cyclophosphamide is the preferred treatment for steroid-refractory EGPA with life-threatening organ involvement.

Citation: Kamp JC, et al. [Eosinophilic Granulomatosis with Polyangiitis with Pulmonary and Cardiac Involvement]. [Eosinophilic Granulomatosis with Polyangiitis with Pulmonary and Cardiac Involvement]. 2021; 75:33-38. doi: 10.1055/a-1209-4292

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32707588/
