PMID: 32702846
Title: Outcome of lumbar lateral recess stenosis with percutaneous endoscopic transforaminal decompression in patients 65 years of age or older and in younger patients.

Abstract: Lateral recess stenosis is a common pathology causing clinical syndromes in the elderly population, and there is some concern regarding the number of comorbidities that can occur when performing surgery for this condition in the elderly. However, little research has focused on the issues related to older age, and limited data is available to help the clinician counsel elderly patients undergoing percutaneous endoscopic transforaminal decompression. The present study aimed to explore the safety and efficacy of percutaneous endoscopic transforaminal decompression for lumbar degenerative disease in elderly patients with lumbar lateral recess stenosis and to determine whether age and comorbidity affect the outcome and complication rate.We identified 117 patients in our patient database who underwent percutaneous endoscopic transforaminal decompression for single-level lumbar lateral recess stenosis. Data regarding the Oswestry Disability Index and visual analog scale for back and leg pain were collected preoperatively, postoperatively, and at the last follow-up. Other data, including preoperative comorbidities, operation time, and intraoperative and postoperative complications, were recorded.The average follow-up period was 29.9 ± 5.5 months, with a mean age of 69.8 ± 5.4 years in elderly patients (group A) and 50.4 ± 6.4 years in younger patients (group B). Group A had a higher percentage of comorbidity than group B (83.9% vs 18.0%, P < .001). Both visual analog scale scores for leg pain and Oswestry Disability Index were significantly improved in the 2 groups, and no difference was found between the groups regarding both parameters (P >.05). The elderly patients had the same high rate of favorable outcomes as group B (P > .05). Moreover, there was no difference in surgical complications, recurrence, and neurologic deficit recovery rate between both groups. No major complications or perioperative deaths occurred in both groups.The present study demonstrates that percutaneous endoscopic transforaminal decompression for lateral recess stenosis in elderly patients may be a reasonable treatment associated with substantial benefit.

Citation: Li X, et al. Outcome of lumbar lateral recess stenosis with percutaneous endoscopic transforaminal decompression in patients 65 years of age or older and in younger patients. Outcome of lumbar lateral recess stenosis with percutaneous endoscopic transforaminal decompression in patients 65 years of age or older and in younger patients. 2020; 99:e21049. doi: 10.1097/MD.0000000000021049

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32702846/
