PMID: 32704256
Title: Health-related quality of life after vascular surgery and endovascular treatment in subjects with critical limb ischemia.

Abstract: BACKGROUND & OBJECTIVE: Revascularization of the target vessel and restoration of distal flow is critical not only to reduce mortality and morbidity but also improve health-related quality of life (HRQoL) in patients with critical limb ischemia. However, data concerning the impact of surgical bypass and percutaneous transluminal angioplasty (PTA) on HRQoL is limited. This study aimed to compare the impact of surgical bypass and PTA on HRQoL in subjects undergoing superficial femoral artery (SFA) or popliteal artery revascularization.
METHODS: Seventy-one subjects who underwent successful revascularization of the SFA or popliteal artery either with surgical revascularization or PTA were enrolled in this study. Three months after revascularization, all subjects underwent ankle-brachial index (ABI) measurement, 6-minute walking test and completed the Nottingham Health Profile (NHP) questionnaire. The NHP score differences (measured at the post-procedural 3rd month) between subjects undergoing surgical or endovascular (PTA) revascularization subjects was the primary outcome measure of the study.
RESULTS: Both groups experienced significant improvements in ABI and 6-minute walking distance at post-procedure three months. NHP total scores of Part I and Part II at post-procedural six months were similar in the two groups. However, social isolation [77.98 (0 - 85) vs. 22.53 (0 - 100), p=0.002] and physical abilities [78.7 (30.31 - 87.7) vs. 54.47 (0 - 100), P=0.014] domain scores of the surgical revascularization group were significantly higher than that of the endovascular treatment group.
CONCLUSION: This study shows that total scores obtained from the NHP questionnaire applied three months after revascularization of SFA stenosis are similar in subjects undergoing surgical revascularization or PTA. However, the social isolation and physical abilities domains of the NHP are significantly higher in subjects receiving surgical revascularization compared to those receiving PTA.

Citation: Khalil E and Ozcan S. Health-related quality of life after vascular surgery and endovascular treatment in subjects with critical limb ischemia. Health-related quality of life after vascular surgery and endovascular treatment in subjects with critical limb ischemia. 2020; 36:877-883. doi: 10.12669/pjms.36.5.2680

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32704256/
