PMID: 32710001
Title: Pyroptosis and ferroptosis induced by mixed lineage kinase 3 (MLK3) signaling in cardiomyocytes are essential for myocardial fibrosis in response to pressure overload.

Abstract: Chronic heart failure (CHF) is the final outcome of many cardiovascular diseases, and is a severe health issue faced by the elderly population. Mixed lineage kinase 3 (MLK3), a member of MAP3K family, is associated with aging, inflammation, oxidative stress, and related diseases, such as CHF. MLK3 has also been reported to play an important role in protecting against cardiomyocyte injury; however, its function in myocardial fibrosis is unknown. To investigate the role of MLK3 in myocardial fibrosis, we inhibited the expression of MLK3, and examined cardiac function and remodeling in TAC mice. In addition, we assessed the expression of MLK3 protein in ventricular cells and its downstream associated protein. We found that MLK3 mainly regulates NF-κB/NLRP3 signaling pathway-mediated inflammation and that pyroptosis causes myocardial fibrosis in the early stages of CHF. Similarly, MLK3 mainly regulates the JNK/p53 signaling pathway-mediated oxidative stress and that ferroptosis causes myocardial fibrosis in the advanced stages of CHF. We also found that promoting the expression of miR-351 can inhibit the expression of MLK3, and significantly improve cardiac function in mice subjected to TAC. These results suggest the pyroptosis and ferroptosis induced by MLK3 signaling in cardiomyocytes are essential for adverse myocardial fibrosis, in response to pressure overload. Furthermore, miR-351, which has a protective effect on ventricular remodeling in heart failure caused by pressure overload, may be a key target for the regulation of MLK3.

Citation: Wang J, et al. Pyroptosis and ferroptosis induced by mixed lineage kinase 3 (MLK3) signaling in cardiomyocytes are essential for myocardial fibrosis in response to pressure overload. Pyroptosis and ferroptosis induced by mixed lineage kinase 3 (MLK3) signaling in cardiomyocytes are essential for myocardial fibrosis in response to pressure overload. 2020; 11:574. doi: 10.1038/s41419-020-02777-3

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32710001/
