PMID: 32715906
Title: Feasibility of routine ultrasound-guided percutaneous transluminal angioplasty in the treatment of native arteriovenous fistula dysfunction.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Stenosis is the main cause of arteriovenous fistula failure and is due to neointimal hyperplasia. Percutaneous transluminal angioplasty is the gold standard for patients with vascular access stenosis. The aim of the study was to evaluate the efficacy and safety of ultrasound-guided percutaneous transluminal angioplasty in the treatment of native arteriovenous fistula venous stenosis.
METHODS: The need for intervention was determined by physical examination and duplex ultrasound in 162 patients. All patients with failing or not maturing arteriovenous fistula were treated in the outpatient setting under ultrasound guidance. Procedural success was assessed with repeated post-procedural ultrasound examinations. All procedures were performed under local anesthesia by a single nephrologist and were performed in a single vascular laboratory, while follow-up ultrasound was performed in the dialysis unit of destination.
RESULTS: Early technical success was obtained in 95.6% of cases (154 of 162). Complications occurred in 22 patients (13.5%) with no major complication requiring surgical or fluoroscopic endovascular intervention. Primary patency at 6 and 12 months was 84% and 69.8%, respectively. Risk factors for arteriovenous fistula failure/secondary percutaneous transluminal angioplasty were vascular access low blood flow rate and vintage, as well as the need for thrombolysis during the first percutaneous transluminal angioplasty.
CONCLUSION: Ultrasound-guided percutaneous transluminal angioplasty is a valuable tool to treat vascular access stenosis.

Citation: Granata A, et al. Feasibility of routine ultrasound-guided percutaneous transluminal angioplasty in the treatment of native arteriovenous fistula dysfunction. Feasibility of routine ultrasound-guided percutaneous transluminal angioplasty in the treatment of native arteriovenous fistula dysfunction. 2021; 22:739-743. doi: 10.1177/1129729820943076

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32715906/
