PMID: 32712633
Title: Mid-Term Outcomes of Patients with Central Venous Occlusive Disease Undergoing Surveillance Venography and Intervention.

Abstract: INTRODUCTION: To evaluate the mid-term outcomes of regular surveillance venography with or without percutaneous transluminal angioplasty (PTA) in haemodialysis patients presenting with central venous occlusive disease.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: A single-centre retrospective analysis of haemodialysis patients who presented with central vein occlusion (CVO) and central vein stenosis (CVS) between January 2008 and December 2011 was performed. CVO and significant CVS were defined as 100% and >50% luminal narrowing, respectively. Upon successful angioplasty on first presentation, patients were followed up with regular surveillance venography within 3-6 months of the intervention and were re-treated when a significant stenosis or occlusion was demonstrated. Data on patient's demographics, comorbidities, presenting symptoms, type of upper limb dialysis access, lesion characteristics and complications were collected. Technical success, primary patency and primary assisted patency were analysed.
RESULTS: Thirty-five patients with CVO and 77 patients with CVS were enrolled. The technical success of initial PTA was 77% and 73% for the CVO and CVS groups, respectively. The primary patency at 3 months was 65% and 55% for the CVO group and CVS group, respectively (P = 0.32). The primary assisted patency at 1 year was 88% and 99% for the CVO group and CVS group, respectively (P = 0.009). At 2 years, the primary assisted patency were 77% and 90%, respectively (P = 0.07). There was significant difference in the overall primary assisted patency (P = 0.048) between the CVO and CVS groups.
CONCLUSION: CVOs are more difficult to treat than CVS. High primary assisted patency rates can be achieved with surveillance venography, albeit at the expense of increased number of interventions. Further cost effectiveness studies need to be performed to study the true benefit of our surveillance programme.

Citation: Wong HL, et al. Mid-Term Outcomes of Patients with Central Venous Occlusive Disease Undergoing Surveillance Venography and Intervention. Mid-Term Outcomes of Patients with Central Venous Occlusive Disease Undergoing Surveillance Venography and Intervention. 2020; 49:360-366.

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32712633/
