PMID: 32711458
Title: Quantification of the severity of outflow stenosis of hemodialysis fistulas with a pulse- and thrill-based scoring system.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Hyper-pulsatility of hemodialysis arteriovenous fistula (AVF) is the basic physical examination finding when there is outflow stenosis. The arm elevation test can also be utilized to detect outflow stenosis. If there is no significant outflow stenosis, the AVF should collapse, at least partially, because of the effect of gravity when the AVF-bearing arm is elevated to a level above that of the heart. However, if there is significant outflow stenosis, the portion of the AVF downstream of the stenosis will collapse, while the portion upstream of the stenosis will remain distended (Clin J Am Soc Nephro 8:1220-7, 2013). In our daily practice, when performing the arm elevation test, we not only observe the collapsibility of the access outflow but also palpate the outflow to identify a background thrill that sometimes disappears with the arm at rest, only to reappear when the arm is elevated. If there is no thrill upon arm elevation, we assume that the outflow stenosis is severe and refer to this condition as "physical examination significant outflow stenosis" (PESOS). The aim of this study is to characterize PESOS using percentage stenosis and Doppler flow parameters.
METHODS: We performed a case-control study using data collected prospectively between June 2019 and December 2019. A pulse- and thrill-based score system was developed to assess the severity of AVF outflow stenosis. We recorded the outflow scores and Doppler measurements performed in 84 patients with mature fistulas over a 6-month period. Angiograms were reviewed to determine the severity of outflow stenosis, which was assessed by calculation of percentage stenosis.
RESULTS: Receiver operating characteristic analysis showed that a cutoff value of ≥74.44% stenosis discriminated PESOS from other AVF outflow scores, with an area under the curve of 0.9011. PESOS diagnosed cases with ≥75% outflow stenosis in an AVF, with a sensitivity of 80.39%, a specificity of 78.79%, a positive predictive value of 85.42%, and a negative predictive value of 72.22%.
CONCLUSIONS: PESOS can be used to diagnose ≥75% outflow stenosis in an AVF, with or without a significant collateral vein, and its diagnostic accuracy is high. The use of PESOS as an indicator for treatment implies that physical examination may represent a useful surveillance tool.

Citation: Chen MC, et al. Quantification of the severity of outflow stenosis of hemodialysis fistulas with a pulse- and thrill-based scoring system. Quantification of the severity of outflow stenosis of hemodialysis fistulas with a pulse- and thrill-based scoring system. 2020; 21:304. doi: 10.1186/s12882-020-01968-6

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32711458/
