PMID: 32723557
Title: Impact of Loop Diuretic Use on Outcomes Following Transcatheter Aortic Valve Implantation.

Abstract: The use of LDT may signify significant hemodynamic changes and left ventricular remodeling in severe aortic stenosis (AS). Therefore, we sought to determine whether loop diuretic therapy (LDT) is associated with adverse outcomes following transcatheter aortic valve implantation (TAVI) in patients with severe symptomatic AS. Subjects undergoing TAVI at a single institution from June 2008 to December 2017 were analyzed. LDT doses were normalized to oral furosemide daily equivalents. All outcomes were adjudicated using VARC2 criteria. Descriptive statistics, multivariate logistic regression, and propensity score matching were used. Of the 804 subjects studied, 48.3% were on pre-TAVI LDT with a mean dose of 51.1 mg furosemide dose-equivalents. Subjects on LDT were higher risk, frail patients with more co-morbidities including chronic kidney disease, coronary artery disease requiring prior bypass grafting, peripheral arterial disease, atrial fibrillation or flutter, and diabetes with more severe heart failure symptoms. Those on LDT also had worse left ventricular systolic function, lower transvalvular gradients, and markers of adverse left ventricular remodeling, including increased left ventricular mass index and higher rates of concentric and eccentric hypertrophy. On propensity-score matching, death within one year post-TAVI was borderline significantly higher in the pre-LDT as compared with no-LDT group (16.9% vs 10.4 %, p = 0.068). In conclusion, use of pre-TAVI LDT for severe symptomatic AS is associated with a trend towards worse 1-year mortality and is a marker of high-risk, frail individuals with advanced left ventricular remodeling.

Citation: Cantey EP, et al. Impact of Loop Diuretic Use on Outcomes Following Transcatheter Aortic Valve Implantation. Impact of Loop Diuretic Use on Outcomes Following Transcatheter Aortic Valve Implantation. 2020; 131:67-73. doi: 10.1016/j.amjcard.2020.06.033

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32723557/
