PMID: 32726784
Title: Cortical and Internal Watershed Infarcts Might Be Key Signs for Predicting Neurological Deterioration in Patients with Internal Carotid Artery Occlusion with Mild Symptoms.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Treatment for acute ischemic stroke due to large vessel occlusion (LVO) with mild symptoms is under discussion. Although most patients have good outcomes, some patients deteriorate and have unfavorable results. Imaging findings that predict the prognosis of LVO with mild symptoms are needed to identify patients who require treatment. In this study, we focused on watershed infarctions (WSIs), because this clinical phenomenon quite sensitively reflects changes in cerebral blood flow. The purpose of this study was to assess positive rates of WSI on MRI findings in patients with internal carotid artery (ICA) occlusion, and compare WSI-positive rates between patients divided according to their clinical course.
METHODS: We retrospectively collected data of 1,531 patients who presented with acute ischemic stroke between June 2006 and July 2019. Among them, we chose symptomatic ICA occlusion patients with a past history of atrial fibrillation who were treated conservatively. We divided these patients into two groups, those with maintenance or improvement in their NIHSS score after hospitalization, and those whose NIHSS score worsened. We compared WSI-positive rates between these two groups.
RESULTS: Thirty-seven of the 1,531 patients were included in this study. Of them, total NIHSS score was maintained or improved in 8 patients (group A), 3 of whom (37.5%) had internal watershed infarctions (IWIs). In group B, consisting of patients whose NIHSS score worsened by >2 at 7 days from symptom onset, 24 (82.8%) had IWIs. Group A thus had statistically lower IWI positivity rates than group B (p = 0.02). Three patients (37.5%) in group A had cortical watershed infarctions (CWIs), while 27 patients in group B (93.1%) had CWIs. Group A thus had a significantly lower CWI positivity rate than group B (p = 0.002).
CONCLUSION: In patients with mildly symptomatic ICA occlusion, CWIs and IWIs might be key signs for predicting neurological deterioration after hospitalization.

Citation: Amano Y, et al. Cortical and Internal Watershed Infarcts Might Be Key Signs for Predicting Neurological Deterioration in Patients with Internal Carotid Artery Occlusion with Mild Symptoms. Cortical and Internal Watershed Infarcts Might Be Key Signs for Predicting Neurological Deterioration in Patients with Internal Carotid Artery Occlusion with Mild Symptoms. 2020; 10:76-83. doi: 10.1159/000508090

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32726784/
