PMID: 32730967
Title: Diffuse Cerebral Vasospasm After Removal of a Posterior Fossa Hemangioblastoma in a 62-Year-Old Woman.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: The development of diffuse cerebral vasospasm after the removal of a brain tumor is extremely rare. We report a case of cerebral vasospasm after the removal of a posterior fossa hemangioblastoma.
CASE DESCRIPTION: A 62-year-old woman presented with a 1-month history of vertigo and nausea. Neurologic examination revealed that she was alert, with no paresis, and a mild left-sided cerebellar ataxia. Contrast-enhanced magnetic resonance imaging showed a cystic lesion with a strongly enhancing nodule, measuring 20 × 26 mm in diameter, in the cerebellar dorsal vermis. Angiography revealed that the lesion had feeding arteries from the left posterior inferior cerebellar artery. A diagnosis of hemangioblastoma was suspected and surgery was performed. On the first postoperative day, paresis of the right-sided extremities occurred. Diffusion-weighted imaging showed a high-intensity area in the medial side of the left frontal lobe. Magnetic resonance angiography indicated diffuse cerebrovascular stenosis. Considering these findings to be caused by vasospasm, we started the treatment used for vasospasm secondary to aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage. Magnetic resonance angiography on the 13th postoperative day revealed an improvement in the cerebrovascular stenosis. In this case, it appears that the cause of vasospasm was intraoperative spillage of the contents of the cyst.
CONCLUSIONS: Although the occurrence of diffuse cerebral vasospasm after the removal of brain tumors in the posterior fossa is rare, this complication should be noted as a potential postoperative complication after tumor removal; this should lead to earlier diagnosis and treatment and a potentially better prognosis.

Citation: Kinoshita Y, et al. Diffuse Cerebral Vasospasm After Removal of a Posterior Fossa Hemangioblastoma in a 62-Year-Old Woman. Diffuse Cerebral Vasospasm After Removal of a Posterior Fossa Hemangioblastoma in a 62-Year-Old Woman. 2020; 143:97-101. doi: 10.1016/j.wneu.2020.07.137

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32730967/
