PMID: 32731861
Title: Covered metallic stent for the treatment of malignant esophageal fistula combined with stricture.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Esophageal fistula and stricture is rare but life-threatening complication for esophageal cancer. The management of esophageal fistula and stricture remains challenging. We aimed to determine the safety, feasibility and efficacy of covered metallic stent and three tubes placement for the management of esophageal fistula and stricture.
METHODS: Between May 2012 and March 2018, all patients with esophageal fistula and stricture were treated using three tubes or covered metallic stent placement. Patients in group A received covered stents and three tubes placement. Patients in group B only received three tubes placement. Continue abscess drainage and nutritional support was performed after procedure. Three tubes or esophageal stents were removed once esophageal fistula heals. The related medical records were retrospectively assessed.
RESULTS: Thirty-seven consecutive patients with esophageal fistula and stricture were enrolled, including 26 patients in group A and 11 patients in group B. Stent placement procedure was technically successful in 25 patients (96.2%). A total of 42 covered stents were inserted. Seventeen esophageal stents were successfully removed from 10 patients. The median retention duration was 3.3 months and 3.4 months for stent and abscess drainage tubes, respectively. One perioperative death due to massive hemorrhage was observed 21 days after stent placement. The abscess cavity was decreased or disappeared in 17 cases and 4 cases in group A and group B, respectively. During follow up, patients in group A still showed a significant better condition of normal diet than that in group B (p < 0.05). Fourteen patients died of cancer recurrence, 3 patients died of massive digestive bleeding and 2 patients died of severe pulmonary infection. The median survivals were 14.8 months and 13.2 months for group A and group B, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: Covered metallic stent placement is safe, feasible and efficacious for treatment of esophageal fistula and stricture, with a better condition of normal diet than patients only received three tubes placement.

Citation: Bi Y, et al. Covered metallic stent for the treatment of malignant esophageal fistula combined with stricture. Covered metallic stent for the treatment of malignant esophageal fistula combined with stricture. 2020; 20:248. doi: 10.1186/s12876-020-01398-6

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32731861/
