PMID: 32747619
Title: Inferior Vena Cava Constriction After Liver Transplantation Is a Severe Complication Requiring Individually Adapted Treatment: Report of a Single-Center Experience.

Abstract: BACKGROUND Reports on vena cava occlusion after liver transplantation (LT) are rare, but this finding represents a severe complication in the early postoperative period. In the context of the complex presentation of a patient after LT, symptoms are often misinterpreted and can be subtle. MATERIAL AND METHODS In our cohort of 138 LTs performed between 2014 and 2017 at our University's Transplantation Department, 117 transplantations were valid for further analysis after exclusion of pediatric transplantations and transplants with primary non-function grafts. In 101 cases (73%), patients received a deceased-donor full-size organ. Living-donor LT was performed in 8 patients (6.4%) and 8 patients (6.4%) received a split graft. We report on 6 patients who had inferior vena cava (IVC) occlusion and summarize the treatment choices. RESULTS In our series, patients with positive findings (age 38-70 years) received an orthotopic full-size deceased-donor graft with end-to-end IVC anastomosis. In the subsequent period, imaging revealing IVC occlusion was done on a follow-up basis (n=2), due to dyspnea (n=1), and for progressive ascites (n=2). In 3 cases, a thrombus was found. We give detailed information on our treatment options from interventional treatment to transcardial thrombus removal and anastomosis augmentation. CONCLUSIONS IVC constriction and subsequent thrombosis are severe complications after LT that require individually adapted treatment in specialized centers. Since patients often present with subclinical symptoms, vascular diagnosis should be performed early to detect caval anastomosis pathologies. Despite regular ultrasonography, we favor CT and cavography for subsequent quantification. We also review the literature on IVC occlusion after LT.

Citation: Gundlach JP, et al. Inferior Vena Cava Constriction After Liver Transplantation Is a Severe Complication Requiring Individually Adapted Treatment: Report of a Single-Center Experience. Inferior Vena Cava Constriction After Liver Transplantation Is a Severe Complication Requiring Individually Adapted Treatment: Report of a Single-Center Experience. 2020; 25:e925194. doi: 10.12659/AOT.925194

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32747619/
