PMID: 32742839
Title: Kyphosis Correction in Patients Undergoing a Four-Level Anterior Cervical Discectomy and Fusion.

Abstract: Introduction Cervical kyphotic deformity can be quite debilitating. Most patients present with neck pain, but they can also present with radiculopathy, myelopathy, altered vertical gaze, swallowing problems, and even cosmetic issues from the severe kyphotic deformity. After failing conservative management, surgery remains the only option for halting symptom progression. Surgical options for cervical kyphosis have included anterior-only approaches, posterior-only approaches, or 360- and 540-degree reconstructions. This paper addresses the correction of cervical kyphotic deformity via an anterior-only approach consisting of a four-level anterior cervical discectomy and fusion (ACDF). Methods We interrogated our procedure log system and the keyword "anterior cervical discectomy and fusion (ACDF)" was typed into the search bar. All patients with an ACDF for the past five years were reviewed and patients with a four-level ACDF were selected. Chart review was performed and patients presenting with multi-level cervical stenosis with kyphosis were included in the study. Pre- and post-surgery images were reviewed, and the degrees of pre-operative kyphosis and post-operative lordosis were measured. Results  Our search produced 20 patients. All the patients had a diagnosis of multi-level cervical stenosis with or without myelopathy and were all symptomatic. Pre-operative kyphosis ranged from 2.3 to 35 (mean 11.5) degrees, and post-operative lordosis ranged from 2 to 38 (mean 16) degrees. All the patients had varying degrees of kyphosis correction post-surgery which ranged from 6 to 44 (mean 27) degrees. Significant improvement or complete resolution of symptoms post-operatively occurred in all patients. Conclusion  Four-level ACDF in carefully selected patients can be used to correct cervical alignment in patients presenting with symptomatic multi-level cervical stenosis with kyphosis.

Citation: Ebot J, et al. Kyphosis Correction in Patients Undergoing a Four-Level Anterior Cervical Discectomy and Fusion. Kyphosis Correction in Patients Undergoing a Four-Level Anterior Cervical Discectomy and Fusion. 2020; 12:e8826. doi: 10.7759/cureus.8826

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32742839/
