PMID: 32746156
Title: Tomographic Field Free Line Magnetic Particle Imaging With an Open-Sided Scanner Configuration.

Abstract: Superparamagnetic iron oxide nanoparticles (SPIONs) have a high potential for use in clinical diagnostic and therapeutic applications. In vivo distribution of SPIONs can be imaged with the Magnetic Particle Imaging (MPI) method, which uses an inhomogeneous magnetic field with a field free region (FFR). The spatial distribution of the SPIONs are obtained by scanning the FFR inside the field of view (FOV) and sensing SPION related magnetic field disturbance. MPI magnets can be configured to generate a field free point (FFP), or a field free line (FFL) to scan the FOV. FFL scanners provide more sensitivity, and are also more suitable for scanning large regions compared to FFP scanners. Interventional procedures will benefit greatly from FFL based open magnet configurations. Here, we present the first open-sided MPI system that can electronically scan the FOV with an FFL to generate tomographic MPI images. Magnetic field measurements show that FFL can be rotated electronically in the horizontal plane and translated in three dimensions to generate 3D MPI images. Using the developed scanner, we obtained 2D images of dot and cylinder phantoms with varying iron concentrations between 11 [Formula: see text]/ml and 770 [Formula: see text]/ml. We used a measurement based system matrix image reconstruction method that minimizes l<sub>1</sub> -norm and total variation in the images. Furthermore, we present 2D imaging results of two 4 mm-diameter vessel phantoms with 0% and 75% stenosis. The experiments show high quality imaging results with a resolution down to 2.5 mm for a relatively low gradient field of 0.6 T/m.

Citation: Top CB and Gungor A. Tomographic Field Free Line Magnetic Particle Imaging With an Open-Sided Scanner Configuration. Tomographic Field Free Line Magnetic Particle Imaging With an Open-Sided Scanner Configuration. 2020; 39:4164-4173. doi: 10.1109/TMI.2020.3014197

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32746156/
