PMID: 32756159
Title: Comparison of outcome of transcatheter aortic valve implantation in patients with advanced age: A systematic review and meta-analysis.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Transcatheter aortic valve implantation (TAVI) is an effective treatment to aortic stenosis in patients with advanced age. However, age is recognized as one of the most important risk factors. The aim of our study is to compare the outcome of TAVI between octogenarian patients and young patients.
METHODS: Randomized controlled trials, cohort studies and propensity score matching studies will be included in our systematic review and meta-analysis to evaluate clinical outcome in octogenarian patients who undergo TAVI. PubMed, EMBASE, MEDLINE, Cochrane Library and Web of Science will be searched using a comprehensive strategy. The related conference proceedings and reference lists of the included studies will also be checked to identify additional studies. Retrieved records, extract information and assess the risk of bias will be screened by two reviewers independently. STATA software will be used to conduct data synthesis. There is no requirement of ethical approval and informed consent.
RESULTS: This study will eventually be published in a peer reviewed journal in the form of a scientific paper.
CONCLUSION: This study will provide a comprehensive review of the available evidence for the treatment of aortic stenosis in octogenarian patients underwent TAVI. We hope it will provide a relatively comprehensive reference for clinical practice and future relevant clinical trials.
PROSPERO REGISTRATION NUMBER: CRD42020155189.
STUDY PROTOCOL REGISTRY: The protocol has been registered in PROSPERO, which is an International Prospective Register of Systematic Reviews. The registration number is CRD42020155189.
ETHICS AND DISSEMINATION: Ethics approval and patient consent are not required as this study is a systematic review and meta-analysis.

Citation: Zhu S, et al. Comparison of outcome of transcatheter aortic valve implantation in patients with advanced age: A systematic review and meta-analysis. Comparison of outcome of transcatheter aortic valve implantation in patients with advanced age: A systematic review and meta-analysis. 2020; 99:e21443. doi: 10.1097/MD.0000000000021443

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32756159/
