PMID: 32753575
Title: Utility of modified vascular corrosion casting technique in the diagnosis of fetal ductus arteriosus abnormalities.

Abstract: The anatomy of ductus arteriosus (DA) can be varied in different congenital heart defects (CHDs), and it is difficult to fully discover the DA and other associated cardiac anomalies by prenatal ultrasound. This study was aimed to use the modified vascular corrosion casting technique to prepare fetal cardiovascular casts with DA anomalies, assess the casting effectiveness in evaluating the great vessels of the fetal heart and investigate the utility of cardiovascular casting for the demonstration of fetal DA abnormalities. This retrospective study enrolled fourteen fetuses (23 to 28+2 gestational weeks) with severe CHDs diagnosed by prenatal echocardiography and casting technique from January 2013 to July 2019. The sonographic features of DAs were carefully observed and other associated cardiovascular anomalies were also evaluated during the screening. The architectures of DAs and the whole cardiovascular system were observed and analyzed, and then the cast findings were compared with prenatal ultrasonic results. In fourteen cases, 18 ductal abnormities were indicated by prenatal echocardiography in fourteen cases, while 25 were revealed by casting. Cast findings included 4 cases of ductal stenosis, 1 case of ductal dilation, 6 cases of ductal circuity, 3 cases of right-sided ductus, 5 cases of anomalous ductal connection, 1 case of bilateral ductus and 5 cases of absent ductus. Cast findings consisted with ultrasound in 10 ductal abnormalities, revealed additional 15 ductal abnormalities miss-diagnosed by sonography, and corrected 6 abnormalities misdiagnosed prenatally. Meanwhile, 3 ductal abnormalities (reversed flow) could not be demonstrated by casts but only by ultrasound. Cast models can visually display the anatomical characteristics of ductus arteriosus, and could be successfully used in the demonstration of ductus abnormalities in fetuses with severe CHDs. Comparing with ultrasound, casting technique has its own superiority in exhibiting ductus abnormalities, especially in certain types such as course, origin and absence abnormalities of ductus.

Citation: Wang Y, et al. Utility of modified vascular corrosion casting technique in the diagnosis of fetal ductus arteriosus abnormalities. Utility of modified vascular corrosion casting technique in the diagnosis of fetal ductus arteriosus abnormalities. 2020; 10:13158. doi: 10.1038/s41598-020-69694-5

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32753575/
