PMID: 32769112
Title: Utility of CT venography in monitoring stent patency in idiopathic intracranial hypertension: retrospective single-center study.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Cerebral venous sinus stenting is an established treatment for patients with idiopathic intracranial hypertension (IIH), refractory to medical management and with stenotic venous sinus on conventional cerebral venography. Currently, there are no clear guidelines on optimal noninvasive imaging modality for routine post-stenting follow-up. We investigated diagnostic yield of CT venography (CTV) for evaluation of stent patency.
METHODS: We reviewed our clinical database of patients with a diagnosis of IIH, who underwent stenting of stenotic transverse or transverse/sigmoid sinus junction. Patients who had follow-up CTVs after more than 30 days were included in the final study group. All CTVs were reviewed by two readers for in-stent thrombosis, extrinsic stent compression, juxta-stent stenosis, and new contralateral venous sinus stenosis. Inter-observer agreement and association of stent patency with clinical outcomes (headache and papilledema) were assessed.
RESULTS: In all 36 included patients with 38 cerebral venograms for stenting, follow-up CTVs demonstrated adequate opacifications of the venous sinuses and stents for confident evaluation for in-stent thrombosis, extrinsic stent compression, juxta-stent stenosis, and new contralateral venous sinus stenosis, with inter-observer agreement coefficient of 0.7, 1.0, 0.8, and 1.0 respectively. Association between abnormal CTV and higher rates of persistent headache and lower rates of headache improvement/resolution was statistically significant (P-value of 0.01).
CONCLUSION: CTV is a reliable noninvasive imaging modality for evaluation of cerebral venous sinuses and stent patency following treatment of idiopathic intracranial hypertension with venous sinus stenting and could be used as a routine follow-up study.

Citation: Shlapak DP, et al. Utility of CT venography in monitoring stent patency in idiopathic intracranial hypertension: retrospective single-center study. Utility of CT venography in monitoring stent patency in idiopathic intracranial hypertension: retrospective single-center study. 2021; 13:478-482. doi: 10.1136/neurintsurg-2020-016456

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32769112/
