PMID: 32771996
Title: Influence of Valve Type and Antiplatelet Regimen on Platelet Reactivity After TAVI: Subanalysis of the REAC-TAVI Trial.

Abstract: OBJECTIVES: Ticagrelor has proven more effective than clopidogrel at attaining a maintained suppression of high platelet reactivity (HPR) in aortic stenosis patients undergoing transcatheter aortic valve implantation (TAVI). This study aims to assess the influence of implanted valve type on the degree of platelet reactivity (PR) after TAVI.
METHODS: This study is a prespecified analysis of REAC-TAVI, a prospective, multicenter study that included patients on dual-antiplatelet therapy with aspirin and clopidogrel before TAVI. Patients with HPR (n = 48) were randomized to aspirin and clopidogrel or aspirin and ticagrelor for 3 months, while those without HPR (n = 20) were continued on aspirin and clopidogrel. PR was measured 6 hours, 24 hours, 5 days, 30 days, and 90 days after TAVI with VerifyNow assay. Bioprosthetic valves were classified as balloon-expandable valve (BEV), self-expandable valve (SEV), or other.
RESULTS: Sixty-eight patients comprising 32 BEVs, 28 SEVs, and 8 other valves were included. Devices were larger and postdilation was more frequent in the SEV group. Follow-up PR was lower in patients treated with ticagrelor vs those treated with clopidogrel at all time points after TAVI, including patients without baseline HPR (P<.001). PR after TAVI was similar in the three groups. Major cardiovascular adverse events, stroke, and hemorrhagic complications were comparable across the different bioprosthesis groups at 4-month follow-up.
CONCLUSIONS: The effect of valve type on PR after TAVI is similar across the spectrum of most transcatheter valves. In our sample, ticagrelor achieved a faster and more effective reduction in PR than clopidogrel in patients with HPR undergoing TAVI, irrespective of valve type.

Citation: Trejo-Velasco B, et al. Influence of Valve Type and Antiplatelet Regimen on Platelet Reactivity After TAVI: Subanalysis of the REAC-TAVI Trial. Influence of Valve Type and Antiplatelet Regimen on Platelet Reactivity After TAVI: Subanalysis of the REAC-TAVI Trial. 2020; 32:446-452.

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32771996/
