PMID: 32778718
Title: Hand grip strength as a surrogate marker for postoperative changes in spinopelvic alignment in patients with lumbar spinal stenosis.

Abstract: There are a few studies on the postoperative changes in sagittal alignment and corresponding factors, including hand grip strength (HGS) and muscle performance tests for lumbar spinal stenosis (LSS). Thus, we aimed to determine whether HGS can be a surrogate marker for global sagittal alignment changes after decompression with fusion surgery for LSS. This retrospective observational study included 91 patients who underwent spine fusion surgery for LSS. Radiological spinopelvic parameters, including sagittal vertical axis (SVA), lumbar lordosis (LL), pelvic tilt (PT), pelvic incidence (PI), global tilt (GT), and T1 pelvic angle (T1PA), were analyzed preoperatively and 1 year after posterior decompression and fusion surgery. To assess muscle performance, the 6-m walk (SMT), timed up and go (TUGT), and sit-to-stand (STS) tests were conducted. The relationship between HGS and postoperative SVA was examined through multiple linear regression analysis. Additionally, the relationship between HGS and preoperative/postoperative radiologic spinopelvic parameters and muscle performance test results was analyzed through Pearson's correlation. HGS was significantly correlated with age, preoperative and postoperative SVA, and the muscle performance tests. Furthermore, HGS was a factor that can significantly influence postoperative SVA changes in multiple linear regression analyses. Therefore, HGS may be a good predictor of postoperative SVA change.

Citation: Kwon JW, et al. Hand grip strength as a surrogate marker for postoperative changes in spinopelvic alignment in patients with lumbar spinal stenosis. Hand grip strength as a surrogate marker for postoperative changes in spinopelvic alignment in patients with lumbar spinal stenosis. 2020; 10:13432. doi: 10.1038/s41598-020-70357-8

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32778718/
