PMID: 32777398
Title: Any Instrument in a Surgeon's Hand can be Fatal: Unusual Iliac Artery Injury in Lumbar Spinal Deformity Surgery.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Vascular complications, which we rarely encounter during lumbosacral stabilization surgeries, can be life-threatening if they are not treated quickly. These arterial injuries occur during screw insertion. Our presentation with the common iliac artery injury during the decortication process in transverse processes with the "pedicle awl" will be the first case in the literature to our knowledge.
CASE DESCRIPTION: Lumbosacral decompression and stabilization surgery was performed in a 57-year-old patient with L1-S1 spinal stenosis and scoliosis. After the stabilization process was completed, while decorticating the transverse processes with the pedicle awl, the tool fell to the paravertebral region, and then active arterial hemorrhage was observed at the surgical site. Hemostasis was achieved in the surgical field, but a rapid progressive drop was observed in the patient's blood pressure. The surgery was quickly terminated, and the patient was turned to the supine position. Vascular surgeons opened the abdomen with a midline laparotomy, and approximately 2600 mL hematoma was evacuated from the retroperitoneum. The 5-mm defect in the left common iliac artery was repaired by primary suturing. The patient had no problem in postoperative follow-up and was discharged on the 10th postoperative day.
CONCLUSIONS: In these complications that we rarely encounter in lumbosacral stabilization surgeries, perioperative findings should be well evaluated, and rapid intervention should be made in cases in which vascular injury is considered. One must remember that every tool used during surgery can be dangerous even in an experienced hand.

Citation: Koban O, et al. Any Instrument in a Surgeon's Hand can be Fatal: Unusual Iliac Artery Injury in Lumbar Spinal Deformity Surgery. Any Instrument in a Surgeon's Hand can be Fatal: Unusual Iliac Artery Injury in Lumbar Spinal Deformity Surgery. 2020; 143:276-279. doi: 10.1016/j.wneu.2020.07.217

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32777398/
