PMID: 32779939
Title: Septal Perfoplasty for Management of Symptomatic Nasal Septal Perforation: An Alternative to Surgical Closure.

Abstract: Importance: Symptomatic septal perforations are often difficult to manage and can have a significant impact on patient quality of life. Available surgical techniques for repair have demonstrated a varying rate of success, presenting a need for reliable interventions targeting symptom control. Objectives: To describe the modified surgical technique here termed septal perfoplasty. To demonstrate that creation of favorable septal perforation characteristics is effective in managing symptoms and improving patient quality of life. Design, Setting, and Participants: A retrospective review of the medical record was performed of patients who underwent the procedure of interest between July 1, 2006 and October 1, 2019 at Vanderbilt University Medical Center. All patients with symptomatic septal perforation who underwent septal perfoplasty within the timeframe reviewed were included. Septal perfoplasty was standardly performed in combination with turbinate reduction in all cases. This was combined with other indicated procedures for chronic sinusitis, repair of vestibular stenosis or nasal deformity. Main Outcomes and Measures: Creation of a well-mucosalized septal perforation, combined with patient-reported acceptable symptom control, was the primary outcome. Secondary outcomes include time to resolution, duration of follow-up, postsurgical complications, and need for further intervention. Results: Twenty patients (70% female; mean [range] age, 45.8 [15-72] years) underwent septal perfoplasty over the course of 13 years. The most common etiology of perforation was trauma (40%), presenting symptom was crusting (95%), and size of perforation repaired was large (60%). Mean follow-up was 37.6 months (range, 1-153 months). Overall, favorable perforation characteristics were created in 95% of cases by the first postoperative appointment. Acceptable symptomatic control was achieved in 18 out of 20 patients (90%), with a median time to improvement of 66 days. Eight patients required additional surgery to address chronic sinusitis or vestibular stenosis. Two patients experienced postoperative infections, treated conservatively with antibiotics. Conclusion and Relevance: Septal perfoplasty is a safe, simple, and effective method for management of symptomatic nasal septal perforation, which provides an alternative to more complicated interventions with comparable rates of symptomatic resolution. This procedure should particularly be considered for patients in which difficult repair is anticipated.

Citation: Davis SJ, et al. Septal Perfoplasty for Management of Symptomatic Nasal Septal Perforation: An Alternative to Surgical Closure. Septal Perfoplasty for Management of Symptomatic Nasal Septal Perforation: An Alternative to Surgical Closure. 2021; 23:103-109. doi: 10.1089/fpsam.2020.0155

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32779939/
