PMID: 32777386
Title: Preparing Patients for Sexual Dysfunction After Radiation for Anorectal Cancers: A Systematic Review.

Abstract: PURPOSE: Successful multimodality treatment of anorectal cancers has led to increased numbers of survivors who experience permanent, life-changing side effects of treatment. Little is known about sexual dysfunction (SD) in this population. The etiology of SD after anorectal cancer treatment is complex and multifactorial. However, pelvic radiation plays a significant negative role in anatomic, hormonal, and physiological aspects of sexual function.
METHODS AND MATERIALS: A systematic literature review was conducted according to the Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic Reviews and Meta-Analysis Protocols. Information was organized by key concepts useful for patient education, including (1) rates of SD after pelvic radiation for rectal cancer, (2) rates of SD after pelvic radiation for anal cancer, (3) mechanisms of SD and methods to reduce rates of SD, and (4) issues and opportunities related to patient education and discussion of SD after pelvic radiation.
RESULTS: SD after pelvic radiation for anorectal cancers is common in both men and women. Higher radiation doses may increase the risk for vaginal stenosis; however, it is unclear whether there are similar dose-volume relationships for men. Vaginal dilators and advanced radiation techniques can reduce the radiation dose to sexual organs at risk. Improvement is needed regarding counseling and education of patients about SD.
CONCLUSIONS: This review provides information from previously published studies that clinicians may use in their discussions with patients embarking on pelvic radiation for anorectal cancers. More modern, standardized, and complete data are needed to quantify the risk of SD after treatment. Some methods of sexual toxicity reduction have been studied, but further study into interventions aimed at treating postradiation sexual function are needed.

Citation: Wallington DG and Holliday EB. Preparing Patients for Sexual Dysfunction After Radiation for Anorectal Cancers: A Systematic Review. Preparing Patients for Sexual Dysfunction After Radiation for Anorectal Cancers: A Systematic Review. 2021; 11:193-201. doi: 10.1016/j.prro.2020.07.007

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32777386/
