PMID: 32771385
Title: Is Venoplasty an Alternative to Lead Extraction for Patients With Venous Obstruction?

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Indications for cardiovascular implantable electronic devices (CIEDs) have increased over time. Patients may require lead replacement or implantation due to lead failure or need for device upgrade. Venous obstruction is a common finding in these patients and often poses difficulties for operators. Venoplasty as an alternative to lead extraction emerges as an important intervention in the treatment of selected patients, particularly with a view to minimising procedural risk.
METHODS: Nine (9) patients with CIED related venous occlusion were treated with venoplasty at our institution between April 2006 and October 2019. Six (6) of nine patients were initially referred to our institution for consideration of transvenous lead extraction in the setting of venous occlusion. These patients are the subjects of the case series. Patient demographics, indication for venoplasty and procedural outcomes were examined.
RESULTS: We present a series of six patients in whom venoplasty has been performed at our centre as an alternative to lead extraction. Device and patient characteristics have been examined as well as radiation exposure and fluoroscopy time. The median age of our cohort was 64.5 years (range: 37-81 years) and 67% were female. Luminal calibre was improved in all patients allowing lead replacement, device upgrade or relief of symptoms. Procedural complications were not observed, and all patients remained free of symptoms related to venous occlusion at 3-month follow-up.
CONCLUSIONS: We present venoplasty as a viable alternative to lead extraction in high risk patients or in those who favour a less invasive approach.

Citation: Gomes S, et al. Is Venoplasty an Alternative to Lead Extraction for Patients With Venous Obstruction?. Is Venoplasty an Alternative to Lead Extraction for Patients With Venous Obstruction?. 2021; 30:419-422. doi: 10.1016/j.hlc.2020.06.010

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32771385/
