PMID: 32773792
Title: [Initial clinical experience and follow-up outcomes of treatment for ureteroileal anastomotic stricture with Allium coated metal ureteral stent].

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: To summarize the initial clinical experience and follow-up results of the treatment for ureteroileal anastomotic stricture after radical cystectomy with Allium coated metal ureteral stent.
METHODS: From September 2018 to September 2019, 8 patients with ureteroileal anastomotic stricture after radical cystectomy underwent Allium ureteral stent insertion in Peking University People's Hospital and People's Hospital of Daxing District. The preoperative renal pelvis width under ultrasound was collected to evaluate the postoperative hydronephrosis, creatinine and urea nitrogen (BUN) before and after surgery, perioperative infection, and stent-related complications. The serum creatinine and BUN, renal pelvis width under ultrasound, urography and abdominal plain film (KUB) were reviewed at the end of 1, 3, and 6 months and annually postoperatively to observe the stent position and morphology. The long-term stent patency rate, complication rate, renal function and hydronephrosis were followed up and analyzed. The t-test or rank-sum test was used to compare the measurement data of the matched sample from the preoperative to the last follow-up.
RESULTS: In the study, 6 cases (7 sides) were ureteral ileal conduit stricture, and 2 cases (3 sides) ureteral orthotopic neobladder stricture. Before surgery, 5 patients underwent long-term indwelling of a single J ureteral stent, with an average indwelling time of (20.6±8.8) months and an average replacement frequency of (3.6±1.3) months/time. The mean width of renal pelvis was (26.5±9.1) mm on preoperative renal ultrasonography. Among them, 6 patients were successfully indwelled with Allium coated metal ureteral stent by retrograde approach, and 2 patients by combination of double-endoscopy and ante-retrograde approach. No surgery-related complications during perioperative period were observed. The mean follow-up period was 9.8 months and Allium stent and ureter remained unobstructed in all the patients at the last follow-up without replacement or removal. Compared with preoperative data, the mean width of renal pelvis and mean blood urea nitrogen (BUN) in the last follow-up period were significantly reduced [(26.5±9.1) mm vs. (13.4±2.5) mm, P=0.008; (11.6±2.3) mmol/L vs. (10.2±2.2) mmol/L, P=0.017], however, there were no significant differences in the average serum creatinine or hemoglobin (P&gt;0.05). Ureteroileal anastomotic re-stricture and other stent-related complications were not observed in all the patients by antegrade urography.
CONCLUSION: Allium coated metal ureteral stent could be used for the treatment for ureteroileal anastomotic stricture, which could maintain relatively long-term patency rate and protect renal function. The indwelling time was longer and it could improve quality of life of patients.

Citation: Dong WM, et al. [Initial clinical experience and follow-up outcomes of treatment for ureteroileal anastomotic stricture with Allium coated metal ureteral stent]. [Initial clinical experience and follow-up outcomes of treatment for ureteroileal anastomotic stricture with Allium coated metal ureteral stent]. 2020; 52:637-641. doi: 10.19723/j.issn.1671-167X.2020.04.007

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32773792/
