PMID: 32789068
Title: Low Back Pain Among Weightlifting Adolescents and Young Adults.

Abstract: Background Weightlifting is a common type of sports training that develops the strength and size of skeletal muscles. Low back pain (LBP) is one of its most common complaints. This sport has become prevalent among adolescents and young adults as they work to enhance their physique and body image. The aim of our study is to explore the nature and cause of LBP in weightlifting adolescents and young adults in an aim of extrapolating proper preventive measures. Methods Participants were patients who engaged in weightlifting sports and had presented to our clinic with nonspecific LBP. They were examined and asked to rate and localize their pain. Back positioning during weightlifting techniques along with other exercise habits was explored. Patients with congenital or systemic diseases and fractures were excluded from our study. Results A total of 93 patients presented with LBP (age range: 16-26 years), all of whom partook in weightlifting (N=93). Localized pain was found in 43 patients (46%). Pain radiating to the left side was found in 31 patients (33%), while pain radiating to the right was found in 19 patients (21%). LBP localized at the level of L4-L5 was found in 44 cases (47%), while that localized at L5-S1 was found in 43 cases (46%). Only six cases localized pain at the level of L3-L4 (7%). A total of 23 cases required surgery (25%), while others were managed conservatively. All the participants (100%) reported their pain to be initiated during or after weightlifting maneuvers. Psychological symptoms were found in 13 cases (19%). Factors that helped relieve the pain included surgery, swimming, and wearing a back brace. Conclusion Weightlifting is a sport that utilizes heavy weights to engage the muscles in the body, and consequently, predisposes athletes to LBP. Using excessive weights and performing improper techniques puts the back in a compromising position that may lead to injury. Medical and sports personnel should raise awareness on the biomechanical properties of the lumbar spine and the correct spine-protective posture during training to help prevent these injuries in the future.

Citation: Fares MY, et al. Low Back Pain Among Weightlifting Adolescents and Young Adults. Low Back Pain Among Weightlifting Adolescents and Young Adults. 2020; 12:e9127. doi: 10.7759/cureus.9127

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32789068/
