PMID: 32789667
Title: Retrospective analysis of the clinical effects of endoscopic mucosal dissection on treatment of early esophagogastric precancerous lesions.

Abstract: INTRODUCTION: The purpose of this study was to conduct a retrospective study about the clinical effects of endoscopic mucosal dissection on the treatment of early esophagogastric precancerous lesions.
METHODS: A total of 132 patients with early esophagogastric precancerous lesions who were diagnosed and treated with concurrent surgery in our hospital from January 2018 to December 2019 were included in this retrospective study. Patients were divided into endoscopic mucosal resection (EMR) group (n = 58) and endoscopic submucosal dissection (ESD) group (n = 74) according to different surgical methods. The data in the two groups were compared and analyzed in terms of surgical indicators, treatment status and incidence of postoperative complications.
RESULTS: There were statistically significant differences between the two groups in the whole block cutting rate, fractional cutting rate and complete cutting rate (P < 0.05). The mean operation time of ESD group was significantly longer than that of EMR group (P < 0.05). There were no significant differences in the intraoperative bleeding rate, blood loss, average specimen area, length of hospital stay and treatment cost between the two groups (P > 0.05). The incidence and recurrence of postoperative complications, including bleeding, perforation and stenosis in the two groups, were observed within 1 year of postoperative follow-up. The incidence of complications in ESD group was slightly higher than that in EMR group, and the local recurrence rate in ESD group was lower than that in EMR group (P > 0.05).
CONCLUSION: ESD is an alternative surgical treatment for patients with early esophagogastric precancerous lesions.

Citation: Wang L, et al. Retrospective analysis of the clinical effects of endoscopic mucosal dissection on treatment of early esophagogastric precancerous lesions. Retrospective analysis of the clinical effects of endoscopic mucosal dissection on treatment of early esophagogastric precancerous lesions. 2021; 23:731-737. doi: 10.1007/s12094-020-02462-z

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32789667/
