PMID: 32790158
Title: Midterm outcomes after the rescue THV-in-THV procedure: Insights from the multicenter prospective OCEAN-TAVI registry.

Abstract: OBJECTIVES: To confirm whether the rescue transcatheter heart valve in the transcatheter heart valve (THV-in-THV) procedure is effective and feasible, we aimed to assess the midterm outcomes following rescue THV-in-THV procedures. The trends in the usage of the rescue THV-in-THV procedure at the time of transcatheter aortic valve implantation (TAVI) have also been explored.
BACKGROUND: Midterm outcomes of the rescue THV-in-THV procedure have been poorly defined, though it is popular as an effective method to bail-out some complications in TAVI.
METHODS: We reviewed data from the Optimized transCathEter vAlvular iNtervention-Transcatheter Aortic Valve Implantation (OCEAN-TAVI) registry and compared the outcomes of TAVI with rescue THV-in-THV and TAVI without rescue THV-in-THV. We also examined the annual rates of rescue THV-in-THV procedures in all the TAVI procedures between 2013 and 2017.
RESULTS: Among 2,588 patients who underwent TAVI, 26 patients have required rescue THV-in-THV for valve malposition (n = 23) or severe transvalvular regurgitation because of stuck THV leaflets (n = 3). Three cases needed an open conversion, and two died in the hospital. The rates of new permanent pacemaker implantation, acute kidney injury, and stroke were higher in the THV-in-THV group. A two-year cumulative survival and echocardiographic outcomes succeeding rescue THV-in-THV procedure were comparable to non-THV-in-THV cases. The rate of rescue THV-in-THV procedure lessened from 2.6% in 2013 to 0.6% in 2017.
CONCLUSIONS: The rescue THV-in-THV procedure is an effective and feasible option for THV malpositioning and stuck valve. It has given a comparable survival and a stable valve function over midterm observation periods.

Citation: Hibino M, et al. Midterm outcomes after the rescue THV-in-THV procedure: Insights from the multicenter prospective OCEAN-TAVI registry. Midterm outcomes after the rescue THV-in-THV procedure: Insights from the multicenter prospective OCEAN-TAVI registry. 2021; 97:701-711. doi: 10.1002/ccd.29175

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32790158/
