PMID: 32790221
Title: Clinical relevance of adding intravascular ultrasound to coronary angiography for the diagnosis of extrinsic left main coronary artery compression by a pulmonary artery aneurysm in pulmonary hypertension.

Abstract: OBJECTIVES: We sought to assess the clinical value of adding intravascular ultrasound (IVUS) evaluation to coronary angiography (CA) to guide extrinsic left main coronary artery (LMCA) compression diagnosis and treatment in pulmonary hypertension (PH).
BACKGROUND: LMCA compression due to a pulmonary artery aneurysm (PAA) is a severe complication of PH. Although guidelines encourage the use of IVUS for LMCA disease evaluation, it has hardly been used in this scenario.
METHODS: We analyzed morbimortality of type 1 and 4 PH patients with clinically suspected LMCA compression by a PAA between 2010 and 2018 in a reference unit. LMCA compression was prospectively assessed with CA ± IVUS. Angiographic-LMCA compression was considered conclusive when LMCA stenosis&gt;50% was present in four predetermined projections; inconclusive, when LMCA stenosis&gt;50% was present in &lt;4 projections and negative if no stenosis&gt;50% was present. Patients with conclusive and inconclusive CA underwent IVUS. IVUS-LMCA compression was defined as systolic minimum lumen area &lt; 6 mm2 .
RESULTS: LMCA compression was suspected in 23/796 patients (3%). CA was conclusive for compression in 7(30.5%), inconclusive in 9(39%), and negative in 7(30.5%). IVUS confirmed LMCA compression in 6/7(86%) patients with conclusive CA and in 2/9(22%) with inconclusive CA. Patients fulfilling IVUS criteria for LMCA compression underwent stent implantation. At 20 months follow-up a composite end-point of death, stent restenosis/thrombosis, or lung transplant was reported in three patients (13%).
CONCLUSIONS: CA can misdiagnose LMCA extrinsic compression. IVUS discriminates better whether significant compression by a PAA exists or not, avoiding unnecessary LMCA stenting. Patients treated following this strategy show a low rate of major clinical events at 20 months follow-up.

Citation: Velázquez Martín M, et al. Clinical relevance of adding intravascular ultrasound to coronary angiography for the diagnosis of extrinsic left main coronary artery compression by a pulmonary artery aneurysm in pulmonary hypertension. Clinical relevance of adding intravascular ultrasound to coronary angiography for the diagnosis of extrinsic left main coronary artery compression by a pulmonary artery aneurysm in pulmonary hypertension. 2021; 98:691-700. doi: 10.1002/ccd.29194

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32790221/
