PMID: 32795648
Title: Same Admission Hybrid Treatment of Primary Upper Extremity Deep Venous Thrombosis with Thrombolysis, Transaxillary Thoracic Outlet Decompression, and Immediate Endovascular Evaluation.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Multiple algorithms exist for treating acute primary upper extremity deep venous thrombosis (pUEDVT) caused by venous thoracic outlet syndrome (VTOS). In this case series, we present the results of our dedicated same admission treatment algorithm.
METHODS: All patients between January 2015 and December 2019 with an established acute upper extremity deep venous thrombosis (symptoms <14 days) caused by VTOS were treated according to an algorithm consisting of same admission thrombolysis, transaxillary thoracic outlet decompression (TA-TOD) with extensive venolysis, and venography. If a residual stenosis of the subclavian vein was identified on venography, including by means of low-pressure diagnostic balloon inflation, correction by percutaneous transluminal angioplasty (PTA) was performed. The thoracic outlet syndrome disability scale, the Dutch language version of the disabilities of the arm, shoulder, and hand, and the VEINES-quality of life (VEINES-QOL/VEINES-symptoms) questionnaires were collected during follow-up.
RESULTS: In total, 10 patients were treated for acute pUEDVT. After successful thrombolysis (100%) and TA-TOD, immediate venography showed residual stenosis of the subclavian vein in 8 of 10 patients (80%). Low-pressure dilatation of a balloon suited to the geometry of the axillosubclavian vein showed significant tapering in all cases (10/10) after which a formal venous PTA was performed. No stents were used. Mean time to discharge was 6.4 days. All patients were free of symptoms at a mean follow-up period of 34.4 months. Eight of the 10 patients completed follow-up questionnaires and reported a mean thoracic outlet syndrome disability scale of 0.6, mean disabilities of the arm, shoulder, and hand score of 4.2, and a median VEINES-Symptoms of 55.23 (IQR, 12.13), and VEINES-QOL of 55.29 (IQR, 15.42).
CONCLUSIONS: A same admission treatment algorithm for acute pUEDVT in patients with VTOS including thrombolysis, TA-TOD with extensive venolysis, and immediate venography with PTA is effective with promising intermediate results.

Citation: Pesser N, et al. Same Admission Hybrid Treatment of Primary Upper Extremity Deep Venous Thrombosis with Thrombolysis, Transaxillary Thoracic Outlet Decompression, and Immediate Endovascular Evaluation. Same Admission Hybrid Treatment of Primary Upper Extremity Deep Venous Thrombosis with Thrombolysis, Transaxillary Thoracic Outlet Decompression, and Immediate Endovascular Evaluation. 2021; 71:249-256. doi: 10.1016/j.avsg.2020.07.052

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32795648/
