PMID: 32793515
Title: Alterations of Gut Microbiome in Tibetan Patients With Coronary Heart Disease.

Abstract: Coronary heart disease (CHD) is closely related to gut microbiota, which may be significantly affected by ethnicity and the environment. Knowledge regarding the gut microbiome of Tibetan CHD patients living in the Qinghai-Tibet Plateau is very limited. In this study, we characterized the physiological parameters and gut microbiota from 23 healthy Tibetans (HT), 18 CHD patients, and 12 patients with non-stenosis coronary heart disease (NCHD). We analyzed the alterations of the gut microbiome in CHD patients and investigated the relationship between these alterations and the pathological indicators. We found no changes in trimethylamine N-oxide, however, a significant increase in lipopolysaccharides and white blood cells, and a decrease in high-density lipoprotein were observed in the blood of CHD patients, compared to that in the HT group. The gut microbiota of the NCHD group had a significantly higher Shannon index than that of the HT group. Adonis analysis showed that both microbial compositions and functions of the three groups were significantly separated. The Dialister genus was significantly lower and Blautia, Desulfovibrio, and Succinivibrio were significantly higher in abundance in CHD patients compared with the HT group, and the changes were significantly correlated with physiological indexes, such as increased lipopolysaccharides. Moreover, enrichment of genes decreased in four pathways of amino acid metabolism, such as arginine biosynthesis and histidine metabolism, although two lipid metabolism pathways, including fatty acid degradation and arachidonic acid metabolism, increased in the CHD group. Additionally, occupation and a family history of CHD were shown to be risk factors and affected the gut microbiota in Tibetans. Our study will provide insights into the understanding of CHD, leading to better diagnosis and treatment of Tibetan patients.

Citation: Liu F, et al. Alterations of Gut Microbiome in Tibetan Patients With Coronary Heart Disease. Alterations of Gut Microbiome in Tibetan Patients With Coronary Heart Disease. 2020; 10:373. doi: 10.3389/fcimb.2020.00373

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32793515/
