PMID: 32807602
Title: The Mitral Coaptation to Ventricular Septal Space: Two- and Three-Dimensional Transesophageal Echocardiographic Assessment.

Abstract: OBJECTIVES: To assess the dimensions and changes in the CSEPT (space between the ventricular septum and mitral coaptation point) before and after cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB) and to compare patients with and without aortic valve stenosis (AS) undergoing cardiac surgery.
DESIGN: Retrospective review of intraoperative transesophageal echocardiographic examinations.
SETTING: Single academic medical center.
PARTICIPANTS: The study comprised 91 elective cardiac surgical patients-30 with AS scheduled for aortic valve replacement and 61 without AS (non-AS).
INTERVENTIONS: Two- and 3-dimensional (2D and 3D) analysis of the CSEPT before and after CPB.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Assessment of the CSEPT distances and areas was performed using 2D and 3D imaging before and after CPB. Two-dimensional measures of CSEPT distances were performed using midesophageal 5-chamber and long-axis windows. Three-dimensional measures were performed offline using multiplanar reconstruction. The CSEPT space was smaller after CPB (p < 0.01). Before and after CPB, the midesophageal 5-chamber and long-axis windows were similar to each other, and both were larger than the pre-CPB 3D CSEPT distance. Patients with AS had smaller before and after CPB distances and areas compared with non-AS patients (p < 0.05). The change in CSEPT area in AS patients was 24%.
CONCLUSIONS: The CSEPT space is smaller after CPB and more so for patients with AS undergoing aortic valve replacement. Two-dimensional CEPT distances vary compared with 3D CSEPT distances. Additional study using Doppler analysis will elucidate the added value of 3D assessment of the CSEPT space.

Citation: Maslow A, et al. The Mitral Coaptation to Ventricular Septal Space: Two- and Three-Dimensional Transesophageal Echocardiographic Assessment. The Mitral Coaptation to Ventricular Septal Space: Two- and Three-Dimensional Transesophageal Echocardiographic Assessment. 2021; 35:187-196. doi: 10.1053/j.jvca.2020.07.061

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32807602/
