PMID: 32804348
Title: Magnetic compression anastomosis is effective in treating stenosis after esophageal cancer surgery: a case report.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Esophagostomy is important in the treatment of esophageal cancer. However, esophagectomy has a higher risk of postoperative complications. Treatment for complications is often difficult, and in some cases, oral intake is no longer possible. Recently, magnetic compression anastomosis (MCA) was developed; it is a relatively safe method of anastomosis that does not require surgery in patients with stricture, obstruction, or dehiscence of the anastomosis after surgery.
CASE PRESENTATION: The patient was a 76-year-old Japanese man. He underwent esophagectomy with a three-field dissection for esophageal cancer. A cervical esophagostomy and chest drainage were performed for necrosis of the gastric tube. Following infection control, colon interposition was performed. However, after the operation, the colon necrotized and formed an abscess. Drainage controlled the infection, but the colon was completely obstructed. The patient was referred to our hospital to restore oral ingestion. Contrast studies showed that the length of the occlusion was 10 mm. The reconstruction was examined; reanastomosis by surgery was judged to be a high risk, so the strategy of anastomosis by MCA was adopted. In the operation, the anterior chest was opened to expose the colon, and a magnet was inserted directly into the blind end of the colon. The magnet was guided to the blind end of the esophagus using an oral endoscope. Two weeks after MCA, a contrast study confirmed the passage of the contrast agent from the esophagus to the colon. The patient eventually took 18 bougies after the MCA. However, since then, he has not needed a bougie. As of 1 year and 8 months after the MCA, the patient is living at home with oral intake restored.
CONCLUSIONS: MCA is an effective and safe treatment for complete stenosis after esophageal cancer surgery.

Citation: Isozaki T, et al. Magnetic compression anastomosis is effective in treating stenosis after esophageal cancer surgery: a case report. Magnetic compression anastomosis is effective in treating stenosis after esophageal cancer surgery: a case report. 2020; 6:213. doi: 10.1186/s40792-020-00974-y

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32804348/
