PMID: 32807436
Title: Eptifibatide use following emergent carotid stenting in acute anterior circulation ischemic stroke with tandem occlusion.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Early revascularization of the extracranial internal carotid artery in acute anterior circulation ischemic stroke (ACIS) is feasible and may improve clinical outcome. When a stent is deployed, antithrombotic agents should be administered peri-procedurally to ensure stent patency. Our institution implemented a protocol for the use of eptifibatide as a means of maintaining stent patency in the treatment of ACIS associated with cervical internal carotid artery occlusion.
METHODS: Our internal database was queried for patients who received emergent endovascular therapy (ET) for ACIS with stent placement and eptifibatide administration between July 2016 and 2019.
RESULTS: Twenty nine patients met the study criteria. The etiology was large artery atherosclerosis in 26 cases. Two patients had a dissection (7%), and one had a carotid occlusion related to a recent carotid endarterectomy. Mean NIHSS was 14. Sixteen patients received IVrtPA. Extracranial-intracranial tandem occlusion (TO) was present in 21 of cases. All patients received an eptifibatide bolus followed by an infusion for approximately 24 hours post stent deployment. Head CT was obtained prior to initiation of oral dual antiplatelet therapy with aspirin and clopidogrel. Successful recanalization was achieved in all patients with no evidence of downstream embolization. Symptomatic intracerebral hemorrhage occurred in one patient. Stent occlusion occurred in two patients, only one of which was symptomatic. Favorable clinical outcome with mRS ≤ 2 at 3 months was achieved in seventeen patients.
CONCLUSIONS: The use of eptifibatide post procedure was associated with low risk of symptomatic intracranial hemorrhage, including in patients treated with rtPA.

Citation: Osteraas ND, et al. Eptifibatide use following emergent carotid stenting in acute anterior circulation ischemic stroke with tandem occlusion. Eptifibatide use following emergent carotid stenting in acute anterior circulation ischemic stroke with tandem occlusion. 2020; 29:105021. doi: 10.1016/j.jstrokecerebrovasdis.2020.105021

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32807436/
