PMID: 32800980
Title: Three-dimensional computed tomography venogram enables accurate diagnosis and treatment of patients presenting with symptomatic chronic iliofemoral venous obstruction.

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: The last several years has witnessed an increase in the diagnosis and treatment of chronic iliofemoral venous obstructive lesions. Although intravascular ultrasound (IVUS) examination has become the gold standard in the management of chronic iliofemoral venous obstruction (CIVO), it is an invasive technique. To ascertain the usefulness of noninvasive imaging technology in diagnosing and treating CIVO in symptomatic patients, we compared three-dimensional (3D) reconstructions from computed tomography venogram (CTV) with IVUS examination.
METHODS: Twenty-two continuous patients who underwent IVUS interrogation during intervention for CIVO formed the study cohort. Patients who had stenting performed in the setting of chronic total occlusion of the iliofemoral segment or acute iliofemoral deep venous thrombosis were excluded. All patients underwent CTV as part of their standard preoperative work up. Minimal (smallest) luminal areas of the common iliac vein (CIV), external iliac vein (EIV), common femoral vein (CFV) and the inflow channel (segment caudal to the CFV) were obtained from 3D CTV and IVUS. Centerline length measurements were obtained from 3D CTV to estimate the length of the venous stents necessary; the inflow channel luminal area was used to predict the required stent diameter. Pearson correlation was used to evaluate the association between the luminal areas obtained from the two techniques. Agreement was ascertained by use of Bland-Altman limits of agreement. Sensitivity, specificity, positive predictive value, negative predictive value and accuracy of 3D CTV in predicting luminal areas was also determined. Predicted stent diameters and lengths were compared against actual stent diameters and lengths used.
RESULTS: Pearson correlation statistic for luminal areas between 3D CTV and IVUS for the CIV was 0.89 (P < .01), for EIV was 0.77 (P < .01), and for CFV was 0.69 (P < .01). The correlation statistic for the inflow channel luminal area was 0.90 (P < .01). The sensitivity of 3D CTV in diagnosing CIVO in the CIV, EIV, and CFV were 100%, 100% and 80%, respectively. The specificity was 67%, 57%, and 86%, respectively, in the CIV, EIV, and CFV segments. The positive predictive value of 3D CTV in determining CIVO in the CIV, EIV, and CFV segments was 89%, 83%, and 92%, and the negative predictive value was 100%, 100%, and 67%, respectively. The overall accuracy was 91%, 86%, and 82% in the CIV, EIV, and CFV segments. Thus, 3D CTV is able to predict stent length within 9.5 mm of the actual stent length used. With respect to stent diameter, 3D CTV was able to predict within 2 mm of the actual stent diameter used 91% (20/22) and within 4 mm of the actual stent diameter used 100% (22/22) of the time.
CONCLUSIONS: From a diagnostic standpoint 3D CTV does well with an overall accuracy ranging from 82% in the CFV to 91% in the CIV in predicting CIVO. It is also able to accurately predict venous stent diameter and lengths required, rendering it a good tool in the diagnosis and treatment of symptomatic CIVO.

Citation: Jayaraj A and Raju S. Three-dimensional computed tomography venogram enables accurate diagnosis and treatment of patients presenting with symptomatic chronic iliofemoral venous obstruction. Three-dimensional computed tomography venogram enables accurate diagnosis and treatment of patients presenting with symptomatic chronic iliofemoral venous obstruction. 2021; 9:73-80.e1. doi: 10.1016/j.jvsv.2020.07.012

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32800980/
