PMID: 32810629
Title: Indications and Contraindications of Full-Endoscopic Interlaminar Lumbar Decompression.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Spinal stenosis is a common disease with an increasing incidence. Narrowing of the spinal canal is caused by bone and soft tissue degeneration, such as osteophyte formation, facet and ligamentum flavum hypertrophy, and disc herniation. Various surgical techniques have been used to treat spinal canal stenosis, including open, tubular, microsurgical decompression, and fusion surgery. This article presents the technique for full-endoscopic interlaminar bilateral decompression of the lumbar spine.
METHODS: Surgical approach, anatomy, pathology, indications, contraindications, and surgical equipment are described.
RESULTS: With well-chosen endoscopic equipment, surgical time can be reduced with minimal collateral damage. Clear advantages of full-endoscopic decompression over open or other minimally invasive surgery methods are demonstrated in many clinical studies. The endoscopic technique has been shown to be effective in spinal canal decompression with good to excellent clinical results. The interlaminar endoscopic approach minimizes iatrogenic injury to the stabilizing anatomic structures while achieving full unilateral and bilateral decompression. A significant improvement in pain and functional outcome scores with low complication rates has been demonstrated.
CONCLUSIONS: This technique is safe for lumbar spinal decompression and more minimally invasive than a microendoscopic approach. However, this technique should be performed by surgeons with advanced skills. Endoscopy could become the gold standard for treatment of canal stenosis in the near future.

Citation: Wagner R and Haefner M. Indications and Contraindications of Full-Endoscopic Interlaminar Lumbar Decompression. Indications and Contraindications of Full-Endoscopic Interlaminar Lumbar Decompression. 2021; 145:657-662. doi: 10.1016/j.wneu.2020.08.042

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32810629/
