PMID: 32819429
Title: The effect of on-site CT-derived fractional flow reserve on the management of decision making for patients with stable chest pain (TARGET trial): objective, rationale, and design.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: The diagnostic accuracy of CT-derived fractional flow reserve (CT-FFR) in clinical application has been well validated. This advanced technology focus on evaluating anatomical stenosis and functional ischemia simultaneously. However, the effect of CT-FFR on the management of decision making has not been fully evaluated in randomized controlled design.
METHOD/DESIGN: TARGET study is a pragmatic, multicenter, prospective, open-label, and randomized controlled trial evaluating the effect of a CCTA/CT-FFR strategy (group A) versus usual care (group B) on intermediate-to-high risk patients with suspected CAD who undergo clinically indicated diagnostic evaluation. A total sample size of 1216 subjects will be enrolled and followed up for 12 months. This study will be performed in 6 Chinese hospitals, and the primary endpoint is the planned ICA without significant obstructive CAD within 90 days. The secondary endpoints include MACE, quality of life, medical expenditure, and cumulative radiation exposure during 1-year follow-up.
DISCUSSION: The study will provide information to patients, health care providers, and other stakeholders in China about which strategy could be more effective in the management of intermediate-to-high risk patients with suspect CAD.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: ClinicalTrials.gov NCT03901326 . Registered on 3 April 2019.

Citation: Yang J, et al. The effect of on-site CT-derived fractional flow reserve on the management of decision making for patients with stable chest pain (TARGET trial): objective, rationale, and design. The effect of on-site CT-derived fractional flow reserve on the management of decision making for patients with stable chest pain (TARGET trial): objective, rationale, and design. 2020; 21:728. doi: 10.1186/s13063-020-04649-9

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32819429/
