PMID: 32810945
Title: [Feasibility and safety of laparoscopic Parks procedure for chronic radiation proctopathy].

Abstract: Objective: To preliminarily evaluate the feasibility and safety of laparoscopic Parks procedure for chronic radiation proctopathy (CRP). Methods: A descriptive cohort study was carried out. The clinical and follow-up data of 19 patients who received laparoscopic Parks procedure due to CRP in the Sixth Affiliated Hospital of Sun Yat-sen University from July 2013 to March 2019 were retrospectively analyzed. Inclusion criteria: (1) serious late complications occurred after pelvic radiotherapy, e.g.serious intractable hematochezia (hemoglobin &lt;70 g/L), intractable anal pain (numerical rating scale &gt;7), rectostenosis, perforation, and fistula. (2) imaging examinations including colonoscopy, pelvic MRI and/or chest, abdomen and pelvic CT were performed before surgery to confirm the lesions. Exclusion criteria: (1) preoperative or intraoperative diagnosis of tumor recurrence; (2) only ostomy was performed after laparoscopic exploration; (3) after neoadjuvant radiotherapy for rectal cancer; (4) incomplete medical records. Surgical procedures: (1) Laparoscopic exploration: tumor recurrence was excluded, and the range of radioactive damage in the intestine was determined. Marks were made on the proximal sigmoid colon without grossly obvious edema, thickening or radioactive injuries. (2) Abdominal operation: the right mesentery of sigmoid colon and rectum was opened, inferior mesenteric vein and inferior mesenteric artery were divided and the Toldt gap was expanded inwards and cephalad. The outside of left hemicolon was freed, the gastrocolic ligament was opened, the splenic flexure was fully mobilized, and the rectum was separated from the rear, side and front to the lowest point. Then perineal operation was performed. (3) Perineal operation: the whole layer of rectum wall was cut thoroughly at 1cm below the lesion's lower margin, the space around the rectum was fully separated, the rectum and sigmoid colon was pulled out through the anus and cut off at the site of the grossly normal intestine, the diseased bowel was removed and a coloanal anastomosis was made. (4) A protective stoma was performed. Conditions of operation, complication and symptom relief were summarized. A descriptive statistic method was used to analyze the results. Results: All the 19 patients were female with a median age of 53 (interquartiles, 50, 56) years old, of whom 18 patients had primary cervical cancer. Surgical indications: 9 cases were rectovaginal fistula; 9 cases were intractable anal pain, among whom 7 were complicated with deep rectal ulcer; and 1 case was intractable hematochezia with deep rectal ulcer. Eighteen cases completed laparoscopic Parks procedure, while 1 case was converted to laparotomy. The median operative time was 215 (131, 270) minutes, the median bleeding volume was 50 (50, 100) ml, and the median hospital stay was 12 (11, 20) days. There was no perioperative death. Ten cases had postoperative complications, including 3 cases of serious complications (CD grade IIIb and above) within 30 days after operation, of whom one case developed pelvic infection caused by rectovaginal, rectovesical and rectourethral fistula and acute renal failure (IVa); 2 cases developed orifice prolapse and parastomal hernia (IIIb). Seven cases had anastomosis-related complications, including 4 cases of grade A anastomotic leakage and 3 cases of anastomotic stenosis. Symptoms of CRP in the whole group were significantly relieved or disappeared after one year of the operation. Five cases achieved stoma closure. Conclusions: Laparoscopic Parks procedure for chronic radiation proctopathy is safe and feasible, and can effectively improve symptoms. However, the incidence of anastomotic complications is high, so the surgical indications should be strictly controlled.

Citation: Zhong QH, et al. [Feasibility and safety of laparoscopic Parks procedure for chronic radiation proctopathy]. [Feasibility and safety of laparoscopic Parks procedure for chronic radiation proctopathy]. 2020; 23:745-751. doi: 10.3760/cma.j.issn.441530-20200521-00294

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32810945/
