PMID: 32810946
Title: [Feasibility of near-infrared fluorescence imaging in assisting with the determination of the resection range of radiation intestinal injury].

Abstract: Objective: To investigate the feasibility of near-infrared fluorescence imaging (NIRFI) to assist in determining the resection range of radiation intestinal injury (RII). Methods: A descriptive cohort study was conducted. Clinical data of 10 RII patients who presented intestinal obstruction and received operation with more than 100 cm of small intestine had been resected atGeneral Department of Jinling Hospital from October 2014 to January 2015 were retrospectively analyzed. The Novadaq SPY Intra-operative Imaging System was used in capturing and viewing fluorescent images. Firstly, the dense adhesion was mobilized and the obstructive intestine was fully freed under laparoscopy, then entering into abdomen from the corresponding incision. The surgeon determined the resection range according to the color of the intestinal serous layer of the diseased intestinal wall, the thickness of the intestinal wall, and the degree of swelling of the mesentery. Afterwards, intra-operative NIRFI was performed by intravenous injection of 2 ml indocyanine green (ICG) and the imaging results of the diseased intestinal arteriovenous phase were observed and recorded. The evaluation criteria for the final resection range were mainly based on the changes in mesenteric arterial phase imaging. In RII lesions, mesenteric vessels in mesenteric artery phase were disordered, and the comb-like distribution of normal mesenteric vessels completely disappeared. Only the clouded appearance in the intestinal wall was observed. Imaging results of the diseased intestinal tissue during the development phase and mesenteric vein phase were not significantly different from normal intestinal tissue. Intraoperative and postoperative conditions under NIRFI-assisted positioning, including the resection range, anastomosis site, operation-related complications, hospitalization time and cost were recorded. Data of abdominal contrast-enhanced CT and gastrointestinal angiography during 5 years of follow-up were collected to evaluate whether there was anastomotic stenosis or insufficient resection of diseased bowel. Results: Based on the imaging of mesenteric arterial phase of NIRFI, the median resection length of the small intestine was 185 (120-260) cm. After NIRFI imaging, only local lesion of ileum was excised in 6 patients, and jejunum-ileum anastomosis was performed to preserve ileocecal flap. No serious complications such as anastomotic leakage and anastomotic hemorrhage, or chronic intestinal failure such as short bowel syndrome occurred. The median hospitalization time was 32 (22-51) days, and the median hospitalization cost was 142 000 (90 000-175 000) RMB. The hospitalization time and cost were mainly used for the enteral and parenteral nutrition support treatment during the perioperative period. All the patients had normal oral diet and/or oral enteral nutrient. After 5 years of follow-up, no recurrence was found. Abdominal contrast-enhanced CT and gastrointestinal angiography showed no thickening of the intestinal wall or stenosis of the lumen. Conclusion: Mesenteric arterial phase imagingof NIRFI can help surgeons to determine the site and range of resection of RII lesions.

Citation: Mao Q, et al. [Feasibility of near-infrared fluorescence imaging in assisting with the determination of the resection range of radiation intestinal injury]. [Feasibility of near-infrared fluorescence imaging in assisting with the determination of the resection range of radiation intestinal injury]. 2020; 23:752-756. doi: 10.3760/cma.j.cn.441530-20200517-00284

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32810946/
