PMID: 32817787
Title: Comparative outcomes in different aortic valve stenosis surgeries and implications of TAVR surgery for cirrhotic patients: A retrospective cohort study.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Our hospital system is committed to service to medically underserved, low-income, and minority populations. It is located in a city wherein 37% of people live in poverty. Overall cost effectiveness is part of our patient care quality improvement. Cirrhotic patients are at higher risk for cardiac surgery as cardiopulmonary bypass triggers the release of substances that mimic the physiologic changes seen in cirrhosis. We compared outcomes of surgeries performed for the treatment of aortic valve stenosis, surgical aortic valve replacement (SAVR), mini-surgical valve replacement (mini-SVR), and transcatheter aortic valve replacement (TAVR) with attention to cirrhotic patients.
METHODS: This retrospective cohort study looked at the medical records of 457 patients. Demographic data, substance abuse, pre-existing diagnoses, length of stay, outcomes, and lab values were collected for each patient pre- and post-surgery. Fisher's exact test or chi square was used to compare categorical characteristics and outcomes among groups. ANOVA for repeated measures was utilized to compare group differences of continuous measurements over time.
RESULTS: Despite having the highest average age of patients and higher incidence of pre-existing comorbidities, post-operative complications such as arrhythmia, hyponatremia, and coagulopathy developed to a lesser extent in TAVR patients. The length of post-surgery hospital stay was also the least in TAVR patients. TAVR offered better post-operative outcomes in cirrhotic patients as well.
CONCLUSIONS: TAVR showed better post-surgical outcomes and provide an option for cardiac surgery for cirrhotic patients. This data will be useful for enabling a patient-centered decision-making process in our population.

Citation: Winte M, et al. Comparative outcomes in different aortic valve stenosis surgeries and implications of TAVR surgery for cirrhotic patients: A retrospective cohort study. Comparative outcomes in different aortic valve stenosis surgeries and implications of TAVR surgery for cirrhotic patients: A retrospective cohort study. 2020; 57:244-248. doi: 10.1016/j.amsu.2020.07.056

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32817787/
