PMID: 32819026
Title: Should Surgeons Evaluate the Anatomy of Drummond Marginal Artery and Riolan's Arch Preoperatively?

Abstract: INTRODUCTION: The Drummond marginal artery and the Riolan's arch are important links between the superior mesenteric artery (SMA) and inferior mesenteric artery (IMA), which provide collateral flow in case of arterial occlusion or significant stenosis. The Riolan's arch is important in colorectal surgery since it allows for vascularization of the descending colon by the SMA after ligation of the IMA at its origin, especially in cancer patients. In this study, we aimed to evaluate the presence of the Drummond marginal artery and the Riolan's arch. In addition, we assessed anatomic variants of the middle colic artery (MCA) and classified the anatomic relationships between SMA and SMV.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Following screening, 115 abdominal CT scans were included in the study. For all cases, the presence of the Drummond marginal artery and the Riolan's arch, the first diameter of these arterial structures at their origins, the first emerging diameter and anatomic variants of the MCA, and the anatomic relationships between SMA and SMV were evaluated.
RESULTS: Drummond marginal artery was present in all participants (100%). The Riolan's arch was observed in 27.8% of all cases and was higher than in other studies. This can be related to the focus of this arch. In addition, we did not find any similar study in the literature that evaluated MCA origin types, SMA-SMV variants with the presence of the Drummond artery and the Riolan's arch, and the first emerging diameters of vascular structures, such as the Drummond marginal artery, the Riolan's arch, and MCA.
CONCLUSION: Evaluating and stating whether the Drummond marginal artery and the Riolan's arch are seen in thin section abdominal computed tomography (CT) and CT angiographies preoperatively may help in planning appropriate resections and can reduce unwanted postoperative morbidity.

Citation: Karatay E, et al. Should Surgeons Evaluate the Anatomy of Drummond Marginal Artery and Riolan's Arch Preoperatively?. Should Surgeons Evaluate the Anatomy of Drummond Marginal Artery and Riolan's Arch Preoperatively?. 2020; 37:102-106.

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32819026/
