PMID: 32826156
Title: Validation of the focal cerebral arteriopathy severity score (FCASS) in a Swiss cohort: Correlation with infarct volume and outcome.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Focal cerebral arteriopathy (FCA), a major cause of childhood arterial ischemic stroke (AIS), can progress and lead to increased infarct size and/or recurrent stroke. Evaluating treatment options depends on the ability to quantify reliably the degree of stenosis in FCA.
AIMS: We validated the recently introduced FCA severity score (FCASS) in an independent cohort from the Swiss Neuro-Paediatric Stroke Registry (SNPSR).
MATERIALS AND METHODS: We included children with FCA who had MR or CT angiography and a Pediatric Stroke Outcome Measure (PSOM) at 6-months and 2-years post-stroke. A paediatric neuroradiologist applied the FCASS and the modified pediatric Alberta Stroke Program Early Computed Tomography Score (ASPECTS), a measure of infarct volume, to all available imaging. Two senior paediatric stroke neurologists and a neuroradiology fellow independently assigned FCASS scores to test interrater reliability. Pairwise correlations between FCASS, pedASPECTS, and PSOM were examined.
RESULTS: Thirty-two children [median (IQR) age = 5.9 (1.8, 9.6), 19 males] were included. The median maximum FCASS score at any time was 9 (IQR 6, 12; range 3, 16). Larger infarct volume scores correlated with both higher maximum FCASS scores and worse post-stroke outcomes, although we found no direct correlation between FCASS and outcomes. Stroke neurologists tended to assign lower FCASS scores than the neuroradiologist, but interrater reliability was predominantly good.
CONCLUSIONS: In this independent validation cohort, higher maximum FCASS correlated with greater infarct volume scores that also correlated with worse neurological outcomes. Scoring by non-imaging specialists seems to be valuable, although differences are present.

Citation: Slavova N, et al. Validation of the focal cerebral arteriopathy severity score (FCASS) in a Swiss cohort: Correlation with infarct volume and outcome. Validation of the focal cerebral arteriopathy severity score (FCASS) in a Swiss cohort: Correlation with infarct volume and outcome. 2020; 28:58-63. doi: 10.1016/j.ejpn.2020.07.015

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32826156/
