PMID: 32820728
Title: Audit of carotid doppler sonography: Spectrum of findings at a tertiary hospital in Northwestern Nigeria.

Abstract: INTRODUCTION: Doppler sonography of the cervical segment of the carotid arteries is becoming a popular tool for evaluating atherosclerosis of the carotid artery. We present the audit of findings on carotid ultrasound examination among patients with clinical suspicion and risks for cerebrovascular disease and possible correlates in Northern Nigeria.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: We performed carotid ultrasound examination on all patients referred for screening and clinical suspicion of cerebrovascular disease within the year 2017. The patients' characteristics, risk factors, presence of atheroma and characteristic of the atheroma, degree of stenotic disease as well as the presence of incidental ultrasound findings were reviewed and documented.
RESULTS: Out of the 62 patients, 55 (88.7%) of them had various degrees and types of atheromatous plaques in different segments of the cervical carotid arteries, whereas 7 (11.3%) were normal. The predominant risk factor was smoking followed by diabetes mellitus, whereas the highest indication for the scan was transient ischemic attack. Incidental thyroid lesions such as nodules and cysts were encountered in 14 (22.6%) of the patients. There is a statistically significant difference between sex and age with the side of lesion, degree of stenosis, segment involved, and type of atheromatous plaque.
CONCLUSION: There is a statistically significant difference between sex and age with the side of lesion, degree of stenosis, segment involved, and type of atheromatous plaque. About one-fifth of our patients had incidental thyroid lesions. Therefore, routine screening of population at risk is highly recommended.

Citation: Ismail A, et al. Audit of carotid doppler sonography: Spectrum of findings at a tertiary hospital in Northwestern Nigeria. Audit of carotid doppler sonography: Spectrum of findings at a tertiary hospital in Northwestern Nigeria. 2020; 19:170-175. doi: 10.4103/aam.aam_52_18

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32820728/
