PMID: 32833592
Title: Single-Site Umbilical Laparoscopic Pyloromyotomy Using a Pyloric Electrocoagulation Chisel Combined with a Left-Handed Main Operation for Congenital Hypertrophic Pyloric Stenosis.

Abstract: Background: Laparoscopic pyloromyotomy has become a gold standard for the treatment of congenital hypertrophic pyloric stenosis (HPS). There have been recent reports on the use of transumbilical single-site laparoscopic surgery for congenital HPS; however, using transumbilical single-site laparoscopic surgery in pediatric cases is still controversial due to the difficulty with manipulation. In this study, some preliminary experience with the application of a novel transumbilical single-site laparoscopic approach in congenital HPS is described. Methods: A retrospective study was conducted involving 25 patients with congenital HPS treated in our hospital from August 2016 to August 2019. A pyloric electrocoagulation chisel combined with a left-handed main operation was completed in all of the patients and the operative times, postoperative length of stay, and operative complications were recorded. Results: The laparoscopic operation was completed in 25 patients with an average operative time of 21.9 ± 5.5 minutes, average postoperative length of stay of 2.5 ± 0.9 days, and no perforations of the pyloric mucosa, recurrent obstruction, surgical incision infections, and incision hernias. All of the patients had at least 3 months of follow-up, good growth and development, and the parents were satisfied with the postoperative scars. Conclusion: A pyloric electrocoagulation chisel combined with a left-handed main operation in the treatment of congenital HPS by a single-site umbilical laparoscopic pyloromyotomy is safe and effective, and can achieve a satisfactory cosmetic effect.

Citation: Yu LJ, et al. Single-Site Umbilical Laparoscopic Pyloromyotomy Using a Pyloric Electrocoagulation Chisel Combined with a Left-Handed Main Operation for Congenital Hypertrophic Pyloric Stenosis. Single-Site Umbilical Laparoscopic Pyloromyotomy Using a Pyloric Electrocoagulation Chisel Combined with a Left-Handed Main Operation for Congenital Hypertrophic Pyloric Stenosis. 2020; 30:1248-1252. doi: 10.1089/lap.2020.0478

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32833592/
