PMID: 32841175
Title: [EXPERIENCE OF BIPORTAL ENDOSCOPIC DECOMPRESSION IN LUMBAR SPINAL STENOSIS].

Abstract: The aim of the study was to analyze the results of treatment with biportal endoscopic decompression of patients with spinal stenosis. The treatment results of 62 patients who underwent surgery (for discectomy) (for decompression) in the period from March 2018 to June 2019 were analyzed. All 62 patients were operated by biportal endoscopy at the spine surgery clinic of the State Institution "Institute of Traumatology and Orthopedics of the National Academy of Medical Sciences of Ukraine". Pain intensity was assessed using a visual analogue pain scale (VAS), patient satisfaction and quality of life was assessed using a modified MacNab scale and the Oswestry Disability Index (ODI), respectively, 1 week, 3 months and 6 months after surgery. Perioperative data were also evaluated (duration of surgery and length of stay in the hospital, blood loss and complications). X-ray results were evaluated using pre- and postoperative MRI (6-8 weeks after surgery). According to the results of studies in the postoperative period, a positive trend was observed. So, the indicator of back pain according to VAS after surgery decreased to 0,9±1,4 points, and the indicator of pain in the leg according to VAS on average in the postoperative phase was 1,28±1,1 points, respectively. Assessing perioperative data, in the group of patients the level of blood loss was 34,8±16,2, and the length of stay in the hospital was 2,9±1,3 days. Among the complications, 4 cases of point wound of the dural membrane and 1 case of linear wound of the dural membrane, more than 1 cm long with the contents of the dural sac entering the epidural space, which required conversion to an open operation with suturing the defect, were noted. Biportal endoscopic spinal surgery is an effective method of treating lumbar spinal stenosis, which has several advantages over open surgery (less tissue trauma, less blood loss, high patient satisfaction with the treatment result). UBE has an advantage over microscopic technique in terms of achieving complete decompression in an enlarged arthroscopic field without restricting the movement of the instrument due to the use of an independent portal, and continuous irrigation with saline during surgery is a great advantage to prevent infection.

Citation: Fishchenko I, et al. [EXPERIENCE OF BIPORTAL ENDOSCOPIC DECOMPRESSION IN LUMBAR SPINAL STENOSIS]. [EXPERIENCE OF BIPORTAL ENDOSCOPIC DECOMPRESSION IN LUMBAR SPINAL STENOSIS]. 2020; (unknown volume):21-27.

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32841175/
