PMID: 32840397
Title: The effect of myocardial injury on the clinical course of snake envenomation in South Korea.

Abstract: CONTENT: This study investigated the incidence, progression and clinical course of myocardial injury-related snake envenomation in South Korea. In addition, this study evaluated whether antivenom guidelines are appropriate to control envenomation in patients with myocardial injury.
METHODS: The study included 198 patients who received antivenom after a snakebite, and they were divided into two groups according to evidence of myocardial injury (defined as elevated troponin I or ischemic change on electrocardiogram) at presentation. Data including serial troponin I, echocardiogram/coronary angiogram findings, the clinical course, and treatment were collected and analyzed.
RESULTS: The incidence of myocardial injury at presentation was 15.2%. The troponin I level was 0.11 (0.07-0.56) ng/ml at presentation and tended to decrease over 24 h. Echocardiograms revealed neither regional wall motion abnormalities nor left ventricular dysfunction in 15 of 17 patients, while two patients showed signs of coronary artery stenosis on echocardiograms and coronary angiograms. However, compared with patients without myocardial injury, patients with myocardial injury had a higher frequency of systemic envenomation complications, including bleeding, respiratory failure, hypotension, acute kidney injury, thrombocytopenia and venom-induced consumption coagulopathy (VICC). The patients with myocardial injury at presentation needed significantly more frequent and larger doses of antivenom than indicated by the initial severity of envenomation. Multivariate analysis showed that myocardial injury was associated with the need for additional antivenom administration after initial administration.
DISCUSSION AND CONCLUSION: Myocardial injury is not uncommon after snake envenomation in Korea. Although myocardial injury itself seems to be benign, the clinical course of patients with myocardial injury is complicated, and myocardial injury is associated with the need for additional antivenom administration. The optimal use of antivenom to control envenomation in patents with myocardial injury after snake envenomation in South Korea should be established.

Citation: Moon JM, et al. The effect of myocardial injury on the clinical course of snake envenomation in South Korea. The effect of myocardial injury on the clinical course of snake envenomation in South Korea. 2021; 59:286-295. doi: 10.1080/15563650.2020.1802473

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32840397/
