PMID: 32844796
Title: Doppler Evaluation of Carotid Vessels in Type 2 Diabetes.

Abstract: Type 2 diabetes considered as a compound of metabolic syndrome. It can cause both micro and macrovascular complications. Diabetes is a strong risk factor in the development of atherosclerosis and likewise carotid artery disease. Carotid artery stenosis may cause stroke. Doppler ultrasound is the most common imaging technique for the diagnosis of carotid disease. Objective of the study was to assess the percentage of atherosclerotic carotid disease in asymptomatic Type 2 diabetics (T2D) by Doppler sonography and to find out the association of different risk factors of diabetic patient with atherosclerosis. A cross sectional study was done. A total of 43 type 2 diabetic patients (27 male, 16 female) referred from the out patient department and admitted patients in Mymensingh Medical College Hospital (MMCH) during January 2017 to December 2017 for the purpose of evaluation of intima media thickness (IMT) and carotid artery stenosis by Duplex color Doppler ultrasonography examination were enrolled in this study. Patients with previous history of recent stroke or transient ischemic attack (<6 weeks), history of carotid surgery or cervical radiotherapy were excluded. Carotid artery disease was found 65.1% in asymptomatic type 2 diabetics. Among them increased IMT in 48.8% and carotid stenosis was present in 37.2% and >50% stenosis (Peak systolic velocity >125cm/sec) was present in 9.3%. Age >50% years, smoking, duration of DM >10 years, hypertension, history of ischaemic heart disease and history of diabetic retinopathy were found to be associated with carotid atherosclerosis as well as carotid stenosis. High percentage of carotid artery disease (65.1%) was found in asymptomatic type 2 diabetes mellitus. This result suggests the need for carotid Doppler evaluation of all Type 2 diabetics as a first measure of stroke prevention, with the hope that timely intervention might avert stroke and its accompanying disability.

Citation: Sultana N and Islam MR. Doppler Evaluation of Carotid Vessels in Type 2 Diabetes. Doppler Evaluation of Carotid Vessels in Type 2 Diabetes. 2020; 29:572-578.

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32844796/
