PMID: 32844797
Title: 3D Echocardiography Is More Efficient In Detail Assessment of Calcification in Chronic Rheumatic Mitral Stenosis.

Abstract: Rheumatic heart disease is in the declining phase, with the increase of urbanization and increment of availability of healthcare facility. However still it causes a substantial number of morbidity and mortality in South Asia. The prevalence of Rheumatic Fever and Rheumatic heart disease in Bangladesh is still high, 0.6 and 0.3 per thousand populations respectively. In the rheumatic process mitral is the frequently involved valve, mostly in the form of mitral stenosis. Choice of a treatment modality and its success largely depend on the accurate assessment of severity of disease especially the extent and distribution of calcification. Echocardiography has a key role in the determination of the severity of mitral stenosis as well as assessment of details calcification. Conventionally 2 dimensional and Doppler echocardiography is used. Now a days, 3D echocardiography offers better cardiac imaging for detail evaluation. The heart being a complex structure, the 3D evaluation would certainly offer better imaging for the accurate assessment of the mitral stenosis, especially details of presence & distribution calcification. This cross-sectional observational study was done from May 2012 to October 2012 in University Cardiac Centre, Bangabandhu Sheikh Mujib Medical University (BSMMU), Dhaka, Bangladesh. Data were collected with informed written consent, from 50 subjects who underwent transthoracic 2D and 3D Echocardiography for the assessment of rheumatic mitral valve with special emphasis on accurate assessment of severity, extent and distribution of calcification. Precise measurement of MV area is essential in the assessment of severity, which is found comparable by both 2DE (0.98±0.24cm²) and 3DE (0.92±0.23cm²). But in identifying calcification and accurate assessment of severity, more importantly commissural involvement is better detected by 3DE (p=0.002). This has extreme importance in therapeutic decision making in the treatment of chronic rheumatic MS. So, to formulate an efficient management plan, three-dimensional echocardiography has promising prospects in detecting severity & extent of rheumatic calcification.

Citation: Shakil SS, et al. 3D Echocardiography Is More Efficient In Detail Assessment of Calcification in Chronic Rheumatic Mitral Stenosis. 3D Echocardiography Is More Efficient In Detail Assessment of Calcification in Chronic Rheumatic Mitral Stenosis. 2020; 29:579-588.

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32844797/
