PMID: 32843602
Title: Hepatic atrophy treatment with portal vein embolization to control intrahepatic duct stenosis-associated cholangitis.

Abstract: We present two cases of hepatic atrophy treatment with portal vein embolization (PVE) to control intractable cholangitis. The first case was a 60-year-old male who was admitted for repeated episodes of cholangitis. He had undergone cholecystectomy and Roux-en-Y choledochojejunostomy 2 years earlier. Imaging studies showed left intrahepatic duct dilatation and anastomotic site stricture. The patient was reluctant to undergo another surgery. Thus, we decided to perform left PVE to induce atrophy of the left liver. The left liver shrank and stayed silent for 5 years, but a radiological intervention was necessary to treat symptomatic anastomotic stenosis. The patient has done well for 12 years after PVE. The second case was a 51-year-old female who was also admitted for repeated episodes of cholangitis. She had undergone excision of type I choledochal cyst 2 years earlier. Imaging studies showed right hepatic duct stenosis. Cholangitis developed repeatedly. Thus, radiologic interventions were performed 8 times over 9 years. Finally, she was referred for surgery, but she was very reluctant to undergo another surgery. We planned a wait-and-see strategy following right PVE. After PVE, the right liver progressively shrank. Three months after PVE, we decided to wait for a longer period until further atrophy of the right liver. The patient has been doing well for 14 months after PVE without any episode of cholangitis. In conclusion, experience from our two cases suggests that hepatic parenchymal induction therapy through percutaneous PVE can be a therapeutic option for patients with perihilar biliary stenosis-associated cholangitis.

Citation: Hwang S, et al. Hepatic atrophy treatment with portal vein embolization to control intrahepatic duct stenosis-associated cholangitis. Hepatic atrophy treatment with portal vein embolization to control intrahepatic duct stenosis-associated cholangitis. 2020; 24:339-344. doi: 10.14701/ahbps.2020.24.3.339

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32843602/
