PMID: 32857913
Title: The Clinical Contribution of Neurovascular Ultrasonography in Acute Ischemic Stroke.

Abstract: BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: Patients with acute ischemic stroke receive computed tomography angiogram (CTA) and digital subtraction angiogram (DSA) for clinical evaluation. Current guidelines lack in defining indications for transcranial Doppler (TCD) and/or carotid duplex ultrasonography (CUS) in acute stroke evaluation or follow-up cerebrovascular imaging after reperfusion. We investigated the clinical utility of performing additional TCD/CUS after reperfusion in guiding postacute care stroke management.
METHODS: Retrospective review of acute ischemic stroke patients admitted to a comprehensive stroke center with CTA head and neck and/or DSA followed by TCD/CUS. Cases were reviewed by two authors to determine if TCD/CUS provided additional diagnostic information to aid management. A nominal group process, using a third author, achieved consensus in cases of disagreements.
RESULTS: Only 25 of 198 patients had CTA or DSA followed by TCD/CUS. Ten (40%) cases showed new clinical information from CUS aiding management. Of those with TCD, 5 patients (22.7%) had findings that impacted management. These clinical scenarios included detection of mobile thrombus requiring anticoagulation; distinguishing carotid near-occlusion from occlusion; confirming hemodynamic significance of intra/extracranial stenosis helping emergent stenting/endarterectomy; detecting hyperperfusion on TCDs causing symptoms; and establishing chronicity of carotid stenosis based on collateral flow patterns, which deferred further intervention.
DISCUSSION: Our experience shows that TCD/CUS may offer additional diagnostic information assisting postacute care management in small subset of patients with acute ischemic stroke. Larger studies are needed to research the clinical impact and cost-effectiveness of additional imaging and inform clinical guidelines for selecting patients who will benefit from these additional studies.

Citation: Gomez JR, et al. The Clinical Contribution of Neurovascular Ultrasonography in Acute Ischemic Stroke. The Clinical Contribution of Neurovascular Ultrasonography in Acute Ischemic Stroke. 2020; 30:867-874. doi: 10.1111/jon.12771

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32857913/
