PMID: 32858742
Title: Does "Coronal Root Angle" Serve as a Parameter in the Removal of Ventral Factors for Foraminal Stenosis at L5-S1 In Stand-alone Microendoscopic Decompression?

Abstract: STUDY DESIGN: Prospective single-center cohort study.
OBJECTIVE: The present study aims to investigate the causes of failure of L5/S1 foraminal stenosis, and it is hypothesized that the newly defined "L5 coronal root angle (CRA)" may be a parameter in the removal of ventral pathologies.
SUMMARY OF BACKGROUND DATA: Lumbar foraminal stenosis is an important cause of recurrent leg pain after central spinal stenosis surgery. Although it can be seen at all levels, L5/S1 is the level at which it is most frequently seen due to its specific characteristics, with success rate is lower than other levels after foraminal decompression.
METHODS: L5/S1 microendoscopic foraminal decompression was performed to 51 patients. According to Japanese Orthopedic Association (JOA) improvement at 12-month follow-up, those with improvement >20% were classified as Group 1 and <20% were classified as Group 2. The patients who underwent discectomy in addition to foraminotomy formed Group 3. Lumbar lordosis angle, segmental lordosis angle, anterior disc height, pelvic tilt, pelvic incidence, sacral slope, relative disc height ratio, pedicle height/vertebral body height ratio, L5 depth, L5 CRA, and anterior disc height/ posterior disc height ratio parameters were measured with lumbar radiographic views, computed tomography (CT), and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI).
RESULTS: Among the parameters compared between groups, L5 CRA, posterior disc height, anterior disc height/posterior disc height, relative disc height ratio, and lumbar lordosis angle during extension were seen to be statistically significantly related with low success rate.
CONCLUSION: Failure to remove the ventral pathologies when the L5 CRA is <112. 1º may lead to failed results. Besides, in cases wherein the posterior disc height is <2.85 mm or the anterior/posterior disc height ratio is >3.98, approaches to restoring disc height rather than stand-alone posterior decompression may reduce the possibility of failure.
LEVEL OF EVIDENCE: 2.

Citation: Merter A and Shibayama M. Does "Coronal Root Angle" Serve as a Parameter in the Removal of Ventral Factors for Foraminal Stenosis at L5-S1 In Stand-alone Microendoscopic Decompression?. Does "Coronal Root Angle" Serve as a Parameter in the Removal of Ventral Factors for Foraminal Stenosis at L5-S1 In Stand-alone Microendoscopic Decompression?. 2020; 45:1676-1684. doi: 10.1097/BRS.0000000000003653

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32858742/
