PMID: 32850986
Title: Usefulness of Proximal Coronary Wave Speed for Wave Intensity Analysis in Diseased Coronary Vessels.

Abstract: Background: Wave speed is needed to separate net wave intensity into forward and backward traveling components. However, wave speed in diseased coronary arteries cannot be assessed from hemodynamic measurements obtained distal to a stenosis. Wave speed inherently depends on arterial wall properties which should be similar proximal and distal to a stenosis. Our hypothesis is that proximal wave speed can be used to separate net wave intensity obtained distal to a stenosis. Methods: We assessed coronary wave speed using the sum-of-squares single-point technique (SPc) based on simultaneous intracoronary pressure and flow velocity measurements in human coronary arteries. SPc at resting flow was determined in diseased coronary vessels of 12 patients both proximal and distal to the stenosis. In seven of these vessels, distal measurements were additionally obtained after revascularization by stent placement. SPc was also assessed at two axial locations in 14 reference vessels without a stenosis. Results: (1) No difference in SPc was present between proximal and distal locations in the reference vessels. (2) In diseased vessels with a focal stenosis, SPc at the distal location was paradoxically larger than SPc proximal to the stenosis (28.4 ± 3.7 m/s vs. 18.3 ± 1.8 m/s, p &lt; 0.02), despite the lower distending pressure downstream of the stenosis. The corresponding separated wave energy tended to be underestimated when derived from SPc at the distal compared with the proximal location. (3) After successful revascularization, SPc at the distal location no longer differed from SPc at the proximal location prior to revascularization (21.9 ± 2.0 m/s vs. 20.8 ± 1.9 m/s, p = 0.48). Accordingly, no significant difference in separated wave energy was observed for forward or backward waves. Conclusion: In diseased coronary vessels, SPc assessed from distal hemodynamic signals is erroneously elevated. Our findings suggest that proximal wave speed can be used to separate wave intensity profiles obtained downstream of a stenosis. This approach may extend the application of wave intensity analysis to diseased coronary vessels.

Citation: Casadonte L, et al. Usefulness of Proximal Coronary Wave Speed for Wave Intensity Analysis in Diseased Coronary Vessels. Usefulness of Proximal Coronary Wave Speed for Wave Intensity Analysis in Diseased Coronary Vessels. 2020; 7:133. doi: 10.3389/fcvm.2020.00133

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32850986/
