PMID: 32868139
Title: Continent Cutaneous Catheterizable Channels in Pediatric Patients: A Decade of Experience with Open and Robotic Approaches in a Single Center.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: To allow patients with bladder and bowel dysfunctions to achieve social continence, continent catheterizable channels (CCCs) are effective alternatives to intermittent self-catheterization and enema.
OBJECTIVE: We aimed to describe our progressive advancement from open to robotic construction of CCCs, reporting outcomes and comparing the two approaches.
DESIGN, SETTING, AND PARTICIPANTS: We retrospectively reviewed electronic medical records of pediatric patients who underwent construction of CCCs between 2008 and 2019. The inclusion criteria were age ≤18 yr, and CCCs with or without bladder augmentation or bladder neck surgery. We compared open versus robotic approaches for demographics, and intra- and postoperative outcomes; operative time was calculated as incision-to-closure time.
SURGICAL PROCEDURE: Channels performed were appendicovesicostomy (APV), Monti with tapered ileum, and antegrade colonic enema (ACE). A Monti channel with tapered ileum was preferred to a spiral Monti or double Monti, as it has more robust blood supply and it was performed only with an open approach.
MEASUREMENTS: The primary outcome was success rate, defined as postoperative stomal continence. Stomal incontinence was defined as the presence of urine leakage noted by caregivers or patients and confirmed by the surgeon. Secondary outcomes were stomal stenosis (supra- and subfascial), incontinence, need for surgical revision, and surgical site infection.
RESULTS AND LIMITATIONS: A total of 69 patients were included in the study, with 35 open and 34 robotic procedures. The robotic approach showed a significant decrease in length of hospital stay (LOS) compared with the open approach. Six primary subfascial revisions were performed in five patients--three Monti, two ACE, and one APV. Continence rates were 91.4% and 91.2% for open and robotic approaches, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: Robotic surgery for CCCs showed acceptable postoperative functional outcomes and complication rates, which are comparable with those of the traditional open approach. Additionally, due to its minimally invasive nature, it offers advantages such as decreased postoperative pain, LOS, and time to full diet, and better cosmesis.
PATIENT SUMMARY: Robotic surgery for continent catheterizable channels showed acceptable postoperative functional outcomes and complication rates, which are comparable with those of the traditional open approach.

Citation: Galansky L, et al. Continent Cutaneous Catheterizable Channels in Pediatric Patients: A Decade of Experience with Open and Robotic Approaches in a Single Center. Continent Cutaneous Catheterizable Channels in Pediatric Patients: A Decade of Experience with Open and Robotic Approaches in a Single Center. 2021; 79:866-878. doi: 10.1016/j.eururo.2020.08.013

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32868139/
