PMID: 32864922
Title: Surgical Strategies and Results for Repair of Pulmonary Atresia with Ventricular Septal Defect and Major Aortopulmonary Collaterals: Experience of a Single Tertiary Center.

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: To evaluate surgical management and results of patients with pulmonary atresia and ventricular septal defect with major aortopulmonary collateral arteries (PA/VSD/MAPCAs).
METHODS: We reviewed a consecutive series of patients with PA/VSD/MAPCAs between January 2012 and October 2018. Study patients were separated into Group A, efficient MAPCAs; Group B, hypoplastic MAPCAs; Group C, severe hypoplastic MAPCAs at all divisions; and Group D, distal stenosis at most MAPCAs divisions.
RESULTS: Thirty-six patients were included in the study. Median age at operation time was 5.5 months (2-110 months), median weight was 8 kg (2.5-21 kg), and median number of MAPCAs was three (1-6). In Group A, 14 patients underwent single-stage total correction (TC); in Group B, 18 patients underwent unifocalization and central shunting; and in Group C, four patients had aortopulmonary window creation and collateral ligation. No patient was placed in Group D. Seventy percent of patients (n=25) had the TC operation. Early mortality was not seen in Group A, but the other two groups had a 13.6% mortality rate. At the follow-up, three patients had reintervention, two had new conduit replacement, and one had right ventricular outflow tract reconstruction.
CONCLUSION: Evaluating patients with PA/VSD/MAPCAs in detail and subdividing them is quite useful in determining the appropriate surgical approach. With this strategy, TC can be achieved in most patients. Single-stage TC is better than other surgical methods due to its lower mortality and reintervention rates. Care should be taken in terms of early postoperative intensive care complications and reintervention indications during follow-ups.

Citation: Haydin S, et al. Surgical Strategies and Results for Repair of Pulmonary Atresia with Ventricular Septal Defect and Major Aortopulmonary Collaterals: Experience of a Single Tertiary Center. Surgical Strategies and Results for Repair of Pulmonary Atresia with Ventricular Septal Defect and Major Aortopulmonary Collaterals: Experience of a Single Tertiary Center. 2020; 35:445-451. doi: 10.21470/1678-9741-2019-0055

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32864922/
