PMID: 32866112
Title: Comparison of acetylsalicylic acid and clopidogrel non-responsiveness assessed by light transmittance aggregometry and PFA-100® in patients undergoing neuroendovascular procedures.

Abstract: OBJECTIVES: Dual platelet inhibition is commonly used for prevention of cardiovascular events in patients undergoing neuroendovascular procedures. Non-responsiveness to platelet inhibitors may be associated with adverse outcomes. The aim of this study was to evaluate the reliability of the platelet function analyzer PFA-100® in comparison to light transmittance aggregometry (LTA) for monitoring clopidogrel and acetylsalicylic acid (ASA) non-responsiveness in a cohort of patients treated for intracranial aneurysm or cranial artery stenosis.
METHODS: Non-responsiveness to clopidogrel and ASA was assessed by LTA using adenosine diphosphate (ADP) and arachidonic acid and by PFA-100® with the ADP/prostaglandin E1 (PGE1) and collagen/epinephrine cartridges, respectively.
RESULTS: A total of 203 patients (145 females; median age, 57 years) were analyzed. Agreement between the two tests was poor for clopidogrel non-responsiveness (ƙ=0.19) and not better than chance for ASA non-responsiveness (ƙ=0.01). Clopidogrel non-responsiveness by LTA and PFA-100® was associated with higher von Willebrand factor antigen and activity levels. ADP-induced platelet disaggregation was lower in patients with clopidogrel non-responsiveness as assessed by PFA-100®. Clopidogrel non-responsiveness by LTA was associated with a higher prevalence of diabetes and a higher body mass index (BMI). Adverse outcomes (death, thromboembolism, or in-stent thrombosis) occurred in 13% (n=26) of all patients independently of ASA and clopidogrel non-responsiveness as assessed by both devices.
CONCLUSIONS: Our results show that LTA and PFA-100® are not interchangeable in the assessment of ASA and clopidogrel non-responsiveness in patients undergoing neuroendovascular interventions.

Citation: Rolling CC, et al. Comparison of acetylsalicylic acid and clopidogrel non-responsiveness assessed by light transmittance aggregometry and PFA-100® in patients undergoing neuroendovascular procedures. Comparison of acetylsalicylic acid and clopidogrel non-responsiveness assessed by light transmittance aggregometry and PFA-100® in patients undergoing neuroendovascular procedures. 2020; 59:383-392. doi: 10.1515/cclm-2020-0737

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32866112/
