PMID: 32864925
Title: Investigation of the Relationship between Cerebral Near-Infrared Spectroscopy Measurements and Cerebrovascular Event in Coronary Artery Bypass Grafting Operation in Patients without Carotid Stenosis and Patients with Carotid Stenosis below Surgical Margins.

Abstract: OBJECTIVES: Stroke is an important cause of mortality and morbidity in surgery. In the present study, we examined the cerebral oximetry values of patients with carotid artery stenosis who did not present surgical indications and those who did not present carotid artery stenosis in coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG) surgery by comparing their cerebral oximetry values with cerebrovascular disease (CVD).
METHODS: Between January and May 2014, 40 patients who underwent isolated CABG were included in the study. Cerebral oximetry probes were placed prior to induction of anesthesia. Cerebral oximetry values were recorded before induction, in the pump (cardiopulmonary bypass) inlet period, in the post-clamp period, in the pump outlet period, and in the intensive care unit and neurological complications.
RESULTS: There was no difference between the groups in terms of demographic data and routine follow-up parameters. Intraoperative surgical data and early postoperative results were similar in both groups. When comparing the groups, there were no statistically significant results in cerebral oximetry values and CVD development. Only one patient in group 2 had postoperative CVD and this patient was discharged from the hospital with right hemiplegia. Mean arterial pressure (MAP)levels were significantly higher in Group 2 (P<0.05).
CONCLUSION: The follow-up of cerebral perfusion with a method like near-infrared spectroscopy (NIRS) will ensure that MAP is adjusted with interventions that will be made according to changes in NIRS. Thus, it will be possible to avoid unnecessary medication and flow-rate increase with cerebral oxygen saturation (rSO2) follow-up.

Citation: Coskun C, et al. Investigation of the Relationship between Cerebral Near-Infrared Spectroscopy Measurements and Cerebrovascular Event in Coronary Artery Bypass Grafting Operation in Patients without Carotid Stenosis and Patients with Carotid Stenosis below Surgical Margins. Investigation of the Relationship between Cerebral Near-Infrared Spectroscopy Measurements and Cerebrovascular Event in Coronary Artery Bypass Grafting Operation in Patients without Carotid Stenosis and Patients with Carotid Stenosis below Surgical Margins. 2020; 35:465-470. doi: 10.21470/1678-9741-2019-0050

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32864925/
