PMID: 32867507
Title: Usefulness of pointwise encoding time reduction with radial acquisition sequence in subtraction-based magnetic resonance angiography for follow-up of the Neuroform Atlas stent-assisted coil embolization for cerebral aneurysms.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Although time-of-flight magnetic resonance angiography (TOF-MRA) is widely used, it has limited usefulness for follow-up after stent-assisted coil embolization. Contrast-enhanced MRA (CE-MRA) and ultrashort echo time MRA have been suggested as alternative methods for visualization after this procedure.
PURPOSE: To compare efficacy and usefulness of pointwise encoding time reduction with radial acquisition (PETRA) sequence in subtraction-based MRA (qMRA), TOF-MRA, and CE-MRA during the follow-up after Neuroform Atlas stent-assisted coil embolization for intracranial aneurysms.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: This retrospective study included 23 patients with 24 aneurysms who underwent Neuroform Atlas stent-assisted coil embolization for intracranial aneurysms. All patients were evaluated with PETRA qMRA, TOF-MRA, and CE-MRA at the same follow-up session. The flow within stents, occlusion status, and presence of pseudo-stenosis were evaluated; inter-observer and intermodality agreements for the three methods were also graded.
RESULTS: The mean score for flow visualization within the stents was significantly higher for PETRA qMRA and CE-MRA than for TOF-MRA (although no significant difference was found between PETRA qMRA and CE-MRA). Good inter-observer agreement was observed for each modality. PETRA qMRA and CE-MRA were more consistent with digital subtraction angiography (DSA) than TOF-MRA for aneurysm occlusion status. The intermodality agreement was better between PETRA qMRA and DSA, and between CE-MRA and DSA, than between DSA and TOF-MRA. Pseudo-stenosis was most frequently observed in TOF-MRA, followed by CE-MRA and PETRA qMRA.
CONCLUSION: PETRA qMRA is useful for evaluating the parent artery patency and occlusion status of aneurysms after Neuroform Atlas stent-assisted coil embolization.

Citation: Heo YJ, et al. Usefulness of pointwise encoding time reduction with radial acquisition sequence in subtraction-based magnetic resonance angiography for follow-up of the Neuroform Atlas stent-assisted coil embolization for cerebral aneurysms. Usefulness of pointwise encoding time reduction with radial acquisition sequence in subtraction-based magnetic resonance angiography for follow-up of the Neuroform Atlas stent-assisted coil embolization for cerebral aneurysms. 2021; 62:1193-1199. doi: 10.1177/0284185120952784

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32867507/
