PMID: 32862980
Title: The persistent sciatic artery: Report of ten cases.

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: The persistent sciatic artery (PSA) is a rare congenital anomaly with a high rate of aneurysm formation, occlusion and stenosis. It may lead to severe complications including thrombosis, distal embolisation, or aneurysm rupture. We reported herein our experience in the management of PSA and its complications, and discuss the therapeutic options.
METHODS: Eight patients with 10 PSA were managed in our institutions between 1985 and 2017. An analysis was done for the clinical data, surgical technique, and results.
RESULTS: The series included six women and two men. The median age of the patients was 66,5 years (37-80 years). Physical examination found a pulsatile gluteal mass in five patients, sciatic neuropathy in two cases. Four patients had an acute ischemia of the lower limb. Cowie's sign was described in only two patients (diminished or absent femoral pulse but presence of popliteal pulse). Digital subtraction angiography was performed in all patients, and was completed with a computed tomography angiography (CTA) with a diagnosis of PSA, associated with a symptomatic aneurysmal lesion in seven cases and with an occlusion in one case. The treatment was surgical in all cases: bipolar exclusion of the aneurysm and bypass between the iliac artery and the PSA distal to the aneurysm was performed in four cases, only proximal and distal ligation was done in 2 other cases. A Chopart amputation was necessary in 2 cases.
CONCLUSION: We consider that the treatment of PSA is usually surgical in symptomatic cases. Surgical techniques depend on symptoms and classification describing anatomy of the PSA. However, future studies should compare the open versus the endovascular approach to optimize patient selection criteria and identify the most safe and effective strategy. In an asymptomatic patient, PSA does not require any intervention; continued follow-up is required because of the high incidence of aneurysmal formation and the risk of thromboembolic events.

Citation: Belmir H, et al. The persistent sciatic artery: Report of ten cases. The persistent sciatic artery: Report of ten cases. 2020; 45:241-247. doi: 10.1016/j.jdmv.2020.06.003

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32862980/
