PMID: 32863299
Title: Usefulness of Carotid Ultrasonography for Risk Stratification of Cerebral and Cardiovascular Disease.

Abstract: Carotid ultrasonography is useful for the assessments of the risk stratification for stroke or coronary artery disease, because it is a simple, repeatable, and noninvasive procedure. The carotid intima-media thickness (IMT), which is assessed using carotid ultrasonography, is a widely used surrogate marker for the severity of atherosclerosis. Several large clinical studies showed that increased carotid IMT is associated with the future stroke or cardiovascular events. In addition, in many clinical trials, it has been adopted for surrogate markers of clinical endpoints of medical intervention. Moreover, carotid ultrasonography allows the measurement of the presence and characteristics of plaques and the severity of carotid artery stenosis. The unstable morphology of plaque, such as hypoechoic, ulcer, and mobility, is associated with future ischemic stroke events. The screening tool of asymptomatic carotid artery stenosis is also important, although whether routine carotid ultrasonography assessment is recommended in the general population remains controversial. The screening of carotid artery stenosis using ultrasonography is essential for not only daily clinical settings but also management of patients with acute ischemic stroke. The patients with atherothrombotic stroke with severe internal carotid artery stenosis should be considered to surgical intervention, and duplex ultrasound approach is important to estimate for the severity of carotid stenosis. Physicians should keep in mind the usefulness of carotid ultrasonography for risk stratification of cerebral and cardiovascular disease based on various aspects. In addition, visual assessment or dynamic changes using carotid ultrasonography could provide the various and valuable insights in clinical settings.

Citation: Nezu T and Hosomi N. Usefulness of Carotid Ultrasonography for Risk Stratification of Cerebral and Cardiovascular Disease. Usefulness of Carotid Ultrasonography for Risk Stratification of Cerebral and Cardiovascular Disease. 2020; 27:1023-1035. doi: 10.5551/jat.RV17044

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32863299/
