PMID: 32866351
Title: Extracranial Carotid Artery Stenosis: The Effects on Brain and Cognition with a Focus on Resting-State Functional Connectivity.

Abstract: Extracranial carotid artery stenosis (ECAS) due to the presence of atherosclerotic plaque is a well-known risk factor for stroke. Several structural imaging studies have investigated the effect of ECAS on the brain, focusing on structural damage (in particular cerebral small vessel disease) and on the rearrangement of the cerebral circulation. For example, it is known from the literature an association between carotid stenosis and cerebral small vessel disease, and it is also noted that a series of compensatory mechanisms are activated by the cerebrovascular system in order to overcome the cerebral hypoperfusion that is induced by the ECAS. Several neurocognitive studies have also investigated the association of ECAS with cognitive deficits. While the evidence tends to favor a direct association between ECAS and cognition, the actual relationship remains controversial. In the last decade, various resting-state functional connectivity (rs-fc) magnetic resonance (MR) studies have tried to elucidate the "in vivo" mechanisms underlying the cognitive impairment observed in these patients. Although these studies have been performed on small cohorts of patients without standardized protocols, it is plausible that in the future, such studies will help find early stage markers of cognitive impairment. This could permit an extension of indications for revascularization for the treatment of cognitive impairment in selected patients. The aim of this narrative review is to discuss the current knowledge on the effects of ECAS on brain and cognition by analyzing the main evidence from animal and clinical studies, with a special focus on rs-fc MR studies.

Citation: Porcu M, et al. Extracranial Carotid Artery Stenosis: The Effects on Brain and Cognition with a Focus on Resting-State Functional Connectivity. Extracranial Carotid Artery Stenosis: The Effects on Brain and Cognition with a Focus on Resting-State Functional Connectivity. 2020; 30:736-745. doi: 10.1111/jon.12777

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32866351/
