PMID: 32879855
Title: Impaired cerebral hemodynamics in late-onset depression: computed tomography angiography, computed tomography perfusion, and magnetic resonance imaging evaluation.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Late-onset depression (LOD) is often difficult to recognize when there is an absence of a family history of depression and less severe psychopathology. Increasing evidence has shown that the development and course of LOD symptomatology are associated with cerebrovascular comorbidities and cerebral microvascular lesions. This study was designed to evaluate the associations of LOD with macrovascular and microvascular changes in the brain by using a multi-imaging method, including computed tomography angiography (CTA), CT perfusion (CTP), and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), to explore the course and pathomechanism of LOD.
METHODS: A total of 116 participants were divided into two groups. Participants older than 60 years who met the diagnostic criteria of depression [International Classification of Diseases (ICD), 10th Edition] were enrolled in the LOD group, and the remainder were age- and sex-matched into the control group. The cognitive/mood status of all participants was evaluated by an experienced neuropsychologist. Global and regional mean cerebral blood flow (CBF) were measured by CT cerebrovascular perfusion imaging; the stenosis of the bilateral intracranial large arteries (internal carotid artery, anterior cerebral artery, middle cerebral artery, posterior cerebral artery, and vertebral artery) was recorded by CTA; regional white matter hyperintensity (WMH) loads were evaluated by fluid-attenuated inversion recovery (FLAIR) MRI; and the Hamilton Depression Scale (HAMD) was used to evaluate depression status.
RESULTS: Our key findings were the following: (I) participants in the LOD group were more prone to intracranial arterial stenosis (81.1% vs. 74.6%), had more severe stenotic arteries compared with controls (Z=2.024, P&lt;0.05), and significantly more participants with LOD had severe stenosis of the middle cerebral artery (MCA) (9.4% vs. 0%, P&lt;0.05); (II) there was a significant difference in hypoperfusion of the frontal and parietal lobes superposed on global cerebral hypoperfusion between the two groups (P&lt;0.001); (III) and there was a significant difference in high WMH loads in deep white matter (DWM) between the two groups (P&lt;0.05).
CONCLUSIONS: A low global or regional perfusion state, moderate-to-severe stenosis of MCAs, and high WMH loads could be used as imaging biomarkers to indicate diffuse or localized cerebral macrovascular and microvascular pathology in LOD.

Citation: Wang J, et al. Impaired cerebral hemodynamics in late-onset depression: computed tomography angiography, computed tomography perfusion, and magnetic resonance imaging evaluation. Impaired cerebral hemodynamics in late-onset depression: computed tomography angiography, computed tomography perfusion, and magnetic resonance imaging evaluation. 2020; 10:1763-1774. doi: 10.21037/qims-19-402

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32879855/
