PMID: 32871127
Title: Lymphogranuloma Venereum in a Public Health Service Hospital in Southern Spain: A Clinical and Epidemiologic Study.

Abstract: UNLABELLED: Lymphogranuloma venereum (LGV) is an emerging disease in men who have sex with men (MSM): the incidence was 1.15 cases per 100,000 population in Spain in 2017. Patients with LGV characteristically have severe proctitis that can cause abscesses, fistulas, and anal stenosis. Genital ulcers and inflammatory inguinal adenopathy may occasionally be present. The aim of this study was to describe a series of patients with LGV treated in a public health service hospital in Andalusia, Spain.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: Retrospective, observational description of a series of patients diagnosed with LGV. We gathered epidemiologic, clinical, microbiologic, and treatment data. Patients' sexual behaviors were also noted.
RESULTS: We found 17 cases of LGV diagnosed in MSM between October 2016 and May 2019. Twelve of the patients were also infected with the human immunodeficiency virus, and 13 had severe proctitis with ulcers in the anal canal and rectum. Four patients had genital or inguinal manifestations. The following high-risk sexual behaviors were on record: a high number of sexual partners, receptive anal sex with strangers and without a condom, seeking sexual partners online, participation in group sex, and sex with partners from outside Andalusia. Chlamydia trachomatis serovar L2 was identified in all cases, and the infection responded well to oral doxycycline. Two patients with the most characteristic form of LGV required longer treatment cycles. Three required surgery.
CONCLUSIONS: When symptomatic proctitis is found in MSM who engage in high-risk sex, the LGV exudate should be sampled and the C trachomatis serovar identified. Genital ulcers or inguinal buboes are also highly suggestive of LGV. Clinical suspicion and early treatment are the keys to preventing complications and disease transmission.

Citation: Repiso-Jiménez JB, et al. Lymphogranuloma Venereum in a Public Health Service Hospital in Southern Spain: A Clinical and Epidemiologic Study. Lymphogranuloma Venereum in a Public Health Service Hospital in Southern Spain: A Clinical and Epidemiologic Study. 2020; 111:743-751. doi: 10.1016/j.ad.2020.02.006

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32871127/
