PMID: 32873267
Title: Multiple inferior vena cava aneurysms mimic a retroperitoneal tumor: a case report.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Inferior vena cava (IVC) aneurysms are extremely rare with variable clinical manifestations. Patients are usually asymptomatic or present with complications of thrombosis and rupture. To date, there have been only a few reports of the condition in the literature, and diagnosis of IVC aneurysms may be difficult.
CASE PRESENTATION: A 33-year-old male patient presented to hospital because of a retroperitoneal mass found by computerized tomography during a health examination. He was asymptomatic, and post medical history and physical examination were unremarkable. Laboratory tests including tests for paraganglioma were all negative. Contrast-enhanced computed tomography scan revealed a stenosis of IVC in the suprarenal segment and two retroperitoneal mass on the right side of IVC. The larger one is about 3 cm in diameter and the smaller one is about 1 cm in diameter, which was considered as a retroperitoneal tumor with an enlarged lymph node. However, two IVC diverticular aneurysms were confirmed during the retroperitoneal laparoscopic exploration. The larger aneurysm was resected from the IVC successfully. Since the smaller aneurysm was about 1 cm in diameter without thrombosis, we did not resect it during surgery. The patient recovered well from surgery and discharged from our department successfully.
CONCLUSIONS: This is the first report of multiple IVC aneurysms. Because of the extremely low prevalence of IVC diverticular aneurysm, it may be misdiagnosed as other disease. Due to the high rate of thrombosis, surgical treatment especially retroperitoneal laparoscopy is recommended for small diverticular aneurysms.

Citation: Zuo Y, et al. Multiple inferior vena cava aneurysms mimic a retroperitoneal tumor: a case report. Multiple inferior vena cava aneurysms mimic a retroperitoneal tumor: a case report. 2020; 20:137. doi: 10.1186/s12894-020-00703-5

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32873267/
