PMID: 32888838
Title: CT-Overlay Hybrid Imaging to Facilitate Sentinel Cerebral Protection System Deployment in the Presence of an Anomalous Vertebral Artery Originating From the Aortic Arch During Transcatheter Aortic Valve Implantation.

Abstract: Stroke remains an important risk during transcatheter aortic valve implantation (TAVI). Though the use of the double-filter Sentinel cerebral protection system (Boston Scientific, Marlborough, MA, USA) may lower the stroke risk, the deployment of this device requires manipulation within the aortic arch and cranial arch vessels potentially causing dislodgment of atherosclerotic debris in the process thereby possibly offsetting its benefit with regards to reducing cerebral embolization. Apart from patient selection, minimizing maneuvering during deployment may improve the safety of device deployment. In this context, we illustrate a case using three-dimensional computed tomography (CT) - overlay to facilitate Sentinel cerebral protection system deployment during TAVI. Emphasis in this case rests on demonstration of how aforementioned periprocedural imaging may facilitate negotiation of anatomical variants and avoid inadvertent cannulation of an anomalous left vertebral artery originating from the aortic arch. Imaging guidance with this concept may minimize device manipulation and reduce the risk of cerebral embolization. Further systematic evaluation is needed to demonstrate whether this approach improves clinical outcomes.

Citation: Mbai M, et al. CT-Overlay Hybrid Imaging to Facilitate Sentinel Cerebral Protection System Deployment in the Presence of an Anomalous Vertebral Artery Originating From the Aortic Arch During Transcatheter Aortic Valve Implantation. CT-Overlay Hybrid Imaging to Facilitate Sentinel Cerebral Protection System Deployment in the Presence of an Anomalous Vertebral Artery Originating From the Aortic Arch During Transcatheter Aortic Valve Implantation. 2021; 28S:158-160. doi: 10.1016/j.carrev.2020.07.034

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32888838/
