PMID: 32897933
Title: A short-term oral corticosteroid for refractory lumbar spinal stenosis: a double-blinded randomized placebo-controlled clinical trial.

Abstract: Although epidural corticosteroids have been evaluated for the lumbar spinal stenosis (LSS) as an alternative treatment, oral corticosteroids have not been considered as a possible option for the patients with constant pain who have resistant against routine treatments. Therefore, this study aimed to investigate the efficacy of the short-term, low-dose oral prednisolone for refractory LSS. In this double-blinded randomized placebo-controlled clinical trial, 100 participants with the refractory LSS were selected from the out-patient clinics; however, 7 of them excluded before randomization. The patients were randomly allocated into two groups with a 1:1 ratio: the intervention group that received 10 mg prednisolone per day for 1 week and the control group that received the exact placebo. The patients' severity of pain in terms of the numerical rating scale, ability to walk in meters, and Oswestry Disability Index (ODI) were assessed and then compared to the baseline after 2 months. The baseline variables were NS between these two groups. At the 2-month follow-up, the ability to walk in meters has increased and the severity of pain and ODI have decreased in both groups. Notably, except for the walking distance, none of the differences were statistically significant. Except for the significant change in walking distance between the groups, no other significant difference was observed in any variables when comparing the delta of each variable (after-before). One-week treatment with daily 10 mg oral prednisolone was not effective on the patients with refractory LSS in the short-term follow-up.

Citation: Akbari Aghdam H, et al. A short-term oral corticosteroid for refractory lumbar spinal stenosis: a double-blinded randomized placebo-controlled clinical trial. A short-term oral corticosteroid for refractory lumbar spinal stenosis: a double-blinded randomized placebo-controlled clinical trial. 2020; 43:342-346. doi: 10.1097/MRR.0000000000000432

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32897933/
