PMID: 32899125
Title: Critical Involvement of Calcium-Dependent Cytosolic Phospholipase A2α in Aortic Valve Interstitial Cell Calcification.

Abstract: The involvement of calcium-dependent cytosolic phospholipase A2α (cPLA2α) in aortic valve calcification is not exhaustively elucidated. Here, cPLA2α expression in aortic valve interstitial cell (AVIC) pro-calcific cultures simulating either metastatic or dystrophic calcification was estimated by qPCR, Western blotting, and counting of cPLA2α-immunoreactive cells, with parallel ultrastructural examination of AVIC calcific degeneration. These evaluations also involved pro-calcific AVIC cultures treated with cPLA2α inhibitor dexamethasone. cPLA2α over-expression resulted for both types of pro-calcific AVIC cultures. Compared to controls, enzyme content was found to increase by up to 300% and 186% in metastatic and dystrophic calcification-like cultures, respectively. Increases in mRNA amounts were also observed, although they were not as striking as those in enzyme content. Moreover, cPLA2α increases were time-dependent and strictly associated with mineralization progression. Conversely, drastically lower levels of enzyme content resulted for the pro-calcific AVIC cultures supplemented with dexamethasone. In particular, cPLA2α amounts were found to decrease by almost 88% and 48% in metastatic and dystrophic calcification-like cultures, respectively, with mRNA amounts showing a similar trend. Interestingly, these drastic decreases in cPLA2α amounts were paralleled by drastic decreases in mineralization degrees, as revealed ultrastructurally. In conclusion, cPLA2α may be regarded as a crucial co-factor contributing to AVIC mineralization in vitro, thus being an attractive potential target for designing novel therapeutic strategies aimed to counteract onset or progression of calcific aortic valve diseases.

Citation: Bonetti A, et al. Critical Involvement of Calcium-Dependent Cytosolic Phospholipase A2α in Aortic Valve Interstitial Cell Calcification. Critical Involvement of Calcium-Dependent Cytosolic Phospholipase A2α in Aortic Valve Interstitial Cell Calcification. 2020; 21:(unknown pages). doi: 10.3390/ijms21176398

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32899125/
