PMID: 32895054
Title: Ultrasound imaging of carotid web with atherosclerosis plaque: a case report.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: To the best of our knowledge, no previous studies on carotid webs with atherosclerosis plaque have been conducted. Thus, both radiologists and clinicians have insufficient knowledge of this disease, which could lead to misdiagnosis and missed diagnosis. An accurate diagnosis is beneficial to clinical management and prevention of stroke. Here, we present a case of a carotid web with an atherosclerotic plaque, which was confirmed by histopathology and was treated at the Department of Neurosurgery, Beijing Tiantan Hospital.
CASE PRESENTATION: We report a rare case of a carotid web with an atherosclerotic plaque in a 61-year-old Han man. He presented to our hospital with history of intermittent dizziness and slurred speech for 1.5 years and numbness of both upper limbs for 4 months. A computed tomography angiography examination indicated severe stenosis at the beginning of the left internal carotid artery with plaque surface ulceration. Doppler ultrasound examination showed a carotid web with a thin isoechoic plaque and a membrane-like structure protruding into the lumen from the lateral posterior wall at the beginning of the left internal carotid artery. The thin isoechoic plaque could be seen at the base of the membrane-like structure. Carotid endarterectomy was performed to alleviate symptoms. A carotid web with atherosclerosis was diagnosed intraoperatively, and postoperative pathology confirmed extensive intima fibroid hyperplasia accompanied with myxoid degeneration. The base of the carotid web was attached to the thin atherosclerosis plaque, and between the web and the plaque, a cavity was observed. In this case report, we aim to discuss the diagnosis of carotid web with atherosclerosis, its physiopathology and management, and the possible reasons for missed diagnosis or misdiagnosis.
CONCLUSION: Carotid webs with atherosclerosis have no known etiological factors and are rarely reported. Thus, carotid webs could be easily confused with ulcerations on the surface of the atherosclerosis plaque. The diagnosis could be difficult and effective management remains indeterminate. Moreover, prompt recognition of this disease is key to correct treatment and management. Hence, this case report and the relevant data in the literature could contribute to the improvement of the diagnosis and treatment of this disease.

Citation: Ning B, et al. Ultrasound imaging of carotid web with atherosclerosis plaque: a case report. Ultrasound imaging of carotid web with atherosclerosis plaque: a case report. 2020; 14:145. doi: 10.1186/s13256-020-02446-1

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32895054/
