PMID: 32906227
Title: Modified Suturing Techniques in Carotid Endarterectomy for Reducing the Cerebral Ischemic Time.

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: Carotid endarterectomy (CEA) is an effective surgical procedure for treating symptomatic or asymptomatic patients with carotid stenosis. Many neurosurgeons use a shunt to reduce perioperative ischemic complications. However, the use of shunting is still controversial, and the shunt procedure can cause several complications. In our institution, we used two types of modified arteriotomy suture techniques instead of using a shunt.
METHODS: In technique 1, to prevent ischemic complications, we sutured a third of the arteriotomy site from both ends after removing the plaque. Afterward, the unsutured middle third was isolated from the arterial lumen by placing a curved Satinsky clamp. And then, we opened all the clamped carotid arteries before finishing the suture. In technique 2, we sutured the arteriotomy site at the common carotid artery (CCA). We then placed a curved Satinsky clamp crossing from the sutured site to the carotid bifurcation, isolating the unsutured site at the internal carotid artery (ICA). After placing the Satinsky clamp, the CCA and external carotid artery (ECA) were opened to allow blood flow from CCA to ECA. By opening the ECA, ECA collateral flow via ECA-ICA anastomoses could help to reduce cerebral ischemia.
RESULTS: The modified suture methods can reduce the cerebral ischemia directly (technique 1) or via using collaterals (technique 2). The modified arteriotomy suture techniques are simple, safe, and applicable to almost all cases of CEA.
CONCLUSION: Two modified arteriotomy suture techniques could reduce perioperative ischemic complications by reducing the cerebral ischemic time.

Citation: Joo SP, et al. Modified Suturing Techniques in Carotid Endarterectomy for Reducing the Cerebral Ischemic Time. Modified Suturing Techniques in Carotid Endarterectomy for Reducing the Cerebral Ischemic Time. 2020; 63:834-840. doi: 10.3340/jkns.2020.0058

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32906227/
