PMID: 32917391
Title: Outcomes of Heart Transplantation in Cardiac Amyloidosis Patients: A Single Center Experience.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Indications for heart transplantation are expanding to include amyloid light chain (AL) and transthyretin-related (TTR) amyloidosis. Previously, AL amyloid had been a contraindication to heart transplantation given inferior outcomes. These patients typically have biventricular failure requiring mechanical circulatory support (MCS). We report the outcomes of patients with end-stage cardiac amyloidosis who underwent cardiac transplantation, including some who were bridged to transplantation with a durable biventricular MCS METHODS: The records for patients with cardiac amyloidosis who underwent cardiac transplant between 2010 and 2018 were reviewed. Primary endpoint was post-transplant 1-year survival. Secondary endpoints included 1-year freedom from cardiac allograft vasculopathy (as defined by stenosisʳ 30% by angiography), nonfatal major adverse cardiac events (myocardial infarction, new congestive heart failure, percutaneous coronary intervention, implantable cardioverter defibrillator/pacemaker implant, stroke), and any rejection.
RESULTS: A total of 46 patients received heart transplantation with a diagnosis of either AL or TTR amyloidosis. Of these, 7 patients were bridged to transplantation with a durable biventricular MCS device (6 AL, 1 TTR) and 39 patients were transplanted without MCS bridging. The MCS group consisted of 5 total artificial hearts and 2 biventricular assist devices. The 1-year survival was 91% for the entire cohort, 83% for those with AL amyloidosis, 94% for those with TTR amyloidosis, and 86% for those who received MCS bridging.
CONCLUSIONS: Cardiac transplantation can be safely performed in selected amyloidosis patients with reasonable short-term outcomes. Those bridged to transplantation with biventricular MCS appear to have short-term outcomes similar to those transplanted without MCS. Larger numbers and longer observation are required to confirm these findings.

Citation: Chen Q, et al. Outcomes of Heart Transplantation in Cardiac Amyloidosis Patients: A Single Center Experience. Outcomes of Heart Transplantation in Cardiac Amyloidosis Patients: A Single Center Experience. 2021; 53:329-334. doi: 10.1016/j.transproceed.2020.08.020

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32917391/
