PMID: 32919465
Title: Triglyceride glucose index for the detection of asymptomatic coronary artery stenosis in patients with type 2 diabetes.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Triglyceride Glucose (TyG) index has been associated with an increased risk in cardiovascular events. Silent coronary disease is common in patients with type 2 diabetes. In Vietnam, a low-middle income country, the burden of cardiovascular disease is growing simultaneously with the epidemiologic transition. Our aim was to assess the prevalence of coronary stenoses (CS) in patients with type 2 diabetes and no history or symptom of cardiovascular disease and to investigate the association between TyG index and cardiovascular risk factors and both the presence and severity of CS. Futhermore, we assessed the value of TyG index in predicting subclinical CS.
METHODS: This was a cross-sectional observational study. We recruited 166 patients at Ninh Thuan General Hospital, Vietnam. TyG index and HOMA-IR were calculated, and a coronary computed tomography angiography (CCTA) was performed.
RESULTS: The population was classified according to tertiles of TyG index. The highest TyG values were associated with higher BMI, waist circumference, total cholesterol, LDL-cholesterol, triglycerides, plasma glucose, HbA1c levels and HOMA-IR, lower HDL-cholesterol, a higher incidence of metabolic syndrome and less frequent physical activity (p < 0.05 to < 0.0001). TyG index correlated with logHOMA-IR (p < 0.0001). CS ≥ 50% were present in 60 participants and 32 had coronary artery stenosis ≥ 70%. TyG index and HOMA-IR were significantly higher in patients with CS ≥ 70%. The number of narrowed coronary arteries and the degree of stenosis were associated with higher TyG index levels (p = 0.04 and < 0.005 respectively). A TyG index ≥ 10 was significantly associated with an increased risk of multiple coronary artery disease and of more severe CS. After adjusting for confounding factors, including logHOMA-IR, these risks remained mostly significant. A TyG index threshold at 10 resulted in 57% sensitivity and 75% specificity for predicting the presence of CS ≥ 70%. In subgroup analysis TyG index ≥ 10 was associated with an increased risk in CS ≥ 70% in patients treated with statin or antiplatelet therapy.
CONCLUSION: More than one third of asymptomatic patients with type 2 diabetes had significant CS on CCTA. TyG index may be considered as a marker for insulin resistance and increased TyG index could identify patients with high risk of coronary artery stenoses and is associated with the number and the severity of artery stenoses.

Citation: Thai PV, et al. Triglyceride glucose index for the detection of asymptomatic coronary artery stenosis in patients with type 2 diabetes. Triglyceride glucose index for the detection of asymptomatic coronary artery stenosis in patients with type 2 diabetes. 2020; 19:137. doi: 10.1186/s12933-020-01108-2

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32919465/
