PMID: 32913546
Title: Nintedanib ameliorates tracheal stenosis by activating HDAC2 and suppressing IL-8 and VEGF in rabbit.

Abstract: Acquired tracheal stenosis is a common disease occurring after endotracheal intubation or tracheotomy. Currently, surgery is the main option to treat the stenosis. This study investigated therapeutic effect and possible mechanism of nintedanib on tracheal stenosis. The rabbit models of tracheal stenosis were established and were administered with nintedanib and budesonide. The damage and repair of the tracheal tissue were determined using hematoxylin and eosin (HE) staining. The expression of histone deacetylase 2 (HDAC2), interleukin-8 (IL-8) and vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) was detected by real-time quantitative reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR), Western Blot and immunofluorescence assay. The expression of collagens I and III was assayed immunohistochemically. Remarkable tracheal stenosis was observed after the trachea was brushed in the rabbit model. Compared with control, the stenosis was improved after nintedanib treatment. The mRNA of HDAC2 was increased and that of IL-8 and VEGF was decreased significantly in the tracheal tissue following nintedanib treatment. Western blot analysis showed that HDAC2 increased to the level similar to that of control while VEGF remained unchanged following nintedanib treatment. Budesonide treatment also resulted in increased HDAC2 expression and decreased IL-8 and VEGF expression. Immunofluorescence assays also showed an increased HDAC2 expression following nintedanib treatment. Collagens I and III decreased significantly after nintedanib treatment in the tracheal tissues of models. Therefore, it is concluded that nintedanib alleviates the acquired tracheal stenosis by activating HDAC2 expression and suppressing IL-8 and VEGF expression, and may offer new option to medical treatment for the disease.

Citation: Wei P, et al. Nintedanib ameliorates tracheal stenosis by activating HDAC2 and suppressing IL-8 and VEGF in rabbit. Nintedanib ameliorates tracheal stenosis by activating HDAC2 and suppressing IL-8 and VEGF in rabbit. 2020; 12:4739-4748.

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32913546/
