PMID: 32913857
Title: Follow-up study on symptom distress in esophageal cancer patients undergoing repeated dilation.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Repeated endoscopic probe dilatation is the most preferred treatment for esophageal stenosis which may cause high levels of symptom distress in the patient's home rehabilitation stage.
AIM: To explore the changes in the symptom distress level and its correlation with the dilation effect in patients with esophageal carcinoma undergoing repeated dilations for lumen stenosis.
METHODS: The difference (R2-R1) between the diameter of the esophageal stenosis opening (R1) of the patients before dilation (R1) and after dilation (R2) was calculated to describe the extent and expansion of the esophageal stenosis before and after dilation. The M.D. Anderson Symptom Inventory was used to describe the symptom distress level of patients with dilation intermittence during their stay at home and to explore the correlation between the dilation effect and symptom distress level.
RESULTS: The diameter of the esophagus (R1) increased before each dilation in patients undergoing esophageal dilation (P &lt; 0.05). The diameter (R2) increased after dilation (P &lt; 0.05); the dilation effect (R2-R1) decreased with the number of dilations (P &lt; 0.05). The total symptom distress score significantly increased with the number of dilations (P &lt; 0.05). The symptom distress scores of the patients were negatively correlated (P &lt; 0.05) with the previous dilation effect (R2-R1) and the esophageal diameter (R2) after the previous dilation. After the 1st to 4th dilations, the patient's symptom distress score was negatively correlated with the esophageal diameter (R12) before the next dilation, while there was no significant correlation (P &gt; 0.05) with the other dilations.
CONCLUSION: In patients who have undergone repeated dilations, better effect stands for lower symptom distress level and the increase in symptom distress has a prompt effect on the severity of the next occurrence of restenosis.

Citation: Liu L, et al. Follow-up study on symptom distress in esophageal cancer patients undergoing repeated dilation. Follow-up study on symptom distress in esophageal cancer patients undergoing repeated dilation. 2020; 8:3503-3514. doi: 10.12998/wjcc.v8.i16.3503

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32913857/
