PMID: 32914454
Title: Safety and feasibility of dobutamine stress echocardiography in symptomatic high gradient aortic stenosis patients scheduled for transcatheter aortic valve implantation.

Abstract: PURPOSE: We aimed to study the safety and feasibility of low-dose dobutamine stress echocardiography in a symptomatic high gradient aortic stenosis population scheduled for transfemoral transcatheter aortic valve implantation (TAVI) and to quantify left ventricular (LV) flow reserve.
METHODS: Fifty patients underwent dobutamine stress echocardiography with 5 minutes increments of 5 μg/kg/min up to 20 μg/kg/min until the heart rate increased ≥20 beats/min from baseline or exceeded 100 beats/min. Other criteria for discontinuing the infusion were major adverse events: ventricular arrhythmia, persistent supraventricular arrhythmia, pulmonary edema, chest pain with significant ST-changes, or minor events: ST-changes, drop in systolic blood pressure >30 mmHg, mild chest pain, and/or dyspnea. LV flow reserve was defined as an increase in stroke volume ≥20% during the test.
RESULTS: Of 50 patients, 45 completed the test according to protocol. No patient had major adverse event. Five patients experienced minor side effects: mild chest pain/dyspnea in three, self-terminating atrial flutter in one, and decrease in blood pressure in one. Significant LV flow reserve was observed in 20 patients (40%).
CONCLUSION: Low-dose dobutamine stress test appeared safe and feasible patients with high gradient aortic stenosis, and showed LV flow reserve in a minority of them.

Citation: Saevik M, et al. Safety and feasibility of dobutamine stress echocardiography in symptomatic high gradient aortic stenosis patients scheduled for transcatheter aortic valve implantation. Safety and feasibility of dobutamine stress echocardiography in symptomatic high gradient aortic stenosis patients scheduled for transcatheter aortic valve implantation. 2021; 49:38-48. doi: 10.1002/jcu.22915

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32914454/
