PMID: 32924632
Title: Transdural circumferential decompression for thoracic spinal stenosis caused by beak-type ossification of the posterior longitudinal ligament: a technical note.

Abstract: PURPOSE: Thoracic myelopathy caused by ossification of the posterior longitudinal ligament (OPLL) in the thoracic spine is usually progressive and responds poorly to conservative therapy, making surgery the only effective treatment option. A variety of surgical procedures have been developed to treat thoracic OPLL. However, the optimal surgical approach for removal of thoracic OPLL remains unclear. In the present study, we described a newly modified posterior approach for the removal of OPLL: circular decompression via dural approach, and complete removal of OPLL can be achieved under direct vision and without neurological deficit.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Three patients with beak-type thoracic OPLL presented with progressive thoracic myelopathy and leg weakness. Magnetic resonance imaging showed the spinal cord severely compressed. The surgical management of the three patients involved the 'cave-in' circular decompression and transdural resection of OPLL.
RESULTS: Transdural circumferential decompression was successfully performed in all three patients. Clinical outcome measures, including pre- and postoperative radiographic parameters, were assessed. All of the patients were followed up for an average of 12 months (ranging from 10 to 15 months), and no surgery-related complications occurred. Weakness relief and neural function recovery were satisfactorily achieved in all patients by the final follow-up.
CONCLUSIONS: Transdural circumferential decompression was an effective method for thoracic spinal stenosis caused by concurrent beak-type OPLL, by which OPLL could be safely removed. It is especially useful when there is a severe adhesion between the dura OPLL.

Citation: Wang ZC, et al. Transdural circumferential decompression for thoracic spinal stenosis caused by beak-type ossification of the posterior longitudinal ligament: a technical note. Transdural circumferential decompression for thoracic spinal stenosis caused by beak-type ossification of the posterior longitudinal ligament: a technical note. 2023; 37:1371-1374. doi: 10.1080/02688697.2020.1820942

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32924632/
