PMID: 32928627
Title: The relationship of body composition indices with the significance, extension and severity of coronary artery disease.

Abstract: BACKGROUND AND AIMS: It is still unclear which anthropometric parameter is most associated with significant coronary artery disease (CAD). We examined the relationship of the prevalence and severity of coronary artery disease with body composition indices.
METHODS AND RESULTS: Patients aged 18-80 years who were admitted to the cardiology outpatient clinic with any complaints, and were indicated for coronary angiography as a result of the examinations, were included in this study and divided into two groups. Group 1 had significant stenosis (161 patients, 104 males, mean age: 64.1 ± 10.5 years), while Group 2 had non-significant stenosis (75 patients, 48 males, mean age: 58.9 ± 11.8 years). Significant stenosis was defined as narrowing of 50% or more of the arterial lumens in any vessel or its lateral branch. Height, weight, waist and hip circumferences and body composition indices of all patients were measured. The SYNTAX and Gensini scores were calculated for all patients undergoing angiography. Group 1 had significantly higher waist circumferences (WC), body roundness indices (BRI), body fat percentages, and waist/height ratios than Group 2. In the correlation analysis, WC, BRI, waist/hip ratio and waist/height ratio were significantly correlated with the Gensini score. WC, hip circumference, BRI, body fat percentage and waist/height ratio were significantly correlated with the SYNTAX score. In the multivariate regression analysis, BRI was the parameter best related to significant CAD.
CONCLUSION: BRI, body fat percentage, waist circumference and waist/height ratio were higher in patients with significant stenosis. BRI was the parameter most closely related to the Gensini and SYNTAX scores and to significant CAD.

Citation: Yalcin G, et al. The relationship of body composition indices with the significance, extension and severity of coronary artery disease. The relationship of body composition indices with the significance, extension and severity of coronary artery disease. 2020; 30:2279-2285. doi: 10.1016/j.numecd.2020.07.014

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32928627/
