PMID: 32926577
Title: Efficacy of a modified short fully covered self-expandable metal stent for perihilar benign biliary strictures.

Abstract: BACKGROUND AND AIM: Endoscopic management of a benign biliary stricture (BBS) on the hilum is complicated and challenging. Although the placement of a fully covered self-expandable metal stent (FCSEMS) is possible to increase effectiveness, stent migration and stent-induced adverse events are problematic. We aimed to evaluate the usefulness of a modified short FCSEMS with a long lasso in patients with a difficult perihilar BBS.
METHODS: Patients with perihilar BBS within 2 cm from the hilar confluence that failed initially with plastic stents were enrolled. A modified short FCSEMS was deployed and then removed 5-6 months later. The primary outcome was clinical success. Other technical success, adverse events, endoscopic success of stent removal, and recurrence of stricture during the follow-up period were measured.
RESULTS: Endoscopic intraductal placement was technically successful in all patients (n = 19). Combined contralateral plastic stent placement was performed in 13 patients (68.4%). The median duration of stent placement was 163 days (range, 138-196 days). Endoscopic stent removal was successful in all patients except one spontaneous distal migration. Stricture resolution without de novo focal stricture occurrence was 100%. Endoscopic stone removal after stricture improvement was successful in all 13 patients with bile duct stones above the stricture. During a follow-up period (median 635 days) after stent removal, only one recurrence developed.
CONCLUSIONS: Temporary placement of a modified intraductal short FCSEMS with or without a contralateral plastic stent improved perihilar BBS in patients that primarily failed by plastic stents. Combined biliary stones were also successfully removed after stricture resolution.

Citation: Lee TH, et al. Efficacy of a modified short fully covered self-expandable metal stent for perihilar benign biliary strictures. Efficacy of a modified short fully covered self-expandable metal stent for perihilar benign biliary strictures. 2021; 36:1057-1063. doi: 10.1111/jgh.15258

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32926577/
