PMID: 32920538
Title: Use of pCONUS HPC for the treatment of unruptured wide-necked bifurcation aneurysms: early clinical experience using single antiplatelet therapy.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: In recent years, a growing number of stents and stent-like devices have become available to facilitate the treatment of challenging aneurysms. However, the need for dual antiplatelet therapy can limit their use, especially in ruptured aneurysms. The hydrophilic polymer coating (pHPC, phenox) is a novel glycan-based multilayer polymer that reduces platelet adhesion. This study aims to report our initial experience using the pCONUS HPC device for the treatment of unruptured wide-necked bifurcation aneurysms (WNBA) using acetylsalicylic acid (ASA) as single antiplatelet therapy (SAPT).
METHODS: We retrospectively identified all patients who were treated with the pCONUS HPC for unruptured WNBA in a multi-staged procedure using ASA as SAPT. Records were made of periprocedural complications, clinical outcome and angiographic and clinical follow-up.
RESULTS: We identified 15 patients with 15 WNBA. The average age was 69 years old (range, 41-76). Seven aneurysms were located in the middle cerebral artery, five in the anterior communicating artery, two at the basilar tip and one in the posterior communicating artery. Immediate post-treatment angiography showed five aneurysms with modified Raymond-Roy classification (mRRC) grade I and four aneurysms with mRRC grade II. There were no haemorrhagic complications. Four patients developed thrombus formation during the second treatment session, all of them completely resolving after administration of glycoprotein IIb/IIIa antagonists. Angiographic follow-up data were available for 10 patients and showed adequate occlusion (mRRC I or II) in eight aneurysms (80%). In-stent stenosis was observed in one patient whereas two patients showed de novo stenosis in one of the efferent branches.
CONCLUSIONS: This early experience on the use of the pCONUS HPC device suggests that it can be useful for treating unruptured WNBA under ASA as SAPT. Further investigation with a randomised treatment registry and larger cohort is needed.

Citation: Aguilar Perez M, et al. Use of pCONUS HPC for the treatment of unruptured wide-necked bifurcation aneurysms: early clinical experience using single antiplatelet therapy. Use of pCONUS HPC for the treatment of unruptured wide-necked bifurcation aneurysms: early clinical experience using single antiplatelet therapy. 2021; 6:57-64. doi: 10.1136/svn-2020-000399

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32920538/
