PMID: 32921667
Title: Mid-term Clinical Outcomes of Immediate Protamine Use Following Elective Percutaneous Coronary Interventions.

Abstract: Bleeding complication has been considered as a serious problem in current percutaneous coronary interventions (PCI). Fortunately, several groups have already reported the effectiveness of protamine use just after PCI to immediately remove any arterial sheath. However, there is a concern that protamine reversal may increase non-occlusive thrombus and, in turn, lead to mid-term cardiovascular events such as target vessel revascularization (TVR) or stent thrombosis. Thus, the purpose of this study was to evaluate whether protamine use following elective PCI was associated with mid-term clinical outcomes. In total, 472 patients were included in this study; subsequently, they were divided into protamine group (n = 142) and non-protamine group (n = 330). The primary endpoint was the composite of ischemia-driven TVR and stent thrombosis. The median follow-up period was determined to be at 562 days. In total, 32 primary endpoints were observed during the study period, and the incidence of primary endpoints tended to be greater in the protamine group than in the non-protamine group (P = 0.056). However, the lesion length, the degree of calcification, and the prevalence of hemodialysis were significantly determined greater in the protamine group than in the non-protamine group. In the multivariate Cox proportional hazards model, the use of protamine (versus non-protamine: hazard ratio 0.542 and 95% confidence interval 0.217-1.355, P = 0.191) was deemed not to be associated with the primary endpoint after controlling legion length, calcification, and hemodialysis. In conclusion, immediate protamine use following elective PCI did not increase mid-term ischemia-driven TVR or stent thrombosis. However, immediate protamine use after PCI should be discussed further for the safety of the patient.

Citation: Kubota M, et al. Mid-term Clinical Outcomes of Immediate Protamine Use Following Elective Percutaneous Coronary Interventions. Mid-term Clinical Outcomes of Immediate Protamine Use Following Elective Percutaneous Coronary Interventions. 2020; 61:865-871. doi: 10.1536/ihj.20-126

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32921667/
