PMID: 32920158
Title: Thin Cervical Spinal Cord Between Ossifications of the Ligamentum Flavum and the Posterior Longitudinal Ligament: Case Report and Literature Review.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Cervical ossification of the ligamentum flavum (OLF) is a rare condition; however, the coexistence of OLF and ossification of the posterior longitudinal ligament (OPLL) is extremely uncommon. These can exist simultaneously and cause thinning of the cervical spinal cord. Sufficient decompression, dural ossification, semispinalis dissection, and postoperative kyphosis were evaluated. We report the successful treatment of coexisting cervical OLF and OPLL.
CASE DESCRIPTION: A 70-year-old man had been experiencing weakness in the left knee and clumsiness in the left hand for 6 months. Hemiparesis was considered; however, magnetic resonance imaging revealed a cervical spinal lesion. Hence a spine surgeon diagnosed the patient with severe stenosis with OLF at the C2-C3 levels and OPLL at the C2-C4 levels. The patient presented with spastic gait and left-hand motor weakness. Computed tomography scan revealed the disappearance of the black line, indicating dural ossification surrounding the OLF. OPLL was observed in 61.5% of the C2 spinal canal. The K-line was (-); however, the alternative K-line between the C1 and C7 level was (+). Posterior laminectomy at the C2-C3 levels and laminoplasty at the C4-C7 levels with muscle preservation resulted in sufficient decompression. The patient's symptoms improved, and cervical alignment was maintained 2 years after surgery.
CONCLUSIONS: An alternative K-line comprised successful treatment for coexisting cervical OLF and OPLL. Surgeons must evaluate the severity of adhesion, damage of the paraspinal muscles, and necessity of posterior corrective surgery along with the patient's comorbidities and possible postoperative complications.

Citation: Ishikawa Y, et al. Thin Cervical Spinal Cord Between Ossifications of the Ligamentum Flavum and the Posterior Longitudinal Ligament: Case Report and Literature Review. Thin Cervical Spinal Cord Between Ossifications of the Ligamentum Flavum and the Posterior Longitudinal Ligament: Case Report and Literature Review. 2021; 145:83-88. doi: 10.1016/j.wneu.2020.09.033

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32920158/
