PMID: 32921664
Title: Balloon Valvuloplasty to Treat Adult Symptomatic Pulmonary Valve Stenosis with Sequential Follow-Up Using Cardiac Magnetic Resonance Imaging in Combination with Echocardiography.

Abstract: Pulmonary valve stenosis (PVS) accounts for approximately 10% of all congenital heart defects. Echocardiography and right heart catheterization are the gold standards for diagnosis of PVS and for assessing disease severity and responsiveness to treatment.Recently, cardiac magnetic resonance imaging (cMRI) has been established as an important tool to comprehensively evaluate cardiac structure and function; however, research into the usefulness of cMRI for PVS management is limited. Here, we describe a case of a 59-year-old female with isolated, severe PVS who was successfully treated with balloon pulmonary valvuloplasty (BPV) followed by sequential cMRI at 1 and 12 months. Exertional dyspnea and elevated plasma BNP concentration were observed 1 month after BPV; however, echocardiographic findings did not indicate recurrent stenosis or increased pulmonary valve regurgitation but an increase in mitral E/e'. cMRI demonstrated improved systolic forward flow and RV function with enlargement of LV volume, and the rapid increase in LV preload might be associated with the transient deterioration in symptoms and BNP level, which both gradually improved within 3 months after BPV. cMRI further depicted that a reduced RV mass index and increased RV cardiac output were achieved gradually during the follow-up period.In conclusion, cMRI in combination with echocardiography was sufficiently informative to follow-up this PVS patient both before and after BPV. cMRI is easily reproducible in adult patients; therefore, cMRI should be recommended for long-term follow-up in adult PVS patients.

Citation: Ishii S, et al. Balloon Valvuloplasty to Treat Adult Symptomatic Pulmonary Valve Stenosis with Sequential Follow-Up Using Cardiac Magnetic Resonance Imaging in Combination with Echocardiography. Balloon Valvuloplasty to Treat Adult Symptomatic Pulmonary Valve Stenosis with Sequential Follow-Up Using Cardiac Magnetic Resonance Imaging in Combination with Echocardiography. 2020; 61:1075-1078. doi: 10.1536/ihj.20-106

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32921664/
