PMID: 32929187
Title: Presence and severity of coronary artery disease in patients who achieved intensive blood pressure reduction at the time of coronary computed tomography angiography.

Abstract: Blood pressure (BP)-lowering treatment should be aimed at achieving intensive BP control. Coronary computed tomography angiography (CCTA) has become more widely available and enables the accurate noninvasive assessment of coronary artery stenosis for screening. The presence and severity of coronary artery disease (CAD) in patients who achieved intensive BP control at the time of CCTA were compared to those in patients without hypertension (HTN). Nine hundred eighty-five consecutive subjects who were clinically suspected of having CAD or who had at least one cardiac risk factor underwent CCTA. The patients were divided into four groups: patients without HTN (non-HTN group), hypertensive patients who underwent intensive BP lowering (intensive group, <130/80 mmHg), patients who underwent standard BP lowering (standard group, 130-139/80-89 mmHg) and patients with uncontrolled BP (uncontrolled group, >140/90 mmHg). Interestingly, %CAD in the Intensive group was significantly higher than that in patients without HTN. The Intensive group was older and had a higher body mass index, more significantly stenosed coronary vessels, lower levels of high-density lipoprotein cholesterol in the blood, and higher rates of dyslipidemia, diabetes, and anti-dyslipidemia and anti-diabetic medication use than the non-HTN group. The presence of CAD in the Intensive group was independently associated with age, male and smoking, whereas the presence of CAD in the non-HTN group was associated with age, male and family history. Finally, predictors of the number of VDs in the non-HTN and intensive BP-lowering groups were age, male, DL, and intensive BP lowering. In conclusion, these results suggest that hypertensive patients need more rigorous management of other coronary risk factors, despite receiving intensive BP-lowering treatment.

Citation: Tsukihashi Y, et al. Presence and severity of coronary artery disease in patients who achieved intensive blood pressure reduction at the time of coronary computed tomography angiography. Presence and severity of coronary artery disease in patients who achieved intensive blood pressure reduction at the time of coronary computed tomography angiography. 2021; 44:206-214. doi: 10.1038/s41440-020-00545-6

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32929187/
