PMID: 32943196
Title: Predictors of successful endoscopic management of caustic esophageal strictures in children: When to stop the dilatations?

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Caustic esophageal strictures are mainly managed by endoscopic dilatations. Cases that do not respond to the dilatations eventually require an esophageal replacement. The aim of our study was to identify factors that could allow us to predict if the dilatations will be successful or not.
METHODS: We retrospectively reviewed the chart of 100 patients with caustic esophageal injuries treated at our center between 2012 and 2019. Collected data included age, gender, type of caustic substance, duration of the dilatations, length and extent of the strictures, number and time interval between dilatations, presence of gastroesophageal reflux, occurrence of esophageal perforation, and outcome of the dilatation program.
RESULTS: The patient ages ranged from 1 to 8 years old. The overall success rate was 98.2% for patients with short strictures and 81.8% for patients with long strictures (>3 cm). A long stricture, a pharyngeal extension of the stricture, the occurrence of an esophageal perforation, and the presence of gastroesophageal reflux were strong predictors of the failure of the dilatation program. The median treatment time for the patients to achieve a cure was 5 months in cases of short strictures and 17 months in cases of long strictures. Within the subgroup of patients with long strictures, a dysphagia-free period within the first year of management of 8 weeks was associated with the success of the dilatation program.
CONCLUSION: A length of more than 3 cm, pharyngeal involvement, the occurrence of esophageal perforation, and the presence of gastroesophageal reflux are predictors of failure of dilatations for the management of caustic esophageal strictures. A dysphagia-free period of 8 weeks or more within the first year of dilatations is considered a predictor of success of dilatations in patients with long strictures.
LEVEL OF EVIDENCE: Level II.

Citation: El-Asmar KM and Allam AM. Predictors of successful endoscopic management of caustic esophageal strictures in children: When to stop the dilatations?. Predictors of successful endoscopic management of caustic esophageal strictures in children: When to stop the dilatations?. 2021; 56:1596-1599. doi: 10.1016/j.jpedsurg.2020.08.017

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32943196/
