PMID: 32956400
Title: Lessons learned from open laryngotracheal airway resection and primary anastomosis in high risk patients.

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: Laryngotracheal stenosis is one of the most difficult conditions treated by the Otolaryngologist. Open resection of stenosis with primary airway anastomosis is the definitive treatment for this condition. However, some patients are considered high risk candidates for open airway surgery and management and outcomes in this group have not been reported. The purpose of this investigation is to identify a series of high risk patients who underwent open laryngotracheal surgery and detail the lessons learned in regards to their post-operative course and outcomes.
METHODS: A retrospective cohort study of all patients that underwent airway resection and primary anastomosis over a fifteen-year period was performed. High-risk patients, those with medical comorbidities that impair wound healing, were identified. Post-operative course, management of complications, and ultimate airway outcomes were noted.
RESULTS: Seven patients fitting the high-risk category were identified. Comorbidities were poorly controlled insulin dependent diabetes mellitus (N = 4), poorly controlled hypertension (N = 4), end stage renal disease requiring hemodialysis (N = 3), chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (N = 1), and history of radiation therapy (N = 1). Each patient suffered postoperative complications of varying degrees including postoperative infection (N = 1), formation of granulation tissue at the anastomotic site (N = 3), and postoperative hematoma (N = 1). Management included treatment of infection and complications. Anastomotic dehiscence was managed with tracheostomy and T-tubes.
CONCLUSIONS: High-risk medical comorbidities may not be absolute contraindications for open laryngotracheal resection of airway stenosis. However, this experience emphasizes the importance of preoperative medical optimization and comprehensive postoperative care.

Citation: Dewan K, et al. Lessons learned from open laryngotracheal airway resection and primary anastomosis in high risk patients. Lessons learned from open laryngotracheal airway resection and primary anastomosis in high risk patients. 2020; 15:e0238426. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0238426

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32956400/
