PMID: 32951592
Title: Chemerin enhances the adhesion and migration of human endothelial progenitor cells and increases lipid accumulation in mice with atherosclerosis.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: The role of adipokines in the development of atherosclerosis (AS) has received increasing attention in recent years. This study aimed to explore the effects of chemerin on the functions of human endothelial progenitor cells (EPCs) and to investigate its role in lipid accumulation in ApoE-knockout (ApoE-/-) mice.
METHODS: EPCs were cultured and treated with chemerin together with the specific p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) inhibitor SB 203580 in a time- and dose-dependent manner. Changes in migration, adhesion, proliferation and the apoptosis rate of EPCs were detected. ApoE-/- mice with high-fat diet-induced AS were treated with chemerin with or without SB 203580. Weights were recorded, lipid indicators were detected, and tissues sections were stained.
RESULTS: The data showed that chemerin enhanced the adhesion and migration abilities of EPCs, and reduced the apoptosis ratio and that this effect might be mediated through the p38 MAPK pathway. Additionally, chemerin increased the instability of plaques. Compared with the control group and the inhibitor group, ApoE-/- mice treated with chemerin protein had more serious arterial stenosis, higher lipid contents in plaques and decreased collagen. Lipid accumulation in the liver and kidney and inflammation in the hepatic portal area were enhanced by treatment with chemerin, and the size of adipocytes also increased after chemerin treatment. In conclusion, chemerin can enhance the adhesion and migration abilities of human EPCs and reduce the apoptosis ratio. In animals, chemerin can increase lipid accumulation in atherosclerotic plaques and exacerbate plaques instability. At the same time, chemerin can cause abnormal lipid accumulation in the livers and kidneys of model animals. After specifically blocking the p38 MAPK pathway, the effect of chemerin was reduced.
CONCLUSIONS: In conclusion, this study showed that chemerin enhances the adhesion and migration abilities of EPCs and increases the instability of plaques and abnormal lipid accumulation in ApoE-/- mice. Furthermore, these effects might be mediated through the p38 MAPK pathway.

Citation: Jia J, et al. Chemerin enhances the adhesion and migration of human endothelial progenitor cells and increases lipid accumulation in mice with atherosclerosis. Chemerin enhances the adhesion and migration of human endothelial progenitor cells and increases lipid accumulation in mice with atherosclerosis. 2020; 19:207. doi: 10.1186/s12944-020-01378-5

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32951592/
