PMID: 32957721
Title: Full-Endoscopic Lumbar Interbody Fusion for Treating Lumbar Disc Degeneration Involving Disc Height Loss: Technical Report.

Abstract: Background and Objectives: Lumbar disc degeneration (LDD) is the main cause of lower back pain and leads to corresponding disc height loss. Although lumbar interbody fusion (LIF) is commonly used for treating LDD, several different treatment strategies are available. We performed a minimally invasive full-endoscopic LIF (FELIF) using a uniportal full-endoscopic system. Materials and Methods: FELIF was performed for 12 patients with LDD with disc-height loss using a 4.1 mm working channel endoscope and a newly developed slider for cage insertion. The mean age of the patients was 68.3 years; the patients presented with single vertebral level involvement. The Brandner's disc index was used for evaluating the postoperative increase in the disc height. Preoperative and postoperative leg pain was evaluated using the numerical rating scale (NRS) score. Results: The mean operation time for FELIF was 109.4 min. The mean duration of hospital stay after FELIF was 7.7 days. There were no operative and postoperative complications, even without drainage during the mean follow-up period of 6.2 months (range, 2-10 months). The Brandner's disc index improved statistically significant (p &gt; 0.01). The mean preoperative and postoperative NRS scores were 6.5 and 1.2, respectively. Conclusions: FELIF using a 4.1 mm working channel endoscope can be used for treating LDD with disc height loss. Radiculopathy caused by foraminal stenosis was the most suitable operative indication for FELIF.

Citation: Harakuni T, et al. Full-Endoscopic Lumbar Interbody Fusion for Treating Lumbar Disc Degeneration Involving Disc Height Loss: Technical Report. Full-Endoscopic Lumbar Interbody Fusion for Treating Lumbar Disc Degeneration Involving Disc Height Loss: Technical Report. 2020; 56:(unknown pages). doi: 10.3390/medicina56090478

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32957721/
