PMID: 32974444
Title: Transcatheter aortic valve implantation facilitated by right common carotid cut-down and innominate artery angioplasty with simultaneous right coronary artery vein graft percutaneous coronary intervention in a patient with mid aortic syndrome: a case report.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Transcatheter aortic valve implantation (TAVI) is most commonly performed via the femoral approach. Small caliber ilio-femoral arteries, severe calcification and tortuosity are often prohibitive reasons for TAVI via the femoral approach. Mid-aortic syndrome is a rare condition describing congenital or acquired coarctation of the abdominal aorta.
CASE SUMMARY: To the best of our knowledge, this case report describes the world's first TAVI in a patient with mid-aortic syndrome with challenging vascular access that would preclude conventional TAVI access routes. A 76-year-old woman with intermittent claudication, underwent work-up for axillo-bifemoral bypass, underwent a TAVI for incidental severe asymptomatic severe aortic stenosis via right common carotid TAVI facilitated by innominate artery angioplasty achieved vascular access for TAVI. Percutaneous coronary intervention to a right coronary artery vein graft was simultaneously performed via a left brachial artery cut down.
DISCUSSION: We demonstrate that complex angioplasty to coronary artery bypass grafts and the innominate artery alongside TAVI via a variety of arterial access sites is both safe and feasible.

Citation: Ghobrial MSA, et al. Transcatheter aortic valve implantation facilitated by right common carotid cut-down and innominate artery angioplasty with simultaneous right coronary artery vein graft percutaneous coronary intervention in a patient with mid aortic syndrome: a case report. Transcatheter aortic valve implantation facilitated by right common carotid cut-down and innominate artery angioplasty with simultaneous right coronary artery vein graft percutaneous coronary intervention in a patient with mid aortic syndrome: a case report. 2020; 4:1-5. doi: 10.1093/ehjcr/ytaa134

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32974444/
