PMID: 32972333
Title: C-C Motif Chemokine 8 promotes angiogenesis in vascular endothelial cells.

Abstract: OBJECTIVES: Angiogenesis is an important progress associated with several pathological situations. Several chemokines have been reported to act as regulators of angiogenesis. The current study aimed to find whether C-C Motif Chemokine 8 is involved in angiogenesis regulation.
METHODS: To verify whether C-C Motif Chemokine 8 is related to angiogenesis in plaques, carotid plaques were collected from patients with severe carotid stenosis and analysed using CD31 immunohistochemistry and real-time PCR. To further clarify the relation between C-C Motif Chemokine 8 and angiogenesis, human umbilical vein endothelium cells and human dermal microvascular endothelial cells were treated with C-C Motif Chemokine 8 in the presence or absence of C-C motif chemokine receptor 2-Ab and extracellular regulated MAP kinase 1/2 inhibition (FR180204). Proliferation and migration of human umbilical vein endothelium cells and human dermal microvascular endothelial cells were examined with Cell Counting Kit-8 and Transwell chamber assay, respectively. In vitro angiogenesis stimulated by C-C Motif Chemokine 8 was examined using tube formation assay. Ex vivo and in vivo angiogenesis were assessed by mice aortic ring assay and Matrigel plug assay, respectively. C-C motif chemokine receptors of human umbilical vein endothelium cells were examined with real-time PCR, and C-C motif chemokine receptor 1, C-C motif chemokine receptor 2, extracellular regulated MAP kinase 1/2 and phosphorylation-extracellular regulated MAP kinase 1/2 were examined with western blotting assay.
RESULTS: C-C Motif Chemokine 8 was increased in carotid plaques with severe angiogenesis in both RNA and protein level. C-C Motif Chemokine 8 (5 ng/ml) weakly increased human umbilical vein endothelium cell proliferation, but not on human dermal microvascular endothelial cells. Migration and tube formation could be induced by C-C Motif Chemokine 8 in both human umbilical vein endothelium cells and human dermal microvascular endothelial cells. In mice aortic ring assay and Matrigel plug assay, C-C Motif Chemokine 8 could promote angiogenesis compared to vehicle groups. Phosphorylation of extracellular regulated MAP kinase 1/2 was increased with C-C Motif Chemokine 8 stimulation. The migration and tube formation promoted by C-C Motif Chemokine 8 could be largely blocked by C-C motif chemokine receptor 2-Ab or extracellular regulated MAP kinase 1/2 inhibition (FR180204).
CONCLUSIONS: C-C Motif Chemokine 8 could promote both in vitro and in vivo angiogenesis. C-C motif chemokine receptor 2 played an important role in the activation of C-C Motif Chemokine 8 and extracellular regulated MAP kinase 1/2 signalling pathway was involved in this mechanism.

Citation: Xue S, et al. C-C Motif Chemokine 8 promotes angiogenesis in vascular endothelial cells. C-C Motif Chemokine 8 promotes angiogenesis in vascular endothelial cells. 2021; 29:429-441. doi: 10.1177/1708538120959972

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32972333/
