PMID: 32972445
Title: Management of a giant aortic root aneurysm in a young patient with Marfan syndrome: a case report.

Abstract: INTRODUCTION: Marfan syndrome (MFS) is a common heritable connective tissue disease involving multiple organs. Even though the clinical manifestations of MFS can be various, aortic root aneurysm is estimated as one of the most serious complications. We herein describe an individualized treatment decision-making process for a 23-year-old male with MFS, suffering from a giant but stable aortic root aneurysm which is extremely rare at his age.
CASE: The patient, a 23-year-old male with a family history of MFS, presented to our cardiovascular department because of progressive exertional chest distress, fatigue and occasional precordial pain. Physical examinations revealed 190.5 cm of height, high myopia, and a diastolic murmur at the aortic valve area. Laboratory examinations for systemic vasculitis and infectious diseases were negative. Transthoracic echocardiography and enhanced thoracic computed tomography (CT) scan revealed the existence of a giant aortic root aneurysm (125.1 mm in short-axis), severe aortic valve regurgitation, cardiac dilatation (LV; 99 mm in diastolic diameter) and a poor ejection fraction (EF; 18%). Considering the risk of rupture or dissection of the dilated aortic root, we performed Bentall procedure based on the results of multidisciplinary team discussion and intraoperative exploration. Postoperative thoracic CT scan revealed a normal sized reconstructed aortic root, and the patient was discharged uneventfully 7 days later.
CONCLUSION: It is extremely rare to report such a giant aortic root aneurysm in a young patient. In the treatment decision-making process, the patient's specific situation should be taken into consideration. A mechanical Bentall procedure seems to be an acceptable option for some selected cases.

Citation: Shen J, et al. Management of a giant aortic root aneurysm in a young patient with Marfan syndrome: a case report. Management of a giant aortic root aneurysm in a young patient with Marfan syndrome: a case report. 2020; 15:264. doi: 10.1186/s13019-020-01304-x

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32972445/
