PMID: 32987049
Title: Higher oxidized high-density lipoprotein to apolipoprotein A-I ratio is associated with high-risk coronary plaque characteristics determined by CT angiography.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Oxidized high-density lipoprotein (oxHDL), unlike native HDL, is characterized by reduced cholesterol efflux capability and anti-inflammatory properties. The ratio of oxHDL to apolipoprotein A-I (oxHDL/apoAI) is a possible marker of dysfunctional HDL. The aim of this study was to evaluate the association between oxHDL/apoAI and coronary plaque characteristics that increase the likelihood of cardiovascular events as determined by coronary computed tomography (CT) angiography.
METHODS: A total of 297 patients (mean age; 67 years, men; 63%) who underwent coronary CT angiography for suspected stable coronary artery disease (CAD) were included. High-risk plaques (HRP) were defined by three characteristics: positive remodeling; low-density plaques; and spotty calcification. Significant stenosis was defined as a luminal narrowing of >70%. Serum concentrations of oxHDL were measured using an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay.
RESULTS: Patients with higher oxHDL/ApoAI showed significantly greater prevalence of HRP (p = 0.03) and significant stenosis (p < 0.01) compared with patients with low oxHDL/ ApoAI. The multivariate logistic analysis demonstrated that oxHDL/ApoAI significantly associated with the presence of HRP and significant coronary stenosis (p = 0.01 and < 0.01). In the follow-up study including 243 patients for a median period of 1.8 years, univariate cox regression analysis showed that oxHDL/ApoAI, HRP and significant stenosis were significant predictors of cardiovascular events.
CONCLUSIONS: A high oxHDL/apoAI was associated with the presence of HRP and significant stenosis determined by coronary CT angiography, which can lead to cardiovascular events in patients with suspected stable CAD.

Citation: Suruga K, et al. Higher oxidized high-density lipoprotein to apolipoprotein A-I ratio is associated with high-risk coronary plaque characteristics determined by CT angiography. Higher oxidized high-density lipoprotein to apolipoprotein A-I ratio is associated with high-risk coronary plaque characteristics determined by CT angiography. 2021; 324:193-198. doi: 10.1016/j.ijcard.2020.09.060

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32987049/
