PMID: 32980257
Title: Outcomes of Transfemoral Transcatheter Aortic Valve Replacement Performed With General Anesthesia Using a Supraglottic Airway Versus Monitored Anesthesia Care.

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: Compare general anesthesia with a supraglottic airway versus monitored anesthesia care for transfemoral transcatheter aortic valve replacement (TF-TAVR) in patients with aortic stenosis. The authors hypothesized that the supraglottic airway group would have similar operating room and procedure times, postanesthesia care unit (PACU) and hospital stays, and similar rates of intraprocedural and postprocedural complications compared with the monitored anesthesia care group.
STUDY DESIGN: Retrospective chart review with 1:1 propensity score matching of supraglottic airway to monitored anesthesia care patients.
SETTING: Tertiary care academic medical center.
PARTICIPANTS: TF-TAVR patients between 2017 and 2019.
INTERVENTIONS: Supraglottic airway or monitored anesthesia care.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: One hundred forty-eight supraglottic airway patients were matched with 148 monitored anesthesia care patients. Monitored anesthesia care patients had slightly shorter operating room (p < 0.001) and procedure times (p = 0.015). No difference was observed in hospital length of stay (p = 0.34). Fewer patients in the supraglottic airway group required a PACU stay >2 hours (p < 0.001). Use of intraprocedural vasopressors (p < 0.001) and fentanyl dosage (p < 0.001) was higher in the supraglottic airway group. No differences were observed in postoperative complications or procedural success rates.
CONCLUSIONS: In this, the first study to compare these 2 modalities, supraglottic airway use was demonstrated to be a safe, feasible alternative to monitored anesthesia care during TF-TAVR and did not increase organ-specific morbidity, 30-day mortality, hospital length of stay, or PACU length of stay. Even though supraglottic airway was associated with slight increases in procedure and operating room times, these were not clinically significant.

Citation: Musuku SR, et al. Outcomes of Transfemoral Transcatheter Aortic Valve Replacement Performed With General Anesthesia Using a Supraglottic Airway Versus Monitored Anesthesia Care. Outcomes of Transfemoral Transcatheter Aortic Valve Replacement Performed With General Anesthesia Using a Supraglottic Airway Versus Monitored Anesthesia Care. 2021; 35:1760-1768. doi: 10.1053/j.jvca.2020.09.086

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32980257/
