PMID: 32987857
Title: Integrative Multi-Omics Analysis in Calcific Aortic Valve Disease Reveals a Link to the Formation of Amyloid-Like Deposits.

Abstract: Calcific aortic valve disease (CAVD) is the most prevalent valvular heart disease in the developed world, yet no pharmacological therapy exists. Here, we hypothesize that the integration of multiple omic data represents an approach towards unveiling novel molecular networks in CAVD. Databases were searched for CAVD omic studies. Differentially expressed molecules from calcified and control samples were retrieved, identifying 32 micro RNAs (miRNA), 596 mRNAs and 80 proteins. Over-representation pathway analysis revealed platelet degranulation and complement/coagulation cascade as dysregulated pathways. Multi-omics integration of overlapping proteome/transcriptome molecules, with the miRNAs, identified a CAVD protein-protein interaction network containing seven seed genes (apolipoprotein A1 (APOA1), hemoglobin subunit β (HBB), transferrin (TF), α-2-macroglobulin (A2M), transforming growth factor β-induced protein (TGFBI), serpin family A member 1 (SERPINA1), lipopolysaccharide binding protein (LBP), inter-α-trypsin inhibitor heavy chain 3 (ITIH3) and immunoglobulin κ constant (IGKC)), four input miRNAs (miR-335-5p, miR-3663-3p, miR-21-5p, miR-93-5p) and two connector genes (amyloid beta precursor protein (APP) and transthyretin (TTR)). In a metabolite-gene-disease network, Alzheimer's disease exhibited the highest degree of betweenness. To further strengthen the associations based on the multi-omics approach, we validated the presence of APP and TTR in calcified valves from CAVD patients by immunohistochemistry. Our study suggests a novel molecular CAVD network potentially linked to the formation of amyloid-like structures. Further investigations on the associated mechanisms and therapeutic potential of targeting amyloid-like deposits in CAVD may offer significant health benefits.

Citation: Heuschkel MA, et al. Integrative Multi-Omics Analysis in Calcific Aortic Valve Disease Reveals a Link to the Formation of Amyloid-Like Deposits. Integrative Multi-Omics Analysis in Calcific Aortic Valve Disease Reveals a Link to the Formation of Amyloid-Like Deposits. 2020; 9:(unknown pages). doi: 10.3390/cells9102164

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32987857/
