PMID: 32993717
Title: Improved Transcatheter aortic valve implantation for aortic regurgitation using a new-type stent: the first preclinical experience.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: In this study, we sought to evaluate the feasibility of improved transcatheter aortic valve implantation (TAVI) in noncalcified aortic valve by using the novel concept of double-layer ChenValve prosthesis. TAVI was initially considered as an alternative treatment for high-risk patients with aortic stenosis. However, non noncalcified aortic valve disease was considered as a contraindication to TAVI.
METHODS: ChenValve prosthesis, which consisted of a self-expanding Nitinol ring, a balloon-expandable cobalt-chromium alloy stent and a biological valve, was implanted at the desired position under fluoroscopic guidance in a transapical approach through a 20F sheath in 10 goats. Aortic angiography was performed to measure the diameter of the aotic annulus and assess the performance of the artificial valve. The ultrasound was used to evaluate the regurgitation or paravalvular leakage and trans-prosthetic vascular flow velocity postoperatively. The aortogram and transthoracic echocardiography were applied to observe whether the valve stent was implanted at the desired position.
RESULTS: ChenValve prosthesis was successfully transppical implanted in all animals. The aortogram and transthoracic echocardiography performed immediately after implantation revealed that the valve stent was implanted at the desired position. There was no significant paravalvular leakage, obstruction of coronary artery ostia, stent malpositioning or dislodgement occurred.
CONCLUSIONS: This preliminary trial with the novel double-layer ChenValve prosthesis demonstrated the feasibility of improved TAVI in noncalcified aortic valve. The mechanism of Nitinol ring-guided locating the aortic sinus enables us to anatomically correct position the artifact valve. This improved strategy seems to make the TAVI process more safe and repeatable in noncalcified aortic valve.

Citation: Kan T, et al. Improved Transcatheter aortic valve implantation for aortic regurgitation using a new-type stent: the first preclinical experience. Improved Transcatheter aortic valve implantation for aortic regurgitation using a new-type stent: the first preclinical experience. 2020; 15:276. doi: 10.1186/s13019-020-01327-4

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32993717/
