PMID: 32999091
Title: Quality of Life Outcomes After Transcatheter Aortic Valve Replacement in Nonagenarians.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Transcatheter aortic valve replacement (TAVR) for severe aortic stenosis (AS) is an increasingly prevalent treatment in patients who are intermediate or high risk for surgical intervention. In nonagenarian patients undergoing TAVR, symptomatic relief and quality of life (QoL) outcomes have not been well established. This study explores these outcomes in this patient population that has been underrepresented in landmark clinical trials.
METHODS: All patients who underwent TAVR between January 1, 2015 and December 31, 2018 at Delray Medical Center were included. The 12-item Kansas City Cardiomyopathy Questionnaire Overall Summary (KCCQ-OS) score was used to assess QoL prior to and 30 days following TAVR in two patient groups: the nonagenarian group (patients ≥90 years old) and the younger group (patients <90 years old). KCCQ-OS scores were compared between these two groups. Frailty assessment included grip strength, gait speed, and activities of daily living. Unadjusted and adjusted analyses (baseline KCCQ-OS score, frailty, and Society of Thoracic Surgery perioperative risk of mortality [STS-PROM] score) were performed to assess the impact of age on QoL outcomes in both groups.
RESULTS: Of the total 223 patients included in this study, a total of 46 (20.6%) were nonagenarians and 118 (52.7%) were men. KCCQ-OS scores were lower at baseline and 30-day follow-up in nonagenarians compared with the younger group (P=.70). Age was a significant predictor of 30- day KCCQ-OS in unadjusted and adjusted analyses (adjusted for baseline KCCQ-OS, frailty, and STS-PROM score). Nonagenarians had an average 6.45 points lower 30-day KCCQ-OS scores than the younger patients in adjusted analysis. However, there was a significant clinical improvement in the 30-day KCCQ-OS score in both groups (P<.001).
CONCLUSIONS: Our data suggest that with appropriate patient selection, a significant clinical improvement may be expected with TAVR in nonagenarians.

Citation: Khalili H, et al. Quality of Life Outcomes After Transcatheter Aortic Valve Replacement in Nonagenarians. Quality of Life Outcomes After Transcatheter Aortic Valve Replacement in Nonagenarians. 2020; 32:375-379.

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32999091/
