PMID: 32993880
Title: Traumatic renal artery dissection: from imaging to management.

Abstract: Injury to the renal artery following blunt trauma is detected increasingly due to widespread and early use of multidetector computed tomography (CT), but optimal treatment remains controversial as no guidelines are available. This review illustrates the spectrum of imaging findings of traumatic renal artery dissection based on our experience, with the aim of understanding the physiopathology of ischaemic damage to the kidney, and the process of choosing the best therapeutic strategy (conservative, endovascular, surgical). Five main patterns of traumatic renal artery dissection are described: avulsion of renal hilum; dissection of the segmental renal branches; preocclusive main renal artery dissection; renal artery stenosis without flow limitation; thrombogenic renal artery intimal tear. In the polytrauma patient, management depends on various factors (haemodynamic status, associated lesions, time of diagnosis) rather than on the degree of renal artery stenosis. Non-operative management (NOM) is the preferred option in case of non-flow-limiting dissection of the renal artery and angio-embolisation is an important adjunct to NOM in cases of active bleeding. Embolisation of the renal artery stump may be the best option in cases of occlusive dissection, as catheter manipulation carries a high risk of vessel rupture. The therapeutic window for kidney revascularisation in cases of flow-limiting dissection of main renal artery may be variable. Endovascular stenting >4 h after trauma should be performed only if residual flow with preserved parenchymal perfusion is detected at angiography. Antiplatelet therapy administration is recommended in cases of stenting, but conditioned by the bleeding risk of the patient.

Citation: Rozzanigo U, et al. Traumatic renal artery dissection: from imaging to management. Traumatic renal artery dissection: from imaging to management. 2021; 76:153.e17-153.e24. doi: 10.1016/j.crad.2020.08.029

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32993880/
