PMID: 32993268
Title: [The early results of pulmonary autograft mitral valve replacement (Ross Ⅱ) in infants].

Abstract: Objective: To evaluate the early results of pulmonary autograft mitral valve replacement (Ross Ⅱ procedure) in infants with intractable congenital mitral valve lesions. Methods: Between August 2018 and September 2019, 6 infants underwent mitral valve replacement with a pulmonary autograft in Department of Cardiovascular Surgery, Guangzhou Women and Children's Medical Center. There were 2 males and 4 females.The age at surgery ranged from 50 days to 1 year old.Preoperative diagnoses included severe to critic mitral valve insuffiency in all patients, moderate mitral valve stenosis in 3 patients, and mitral valve prolapse in one. When the pulmonary autograft was harvested, a cuff of bovine or autologous pericardium was sewn onto the proximal (infundibular) end of the autograft ( "top-hat" configuration). The distal (pulmonary) end of the autograft was secured to the mitral annulus.At the level of the left atrial free wall, the pericardial cuff was progressively tailored and sewn onto the atrial wall to remain away from the ostia of the pulmonary veins and to maintain normal morphology of the autograft. The bovine jugular valved conduit was used to reconstruct the right ventricular outflow tract. Results: There was one early death due to sudden cardiac arrest at the night of surgery day. The remaining 5 patients were successfully recovered and discharged. Follow-up of survivors ranged from 3 to 13 months. Echocardiographic follow-up demonstrated the flow velocity across the mitral valve position was 1.5 to 2.3 m/s, with a means gradient of 4 to 6 mmHg (1 mmHg=0.133 kPa). Four patients showed mild mitral insuffiency, normal left atrium and ventricle size and left ventricle ejection fraction.One patient had moderate mitral insuffiency, pulmonary valve endocarditis, and reduced left ventricle ejection fraction. The clinical symptoms of all survivals improved significantly and the weight gain were satisfactory. Conclusion: Pulmonary autograft mitral valve replacement may be a feasible and effective remedial surgical strategy for young infants with intractable congenital mitral valve lesions.

Citation: Zou MH, et al. [The early results of pulmonary autograft mitral valve replacement (Ross Ⅱ) in infants]. [The early results of pulmonary autograft mitral valve replacement (Ross Ⅱ) in infants]. 2020; 58:793-797. doi: 10.3760/cma.j.cn112139-20191007-00492

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32993268/
