PMID: 33000105
Title: Cost-Effectiveness of Transcatheter Aortic Valve Implantation in Intermediate and Low Risk Severe Aortic Stenosis Patients in Singapore.

Abstract: INTRODUCTION: Singapore has the world's second most efficient healthcare system while costing less than 5% GDP. It remains unclear whether transcatheter aortic valve implantation (TAVI) is cost-effective for treating intermediate-low risk severe aortic stenosis (AS) patients in a highly efficient healthcare system.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: A two-phase economic model combining decision tree and Markov model was developed to assess the costs, effectiveness, and the incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) of transfemoral (TF) TAVI versus surgical aortic valve replacement (SAVR) in intermediate-low risk patients over an 8-year time horizon. Mortality and complications rates were based on PARTNER 2 trial cohort A and Singapore life table. Costs were mainly retrieved from Singapore National University Health System database. Health utility data were obtained from Singapore population based on the EuroQol-5D (EQ-5D). A variety of sensitivity analyses were conducted.
RESULTS: In base case scenario, the incremental effectiveness of TF-TAVI versus SAVR was 0.19 QALYs. The ICER of TF-TAVI was S$33,833/QALY. When time horizon was reduced to 5 years, the ICER was S$60,825/QALY; when event rates from the propensity analysis was used, the ICER was S$21,732/QALY and S$44,598/QALY over 8-year and 5-year time horizons, respectively. At a willingness to pay threshold of S$73,167/QALY, TF-TAVI had a 98.19% probability of being cost-effective after 100,000 simulations. The model was the most sensitive to the costs of TF-TAVI procedure.
CONCLUSION: TF-TAVI is a highly cost-effective option compared to SAVR for intermediate-low risk severe AS patients from a Singapore healthcare system perspective. Increased procedure experience, reduction in device cost, and technology advance may have further increased the cost-effectiveness of TF-TAVI per scenario analysis.

Citation: Kuntjoro I, et al. Cost-Effectiveness of Transcatheter Aortic Valve Implantation in Intermediate and Low Risk Severe Aortic Stenosis Patients in Singapore. Cost-Effectiveness of Transcatheter Aortic Valve Implantation in Intermediate and Low Risk Severe Aortic Stenosis Patients in Singapore. 2020; 49:423-433.

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/33000105/
