PMID: 33003998
Title: Acute progressive stroke with middle cerebral artery occlusion caused by idiopathic hypereosinophilic syndrome: a case report.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Idiopathic hypereosinophilic syndrome (IHES) is associated with various organ system dysfunctions. Neurologic abnormalities have been previously noted in this syndrome. Cerebral infarction secondary to occlusion of large cerebral artery is rarely reported. Here we described a patient with IHES presented progressive multiple cerebral infarctions caused by bilateral middle cerebral artery occlusion.
CASE PRESENTATION: A 55-year-old Chinese woman presented to our hospital with acute onset of right limbs weakness and slurred speech. Laboratory tests showed a significant eosinophilia of 5.29 × 109/L (normal, &lt; 0.5), 49.9% of leukocytes. Brain magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) revealed multiple acute cerebral ischemic lesions. Magnetic resonance angiography (MRA) demonstrated stenosis in horizontal segment of right middle cerebral artery. A pretibial skin biopsy revealed eosinophilic infiltration around the capillaries in deep dermis and adipose tissue. The patient was given oral dual anti platelet agents and intravenous methylprednisolone. However, one week later, the patient presented significant neurological deterioration with right-sided hemiparesis and totally motor aphasia. Brain MRI and computed tomography perfusion (CTP) demonstrated new acute cerebral ischemia in left hemisphere. Digital subtraction angiography (DSA) revealed left middle cerebral artery completely occluded. The patient received a high-dose of intravenous methylprednisolone 500 mg per day and the eosinophil count quickly fell to normal within 2 days. She was transferred to a rehabilitation center and her neurological symptoms improved with modified Ranking Scale from 4 to 2.
CONCLUSIONS: IHES is one of the rare causes of acute ischemic stroke with large cerebral artery occlusion. An early high-dose of corticosteroids therapy should be considered in cases of IHES patients. Our case study is benefit to clinical diagnosis and treatment of cerebral infarction with IHES.

Citation: Li QF, et al. Acute progressive stroke with middle cerebral artery occlusion caused by idiopathic hypereosinophilic syndrome: a case report. Acute progressive stroke with middle cerebral artery occlusion caused by idiopathic hypereosinophilic syndrome: a case report. 2020; 20:361. doi: 10.1186/s12883-020-01941-8

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/33003998/
