PMID: 33008719
Title: First-in-Human Study with Eight Patients Using an Absorbable Vena Cava Filter for the Prevention of Pulmonary Embolism.

Abstract: PURPOSE: To prospectively evaluate the initial human experience with an absorbable vena cava filter designed for transient protection from pulmonary embolism (PE).
MATERIALS AND METHODS: This was a prospective, single-arm, first-in-human study of 8 patients with elevated risk of venous thromboembolism (VTE). Seven absorbable IVC filters (made of polydioxanone that breaks down into H<sub>2</sub>O and CO<sub>2</sub> in 6 mo) were placed prophylactically before orthopedic (n = 5) and gynecologic (n = 2) surgeries, and 1 was placed in a case of deep vein thrombosis. Subjects underwent CT cavography and abdominal radiography before and 5, 11, and 36 weeks after filter placement to assess filter migration, embolization, perforation, and caval thrombosis and/or stenosis. Potential PE was assessed immediately before and 5 weeks after filter placement by pulmonary CT angiography.
RESULTS: No symptomatic PE was reported throughout the study or detected at the planned 5-week follow-up. No filter migration was detected based on the fixed location of the radiopaque markers (attached to the stent section of the filter) relative to the vertebral bodies. No filter embolization or caval perforation was detected, and no caval stenosis was observed. Throughout the study, no filter-related adverse events were reported.
CONCLUSIONS: Implantation of an absorbable vena cava filter in a limited number of human subjects resulted in 100% clinical success. One planned deployment was aborted as a result of stenotic pelvic veins, resulting in 89% technical success. No PE or filter-related adverse events were observed.

Citation: Elizondo G, et al. First-in-Human Study with Eight Patients Using an Absorbable Vena Cava Filter for the Prevention of Pulmonary Embolism. First-in-Human Study with Eight Patients Using an Absorbable Vena Cava Filter for the Prevention of Pulmonary Embolism. 2020; 31:1817-1824. doi: 10.1016/j.jvir.2020.07.021

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/33008719/
