PMID: 33015048
Title: The Role of Wnt/β-Catenin Pathway Mediators in Aortic Valve Stenosis.

Abstract: Aortic valve stenosis (AVS) is a prevailing and life-threatening cardiovascular disease in adults over 75 years of age. However, the molecular mechanisms governing the pathogenesis of AVS are yet to be fully unraveled. With accumulating evidence that Wnt signaling plays a key role in the development of AVS, the involvement of Wnt molecules has become an integral study target in AVS pathogenesis. Thus, we hypothesized that the Wnt/β-catenin pathway mediators, SFRP2, DVL2, GSK3β and β-catenin are dysregulated in patients with AVS. Using immunohistochemistry, Real-Time qPCR and Western blotting, we investigated the presence of SFRP2, GSK-3β, DVL2, and β-catenin in normal and stenotic human aortic valves. Markedly higher mRNA and protein expression of GSK-3β, DVL2, β-catenin and SFRP2 were found in stenotic aortic valves. This was further corroborated by observation of their abundant immunostaining, which displayed strong immunoreactivity in diseased aortic valves. Proteomic analyses of selective GSK3b inhibition in calcifying human aortic valve interstitial cells (HAVICs) revealed enrichment of proteins involved organophosphate metabolism, while reducing the activation of pathogenic biomolecular processes. Lastly, use of the potent calcification inhibitor, Fetuin A, in calcifying HAVICs significantly reduced the expression of Wnt signaling genes Wnt3a, Wnt5a, Wnt5b, and Wnt11. The current findings of altered expression of canonical Wnt signaling in AVS suggest a possible role for regulatory Wnts in AVS. Hence, future studies focused on targeting these molecules are warranted to underline their role in the pathogenesis of the disease.

Citation: Khan K, et al. The Role of Wnt/β-Catenin Pathway Mediators in Aortic Valve Stenosis. The Role of Wnt/β-Catenin Pathway Mediators in Aortic Valve Stenosis. 2020; 8:862. doi: 10.3389/fcell.2020.00862

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/33015048/
