PMID: 33017664
Title: The role of bioresorbable intraluminal airway stents in pediatric tracheobronchial obstruction: A systematic review.

Abstract: INTRODUCTION: Tracheal stenosis and tracheobronchomalacia are complicated, patient-specific diseases that can be treated with intraluminal stenting. Most commonly, silicone and metal stents are utilized, however, they pose significant early and late morbidity and are further complicated by growth of the airway in the pediatric population. Given recent improvements in materials science, there is a growing body of evidence suggesting a strong role for bioresorbable intraluminal stents in treating pediatric tracheobronchial obstruction.
METHODS: A PubMed.gov literature search was performed on December 3, 2019 and May 15, 2020, and a 2-researcher systematic review was performed following the PRISMA criteria. The following search query was utilized: (((((((bioresorbable) OR bioabsorbable) OR resorbable) OR absorbable) OR biodegradable AND airway) OR trachea) AND stent. A pooled statistical analysis was performed on all reported pediatric patients using SPSS software.
RESULTS: 1369 publications were screened and 26 articles with original data were identified. Materials used included polydioxanone (PDO), poly-l-lactic acid (PLLA), polyglycolic acid/poly-l-lactide co-polymer with Proglactin 910 (Vicryl®-PDS®), polycaprolactone (PCL), magnesium alloys, and co-polymers in varying proportions. Twelve articles presented data on human subjects, 8 of which were case series and case reports on pediatric populations using polydioxanone (PDO) stents. Pooled statistical analysis demonstrated an average age of 19 months (range 0.25-144), 56.5% associated with a cardiovascular anomaly, and overall complication rate of 21.7%, with a stent fragment foreign body being the most common (8.7%), followed by significant granulation tissue (4.3%), stent migration (4.3%), and local stenosis (4.3%). Comparative analysis demonstrated short-term improvement (up to 1 month) has a statistically significant association with tracheobronchomalacia versus tracheal stenosis on chi-squared test (p = 0.001). The remaining analyses did not yield statistical significance.
CONCLUSION: The reported application of bioresorbable materials as intraluminal airway stents is positive. All comparative animal studies report biocompatibility and fewer morbidities compared to metal and silicone stents, however, in human studies there are concerns over the short interval of degradation and the potential for obstructive foreign bodies in poorly seated stents. Overall, there are clear, reproducible advantages to bioresorbable intraluminal stents in pediatric airway obstruction, as well as common pitfalls, that warrant further research.

Citation: Stramiello JA, et al. The role of bioresorbable intraluminal airway stents in pediatric tracheobronchial obstruction: A systematic review. The role of bioresorbable intraluminal airway stents in pediatric tracheobronchial obstruction: A systematic review. 2020; 139:110405. doi: 10.1016/j.ijporl.2020.110405

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/33017664/
