PMID: 33019295
Title: Assessment of Interhemispheric Cerebral Perfusion Deficit in Carotid Artery Stenosis.

Abstract: Asymptomatic carotid stenosis patients manifest compromised cognitive performance compared to controls. Cerebral perfusion deficit could be an important contributor to cognitive impairment. The relationship between carotid stenosis and cerebral perfusion deficit is not established. If established, this could lead to a more informed selection of ACS patients likely to benefit from carotid revascularization. Perfusion-weighted MR imaging (PWI) is a clinically viable non-invasive technique to quantify cerebral perfusion. However, its impact is limited due to lack of efficient clinical tools to analyze PWI data in different brain regions for characterizing interhemispheric perfusion asymmetry. Development of automated approaches to characterize clinically relevant perfusion deficits is therefore required. Moreover, there is no established evidence of association between perfusion deficit and stenosis severity. In this paper, we propose an approach to quantify interhemispheric perfusion differences in different brain regions using clinical data. Our proposed metrics, based on the PWI mean transit time, for characterizing difference between ipsilateral and contralateral hemispheres demonstrate a very strong relationship with Doppler ultrasound based peak systolic velocity measured at stenosis. Our approach also highlights dependence of perfusion asymmetry on effective collateralization through the cerebral vasculature. In future studies, we plan to extend this method to a larger cohort and refine the methods for validating novel biomarker for risk-stratification of carotid stenosis.

Citation: Khan AA, et al. Assessment of Interhemispheric Cerebral Perfusion Deficit in Carotid Artery Stenosis. Assessment of Interhemispheric Cerebral Perfusion Deficit in Carotid Artery Stenosis. 2020; 2020:5810-5813. doi: 10.1109/EMBC44109.2020.9175883

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/33019295/
