PMID: 33021842
Title: Is it possible to prevent cerebral embolization by improving the design and technology of carotid stent implantation?

Abstract: INTRODUCTION: The prevention of atherosclerotic plaque fragmentation during carotid artery stenting is a fundamental problem in decreasing the risk of disability of patients. The goal of this review is to clarify whether the stent design can have a decisive impact on the rate of intraoperative and postoperative complications.
AREAS COVERED: Different designs of the carotid stents are briefed and the advantages and disadvantages of different stent designs are discussed as well as the results of their clinical use. Various solutions are presented to reduce cerebral embolism during carotid artery stenting.
EXPERT OPINION: There is no conclusive evidence for the benefits of closed cell and hybrid stents. The stent design cannot completely resolve the problem of cerebral embolism. Most of the events of cerebral microembolism occur at the stages of stent delivery rather than protrusion of an atherosclerotic plaque in the long-term follow-up. Most likely, minimization of the risks for periprocedural and postprocedural strokes requires not only the new solutions in stent design as well as the corresponding delivery systems and brain embolic protection systems, but also the new strategies of preprocedural drug stabilization of the atherosclerotic plaque in the carotid artery. Abbreviations: CAS, carotid artery stenting; CE, carotid endarterectomy; DW-MRI, diffusion-weighted magnetic resonance imaging; ECA, external carotid artery; ICA, internal carotid artery; IVUS, intravascular ultrasound examination; OCT, optical coherence tomography.

Citation: Osipova O, et al. Is it possible to prevent cerebral embolization by improving the design and technology of carotid stent implantation?. Is it possible to prevent cerebral embolization by improving the design and technology of carotid stent implantation?. 2020; 18:891-904. doi: 10.1080/14779072.2020.1833718

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/33021842/
