PMID: 33024904
Title: Significant difference between sirolimus and paclitaxel nanoparticles in anti-proliferation effect in normoxia and hypoxia: The basis of better selection of atherosclerosis treatment.

Abstract: Compared with paclitaxel, sirolimus has been more used in the treatment of vascular restenosis gradually as an anti-proliferative drug, but few basic studies have elucidated its mechanism. The anti-proliferative effects of sirolimus or paclitaxel have been demonstrated by numerous studies under normoxia, but few studies have been achieved focusing hypoxia. In this study, porcine carotid artery injury model and classical cobalt chloride hypoxia cell model were established. Sirolimus nanoparticles (SRM-NPs), paclitaxel nanoparticles (PTX-NPs) and blank nanoparticles (Blank-NPs) were prepared respectively. The effect of RPM-NPs on the degree of stenosis, proliferative index and the expression of PCNA after 28 days of porcine carotid artery injury model was evaluated. Compared with saline group and SRM groups, SRM-NPs group suppressed vascular stenosis, proliferative index and the expression of PCNA (P &lt; 0.01 and P &lt; 0.05). Endothelial cell (EC) and smooth muscle cell (SMC) were pre-treated with cobaltous chloride, followed by SRM-NPs, PTX-NPs, Blank-NPs or PBS control treating, the effects on cell proliferation, HIF-1 expression and glycolysis were detected. SRM-NPs could inhibit EC and SMC proliferation under hypoxia, while PTX-NPs couldn't (P &lt; 0.001). Significant differences between sirolimus and paclitaxel NPs in anti-proliferation effect under normoxia and hypoxia may due to the different inhibitory effects on HIF-1α expression and glycolysis. In conclusion, these results suggest that sirolimus can inhibit the proliferation of hypoxic cells more effectively than paclitaxel. These observations may provide a basis for understanding clinical vascular stenosis therapeutic differences between rapamycin and paclitaxel.

Citation: Chen Y, et al. Significant difference between sirolimus and paclitaxel nanoparticles in anti-proliferation effect in normoxia and hypoxia: The basis of better selection of atherosclerosis treatment. Significant difference between sirolimus and paclitaxel nanoparticles in anti-proliferation effect in normoxia and hypoxia: The basis of better selection of atherosclerosis treatment. 2021; 6:880-889. doi: 10.1016/j.bioactmat.2020.09.005

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/33024904/
