PMID: 33028234
Title: Assessment of high sensitivity C-reactive protein and coronary plaque characteristics by computed tomography in patients with and without diabetes mellitus.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: To evaluate the coronary plaque characteristics of coronary arteries using computed tomography angiography (CTA) in order to assess the risk of coronary artery disease and the relevance of high sensitivity C reactive protein (hs-CRP) in patients with Diabetes Mellitus (DM).
METHODS: The clinical data of 400 DM patients and 400 non-DM patients from January 2017 to December 2019 were collected, including the results of coronaryCTA. The plasma hs-CRP level of the two groups were divided into three groups: CRP ≤ 1, 1 < CRP ≤ 2, CRP > 2. The correlation of the degree of stenosis, the number of plaques, the nature of plaques and hs-CRP value between the two groups was evaluated.
RESULTS: Compared with non-DM patients, the incidence of coronary artery plaques and lumen stenosis in DM patients was more higher than that in non-DM patients. DM patients were more likely to have more diseased vessels, especially diffuse vascular disease (12.00% vs 1.75%; P < 0.001). Subjects with high hs-CRP levels were more likely to have any plaque compared with individuals showing normal hs-CRP levels (p<0.01). There was no statistical significance in non calcified plaque with high level of hs-CRP, but the occurrence of plaque types in DM group was statistically significant compared with other hs-CRP levels in non DM group. Subjects with high hs-CRP were observed to be at increased risk for the presence of calcified plaque and severe narrowing in the unadjusted values.
CONCLUSIONS: Coronary CTA combined with hs-CRP can accurately detect the characteristics of coronary artery stenosis and plaque in DM patients, which has an important clinical value in the risk assessment of coronary heart disease in DM patients.

Citation: Zhou HT, et al. Assessment of high sensitivity C-reactive protein and coronary plaque characteristics by computed tomography in patients with and without diabetes mellitus. Assessment of high sensitivity C-reactive protein and coronary plaque characteristics by computed tomography in patients with and without diabetes mellitus. 2020; 20:435. doi: 10.1186/s12872-020-01704-w

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/33028234/
