PMID: 33035203
Title: A Case of Takotsubo Cardiomyopathy with a Rare Transition Pattern of Left Ventricular Wall Motion Abnormality.

Abstract: BACKGROUND Takotsubo cardiomyopathy is characterized by apical ballooning and excessive constriction of the base of heart. However, reverse takotsubo cardiomyopathy, wherein ballooning from the mid-ventricle to the base of the heart occurs with excessive constriction of the apex, has also been reported. We report a case of a transition from atypical wall motion abnormality to a typical takotsubo cardiomyopathy pattern. CASE REPORT A 54-year-old woman was following excessive sugar and dietary restrictions because of concerns regarding her blood sugar levels while receiving treatment for diabetes at another hospital. She presented at our hospital with general malaise and chest discomfort after several days of significantly increased workload. On admission, blood tests showed elevated cardiac enzymes. Electrocardiogram showed ST elevation of V2-V3 and poor R-wave enhancement of the anterior precordial lead. Coronary angiography showed no significant stenosis; however, left ventricular (LV) angiography showed a decrease in mid-ventricular wall motion. On the basis of these findings, she was diagnosed with a reverse takotsubo cardiomyopathy. We initiated conservative treatment for her condition. During her treatment, the LV wall motion showed a typical pattern of the apical ballooning that is characteristic of takotsubo cardiomyopathy. This LV wall motion was normalized on day 22 of the onset. CONCLUSIONS We observed a rare case of takotsubo cardiomyopathy where the pattern of LV wall motion abnormality changed over time. This case suggests that it is necessary to follow up LV abnormality over time rather than rely on single-point observations in cases with takotsubo cardiomyopathy.

Citation: Yasutomi M, et al. A Case of Takotsubo Cardiomyopathy with a Rare Transition Pattern of Left Ventricular Wall Motion Abnormality. A Case of Takotsubo Cardiomyopathy with a Rare Transition Pattern of Left Ventricular Wall Motion Abnormality. 2020; 21:e926670. doi: 10.12659/AJCR.926670

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/33035203/
