PMID: 33036484
Title: N-Butylidenephthalide Inhibits the Phenotypic Switch of VSMCs through Activation of AMPK and Prevents Stenosis in an Arteriovenous Fistula Rat Model.

Abstract: The phenotypic switch of vascular smooth muscle cells (VSMCs) plays a pivotal role in the development of vascular disorders, such as atherosclerosis, stenosis and restenosis, after vascular intervention. In our previous study, n-butylidenephthalide (BP) was reported to have anti-proliferating and apoptotic effects on VSMCs. The purpose of the current study is to further investigate its role in platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF)-induced VSMC phenotypic modulation in an arteriovenous fistula model. In vitro, we observed that BP inhibited the PDGF-induced cytoskeleton reorganization of the VSMCs. The enhanced expression of vimentin and collagen, as well as the migration ability induced by PDGF, were also inhibited by BP. By cell cycle analysis, we found that BP inhibited the PDGF-induced VSMCs proliferation and arrested the VSMCs in the G0/G1 phase. In an arteriovenous fistula rat model, the formation of stenosis, which was coupled with a thrombus, and the expression of vimentin and collagen in VSMCs, were also inhibited by administration of BP, indicating that BP inhibited the PDGF-induced phenotypic switch and the migration of VSMCs. Besides, the inhibitory effects of BP on the phenotypic switch were found to accompany the activated 5' AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK) as well as the inhibited phosphorylation of mTOR. Knockdown of AMPK by gene silencing conflicted the effects of BP and further exacerbated the PDGF-induced VSMCs phenotypic switch, confirming the modulating effect that BP exerted on the VSMCs by this pathway. These findings suggest that BP may contribute to the vasculoprotective potential in vasculature.

Citation: Yang HH, et al. N-Butylidenephthalide Inhibits the Phenotypic Switch of VSMCs through Activation of AMPK and Prevents Stenosis in an Arteriovenous Fistula Rat Model. N-Butylidenephthalide Inhibits the Phenotypic Switch of VSMCs through Activation of AMPK and Prevents Stenosis in an Arteriovenous Fistula Rat Model. 2020; 21:(unknown pages). doi: 10.3390/ijms21197403

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/33036484/
