PMID: 33031820
Title: The importance of circulating levels of salusin-α, salusin-β, and heregulin-β1 in atherosclerotic coronary arterial disease.

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: The relationship between the severity of atherosclerotic coronary artery disease (CAD) and circulating levels of salusin-α, salusin-β and heregulin-β1 has been investigated. In addition, the relationship with these peptides and high sensitive C-reactive protein (hsCRP) has been investigated.
METHODS: The study was conducted on 55 volunteers who had normal coronary angiography (CAG) as the control group, 35 volunteers with the degree of coronary artery stenosis below 50% in CA as the non-critical stenosis group, 37 volunteers with narrowing of one coronary artery above 50% as single vessel group and 41 volunteers with narrowing of more than one coronary artery above 50% as multi-vessel group. One hundred and thirteen volunteers have been included to CAD group.
RESULTS: There was no statistically significant difference in serum salusin-α levels between groups. Serum salusin-β ve hsCRP levels were significantly lower in control group compared to other groups and CAD group. There was no statistically significant difference in salusin-β and salusin-α levels in reciprocal comparison of other groups other than heregulin-β1 levels. Heregulin-β1 levels were significantly lower in 'non-critical occlusion' and 'multiple artery occlusion' groups compared to control group. Heregulin-β1 levels in 'single artery occlusion' group were significantly higher than control, 'non-critical occlusion' and 'multiple artery occlusion' groups.
CONCLUSION: Salusin-α levels does not indicate any significant differences between any groups in our study however the relationship of salusin-α with salusin- β and heregulin-β1 levels drives to cogitate that these peptides can be used as biomarkers and therapeutic approaches in CAD. We think that these peptides will be used in laboratories routinely in future in addition to hsCRP for CAD.

Citation: Arkan A, et al. The importance of circulating levels of salusin-α, salusin-β, and heregulin-β1 in atherosclerotic coronary arterial disease. The importance of circulating levels of salusin-α, salusin-β, and heregulin-β1 in atherosclerotic coronary arterial disease. 2021; 87:19-25. doi: 10.1016/j.clinbiochem.2020.10.003

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/33031820/
