PMID: 33031563
Title: Patient-specific in vitro testing for evaluating TAVR clinical performance-A complementary approach to current ISO standard testing.

Abstract: Following in vitro tests established for surgical prosthetic heart valves, transcatheter aortic valves (TAV) are similarly tested in idealized geometries-excluding effects that may hamper TAVR performance in situ. Testing in vitro in pulse duplicator systems that incorporated patient-specific replicas would enhance the testing veracity by bringing it closer to the clinical scenario. To that end we compare TAV hemodynamic performance tested in idealized geometries according to the ISO standard (baseline performance) to that obtained by testing the TAVs following deployment in patient-specific replicas. Balloon-expandable (n = 2) and self-expandable (n = 3) TAVs were tested in an idealized geometry in mock-circulation system (following ISO 5840-3 guidelines) and compared to the measurements in a dedicated mock-circulation system adapted for the five patient-specific replicas. Patient-specific deployments resulted in a decline in performance as compared to the baseline idealized testing, as well as a variation in performance that depended on the design features of each device that was further correlated with the radial expansion and eccentricity of the deployed TAV stent (obtained with CT-scans of the deployed valves). By excluding the deployment effects in irregular geometries, the current idealized ISO testing is limited to characterize the baseline device performance. Utilizing patient-specific anatomic contours provides performance indicators under more stringent conditions likely encountered in vivo. It has the potential to enhance testing and development complementary to the ISO standard, for improved TAV safety and effectiveness.

Citation: Kovarovic BJ, et al. Patient-specific in vitro testing for evaluating TAVR clinical performance-A complementary approach to current ISO standard testing. Patient-specific in vitro testing for evaluating TAVR clinical performance-A complementary approach to current ISO standard testing. 2021; 45:E41-E52. doi: 10.1111/aor.13841

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/33031563/
