PMID: 33045450
Title: Emergent Carotid Artery Stenting Following Intravenous Alteplase Infusion After Rapid Negative Diagnosis for COVID-19 by Loop-Mediated Isothermal Amplification Assay.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: During the coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic, a rapid screening method for COVID-19 detection is needed to decide the appropriate strategy to treat stroke patients. In acute ischemic stroke treatment, the efficacy and safety of emergent carotid artery stenting (eCAS) for hyperacute ischemic stroke (hAIS) due to internal carotid artery stenosis (ICS) have not been sufficiently established.
CASE DESCRIPTION: A 71-year-old man with hAIS caused by severe ICS was treated via intravenous alteplase infusion. The patient underwent screening for COVID-19 by the loop-mediated isothermal amplification (LAMP) assay shortly after arrival at our institution. The LAMP result was obtained within 90 minutes, during intravenous alteplase infusion, and turned out to be negative. The symptom of hemiplegia worsened during alteplase infusion, and he, therefore, underwent eCAS after administration of aspirin (200 mg). Recanalization was achieved successfully by eCAS, and dual antiplatelet therapy and argatroban were administrated following eCAS. Hemorrhagic complications or restenosis/occlusion of the carotid artery were not observed. He was discharged without neurologic deficits 15 days following eCAS. Because of the rapid negative diagnosis for COVID-19 using the LAMP method, eCAS could be performed following standard procedures, along with infectious defense, without delay.
CONCLUSIONS: This case report suggests that eCAS for hAIS due to ICS following intravenous alteplase can be an effective treatment, along with appropriate antiplatelet medication and management in select patients. During the COVID-19 pandemic, the LAMP assay for COVID-19 detection might be a suitable diagnostic strategy preceding stroke treatment because of the rapid turnaround time.

Citation: Michiwaki Y, et al. Emergent Carotid Artery Stenting Following Intravenous Alteplase Infusion After Rapid Negative Diagnosis for COVID-19 by Loop-Mediated Isothermal Amplification Assay. Emergent Carotid Artery Stenting Following Intravenous Alteplase Infusion After Rapid Negative Diagnosis for COVID-19 by Loop-Mediated Isothermal Amplification Assay. 2021; 145:356-359. doi: 10.1016/j.wneu.2020.09.166

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/33045450/
