PMID: 33043522
Title: Short fully covered self-expandable metal stent for treatment of proximal anastomotic benign biliary stricture after living-donor liver transplantation.

Abstract: OBJECTIVES: Non-surgical methods have high success rates for treating benign biliary strictures (BBSs), but treatment of proximal strictures is difficult. Recent studies have reported that fully covered self-expandable metal stents (FCSEMSs) are useful for treating refractory BBSs. We investigated the efficacy of a short and removable FCSEMS with an anti-migration design for treatment of proximal BBSs.
METHODS: Fully covered self-expandable metal stents were inserted endoscopically in patients with BBSs after living donor liver transplantation (LDLT). Each FCSEMS was initially maintained for 3 months and subsequently exchanged every 3 months until the stricture resolved. Adverse events and stricture recurrence after FCSEMS removal were assessed during follow-up.
RESULTS: A total of 63 patients with a median age of 57 years were enrolled in this study; 50 were male. The most common underlying disease was hepatocellular carcinoma and the previous operation was LDLT. The mean duration from surgery to diagnosis of stricture was 8.5 months, and the mean stent indwelling time was 4.2 months. The technical success and stricture resolution rate were 100%. The recurrence rate was 23.8% and the adverse event rate was 12.7%. All stents were removable, and asymptomatic stent migration was observed in four patients (6.4%).
CONCLUSIONS: The newly designed FCSEMS is effective in the treatment of proximal BBSs after LDLT.

Citation: Jang SI, et al. Short fully covered self-expandable metal stent for treatment of proximal anastomotic benign biliary stricture after living-donor liver transplantation. Short fully covered self-expandable metal stent for treatment of proximal anastomotic benign biliary stricture after living-donor liver transplantation. 2021; 33:840-848. doi: 10.1111/den.13871

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/33043522/
