PMID: 33040506
Title: [Clinical value of upper airway MSCT measurement in adult male patients with moderate to severe OSA].

Abstract: Objective:To investigate the pathogenesis of OSA-related through 128-slice spiral CT measurements of adult male patients with moderate to severe OSA at different respiratory phases, and to optimize treatment options for patients with OSA. Method:128-slice spiral CT was used to scan the upper airway in 52 adult male patients with moderate to severe OSA and 20 normal controls under two different breathing states: calm breathing and Müller maneuver. The plane diameter and length of each area of the upper airway were measured. Area size, soft palate length, thickness, airway volume, airway length, total thickness of the pharyngeal wall, and calculate the compliance of the pharyngeal cavity, including the compliance of the pharyngeal wall, the compliance of the anterior and posterior pharyngeal wall, and the total pharyngeal compliance. Comparison of measurement results and correlation analysis with related parameters.Result: In the OSA group, the length and area of the smallest plane of each airway area（except the posterior epiglottic area） during calm breathing are greater than Müller's movement, and the difference was statistically significant（P&lt;0.05）. The soft palate length and thickness of the OSA group during calm breathing were significantly larger than those of the normal group, and the difference was statistically significant（P&lt;0.01）, In the OSA group, the total thickness of the soft palate region and the posterior lingual area of the pharyngeal wall in the Müller group was significantly greater than the calm breathing state, and the difference was statistically significant（P&lt;0.01）. The volume of the nasopharynx, posterior epiglottic area and airway length in the OSA group during calm breathing were significantly larger than those in the normal group, and the difference was statistically significant（P&lt;0.01）. The compliance of the pharyngeal cavity in the OSA group was greater than that in the normal group, and the difference was statistically significant（P&lt;0.05）. In the OSA group, the volume of the posterior soft palate, posterior tongue, and total airway volume during Müller movement were significantly smaller than those of calm breathing, and the differences were statistically significant（P&lt;0.01）. In the OSA group, the compliance of the pharyngeal wall in the posterior region of the soft palate was greater than the compliance of the anterior and posterior wall of the pharynx, while the compliance of the posterior region of the pharynx in the posterior region of the pharynx was greater than the compliance of the pharynx. There was a significant positive correlation between BMI and AHI in OSA patients（P&lt;0.05）, which was statistically significant. Conclusion:Through MSCT measurement of the upper airways of adult male patients with moderate to severe OSA, the morphological structure and compliance of the upper airways can be observed intuitively, and the degree and location of upper airway stenosis can be accurately assessed, and the measurement indicators and related parameters can be combined. The correlation can optimize the clinical treatment options for adult male patients with OSA.

Citation: Guo C, et al. [Clinical value of upper airway MSCT measurement in adult male patients with moderate to severe OSA]. [Clinical value of upper airway MSCT measurement in adult male patients with moderate to severe OSA]. 2020; 34:814-819. doi: 10.13201/j.issn.2096-7993.2020.09.011

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/33040506/
