PMID: 33041094
Title: Insulin-like growth factor 1 promotes the extension of Tracheal Epithelium in an in Vitro Tracheal organ culture model.

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: Rapid epithelialization is crucial to maintain tracheal patency and prevent potential graft failure in tracheal reconstruction after tracheal resection for cancer with tracheal infiltration or tracheal stenosis. Insulin-like growth factor 1 is a liver-secreted endocrine molecule that controls cell proliferation, differentiation, and apoptosis and has been reported to promote epithelialization in several organs. Here, we utilized mouse tracheal organ cultures to examine the effect of insulin-like growth factor 1 on tracheal epithelialization.
METHODS: The trachea was resected from thirteen-week-old female ICR mice, and cut into small plate-shaped tracheal sections. First, the expression of insulin-like growth factor 1 receptor was assessed by immunohistochemistry. Secondly, the tracheal sections were cultured for seven days in the culture medium, and the morphological change during the seven-day culture was assessed by immunohistochemistry, hematoxylin and eosin staining, and scanning electron microscopy. Moreover, the tracheal sections were cultured for 48 h with different concentration of insulin-like growth factor 1 (0, 0.1, 1 and 10 µg/mL) in the culture medium, and the extension length of the tracheal epithelium during culture was measured in order to assess the effect of topical IGF1 on tracheal epithelialization.
RESULTS: Immunohistochemistry showed that insulin-like growth factor 1 receptor was expressed in tracheal epithelium. Immunohistochemistry, hematoxylin and eosin staining, and scanning electron microscopy showed that the tracheal organ cultures were stable for at least seven days without apparent morphological damage. The effect of insulin-like growth factor 1 on tracheal epithelialization was examined in plate-shaped tracheal sections cultured in medium supplemented with or without insulin-like growth factor 1 for 48 h. We also found that the epithelial edge of plate-shaped tracheal sections extended further along the surface of the tracheal section in culture medium containing insulin-like growth factor 1 compared with that in culture medium without insulin-like growth factor 1.
CONCLUSION: The current study using an in vitro mouse tracheal organ culture model demonstrated that topical insulin-like growth factor 1 treatment promoted the extension of tracheal epithelium, suggesting the potential utility of insulin-like growth factor 1 in aiding rapid tracheal epithelialization in patients requiring tracheal reconstruction using tissue-engineered tracheas.

Citation: Kishimoto I, et al. Insulin-like growth factor 1 promotes the extension of Tracheal Epithelium in an in Vitro Tracheal organ culture model. Insulin-like growth factor 1 promotes the extension of Tracheal Epithelium in an in Vitro Tracheal organ culture model. 2021; 48:441-450. doi: 10.1016/j.anl.2020.09.017

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/33041094/
