PMID: 33053487
Title: Bicuspid reconstruction surgery in a patient suffering from aortic valve infective endocarditis with annular abscess using Ozaki's procedure: A case report.

Abstract: INTRODUCTION: Aortic valve infective endocarditis with annular abscess is associated with high mortality rate and surgery is usually the choice of treatment. Plasty or reconstruction of aortic valve is being performed more widely.
PRESENTATION OF CASE: We report a case study of a 56-year-old male who was diagnosed with congenital bicuspid aortic valve, severe aortic stenosis and regurgitation, and annular abscess. This patient underwent operation in december 2019 and Ozaki's procedure was used to measure the distance between two commissures to reconstruct new leaflets and close the abscess using autologous pericardium. A bicuspid valve was reconstructed based on the anatomical feature of the patient. 6 months after surgery, aortic valve function was good with no residual insufficiency, maximum gradient was 8 mmHg.
DISCUSSION: Reconstruction of aortic valve by Ozaki's procedure has been reported with many advantages for the patient. In case of infectious endocarditis, this technique helps avoid the use of artificial materials. Bicuspid aortic valve reconstruction surgery following the novel methods of reconstructing three leaflets or maintaining the bicuspid morphology could both be performed with good results.
CONCLUSION: Reconstruction of aortic valve by Ozaki's procedure in infectious endocarditis has good results. In case of true bicuspid aortic valve, reconstruction bi-leaflets can be performed.

Citation: Ngo HT, et al. Bicuspid reconstruction surgery in a patient suffering from aortic valve infective endocarditis with annular abscess using Ozaki's procedure: A case report. Bicuspid reconstruction surgery in a patient suffering from aortic valve infective endocarditis with annular abscess using Ozaki's procedure: A case report. 2020; 76:266-269. doi: 10.1016/j.ijscr.2020.09.197

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/33053487/
