PMID: 33051762
Title: Use of right colon vaginoplasty in gender affirming surgery: proposed advantages, review of technique, and outcomes.

Abstract: INTRODUCTION: Various methods have been described to create a functional neovagina with feminizing (male-to-female) gender affirming surgery. Intestinal vaginoplasty using ileal or colon segments confers natural mucus production and greater canal depth with primary vaginoplasty. In this work we describe an alternative approach to primary and salvage vaginoplasty using right colon. We focus on relative advantages compared to use of other bowel segments, and we review patient outcomes.
METHODS: Transgender women who had previously undergone primary vaginoplasty underwent laparoscopic right colon vaginoplasty at our center between 12/2017 and 7/2019. Demographic, medical, outcome, and satisfaction data was collected and retrospectively reviewed.
RESULTS: Twenty-two consecutive transgender women patients underwent laparoscopic right colon vaginoplasty. Mean age was 39.3 years. There were two intraoperative complications:1 injury of the ileocolic pedicle, and 1 minor bladder injury. Four of 22 patients (18.2%) had short-term complications (< 30 days): 3 had postoperative ileus/small bowel obstruction and 1 had intra-abdominal hemorrhage. All were managed conservatively. Six of 22 patients (27.3%) experienced a total of 14 long-term complications (> 30 days): 1 developed Crohn's (not involving the neovagina); 1 developed late small bowel obstruction (SBO) (managed conservatively); 5 developed neovagina prolapse; 4 developed stenosis (2 at the vaginal introitus, and 2 had extrinsic obstruction at the recto-vaginal junction (all underwent successful laparoscopic surgical correction); and 3 were diagnosed with diversion neovaginitis (all treated conservatively). All complications were successfully treated with conservative and/or surgical intervention. All (100%) patients reported satisfaction with neovagina function and appearance.
CONCLUSION: This is the only outcomes series of transgender women patients who have undergone right colon vaginoplasty, to date. Our study finding suggests that laparoscopic right colon for primary or salvage vaginoplasty has several important advantages over use of Sigmoid colon or Ileum, and is a reliable technique whose complications can be managed successfully, with favorable, satisfactory long-term outcomes.

Citation: Garcia MM, et al. Use of right colon vaginoplasty in gender affirming surgery: proposed advantages, review of technique, and outcomes. Use of right colon vaginoplasty in gender affirming surgery: proposed advantages, review of technique, and outcomes. 2021; 35:5643-5654. doi: 10.1007/s00464-020-08078-2

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/33051762/
