PMID: 33051806
Title: Comparison of the Efficacy and Safety of Endoscopic Incisional Therapy and Balloon Dilatation for Esophageal Anastomotic Stricture.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Benign esophageal anastomotic strictures have typically been treated using endoscopic methods, often with balloon dilatation (BD). However, recurrent esophageal strictures after BD have been reported. We evaluated the efficacy and safety of endoscopic incisional therapy (EIT) and BD for treating an anastomotic stricture after a total gastrectomy.
METHODS: Subjects who underwent EIT or BD as a first treatment for esophagojejunostomy anastomotic stricture after a total gastrectomy between January 2010 and December 2018 were eligible. The medical records of these cases were retrospectively reviewed. Stricture was defined as an inability to pass a normal diameter endoscope (10.2 mm). The stricture area was incised under direct vision with the nano-insulated-tip knife in a radial fashion parallel to the longitudinal axis of the esophagus.
RESULTS: Twenty-one patients in our database presented with benign anastomotic stricture after a total gastrectomy for advanced gastric cancer. The BD group included 12 patients. The remaining nine patients underwent EIT, and three of these cases received an immediate additional BD. The re-stricture rate was significantly different between the BD and EIT groups (41.7% vs. 0%, respectively; P = 0.045). There were no significant differences in procedure time, interval from surgery to first stricture, hospitalization period, or complication rates between the groups. One patient developed a microperforation during BD and was treated without surgical intervention.
CONCLUSIONS: EIT is a safe and effective primary treatment modality compared with BD for esophagojejunostomy anastomotic stricture after a total gastrectomy as it shows a significantly lower re-stricture rate.

Citation: Pih GY, et al. Comparison of the Efficacy and Safety of Endoscopic Incisional Therapy and Balloon Dilatation for Esophageal Anastomotic Stricture. Comparison of the Efficacy and Safety of Endoscopic Incisional Therapy and Balloon Dilatation for Esophageal Anastomotic Stricture. 2021; 25:1690-1695. doi: 10.1007/s11605-020-04811-3

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/33051806/
