PMID: 33068653
Title: Chinese medicine GeGen-DanShen extract protects from myocardial ischemic injury through promoting angiogenesis via up-regulation of VEGF/VEGFR2 signaling pathway.

Abstract: HEADINGS ETHNOPHARMACOLOGICAL RELEVANCE: Coronary heart disease (CHD) usually refers to myocardial ischemia or myocardial necrosis caused by coronary artery stenosis. GeGen and DanShen (GD) are popular Chinese herbs for the treatment of angina pectoris and myocardial infarction (MI). This sentence needs to be a separate paragraph.
AIM OF THE STUDY: This study was to investigate the role of GD extract in promoting ischemic myocardial angiogenesis, and to explore its signaling mechanism, so as to provide a more reliable scientific basis for the clinical treatment of ischemic cardiovascular disease.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: GD extract was initially analyzed by HPLC-Q-TOF MS. In vitro, migration assay and tube formation assay were subsequently used to detect the angiogenesis activity of GD extract in human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVECs). Following the in vitro study, an MI rat model was established by ligating the left anterior descending coronary artery (LAD), immediately followed by a 4-week daily GD extract treatment by intragastric administration. After the animal sacrifice, hematoxylin-eosin (HE) staining was conducted to observe the pathological changes of the infarct margin. Besides, the MI area was measured by 2,3,5-triphenyltetrazoliumchloride (TTC) staining. The microvascular density (MVD) was also quantified through CD31 immunohistochemistry. Moreover, the levels of VEGF, TXB2 and 6-keto-PGF1α in serum were detected by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. The expression of VEGFR2 and ERK were detected by immunohistochemistry as well.
RESULTS: In vitro study, GD extract was found to induce significant angiogenesis in HUVECs. In vivo, smaller infarct size was found in treatment groups than that of the model group, and the protein expression of VEGFR2 as well as ERK in the marginal zone of MI in treatment groups were significantly increased. The morphological changes of myocardium were observed with a significant growth in the number of new blood vessels. Regarding the effect of GD extract, the serum levels of CK, LDH and TXB2 were consequently reduced, whereas the levels of VEGF, 6-keto-PGF1α were significantly increased.
CONCLUSIONS: Based on the findings of this study, GD extract had a protective effect against MI in rats. The possible mechanism is to promote angiogenesis by regulating the VEGF/VEGFR2 signaling pathway after MI occurrence.

Citation: Zhai S, et al. Chinese medicine GeGen-DanShen extract protects from myocardial ischemic injury through promoting angiogenesis via up-regulation of VEGF/VEGFR2 signaling pathway. Chinese medicine GeGen-DanShen extract protects from myocardial ischemic injury through promoting angiogenesis via up-regulation of VEGF/VEGFR2 signaling pathway. 2021; 267:113475. doi: 10.1016/j.jep.2020.113475

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/33068653/
