PMID: 33067075
Title: Effect of Regional Upper Septal Hypertrophy on Echocardiographic Assessment of Left Ventricular Mass and Remodeling in Aortic Stenosis.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Transthoracic echocardiography (TTE) is the reference method for evaluation of aortic stenosis (AS), and it is extensively used to quantitate left ventricular (LV) mass and volumes. Regional upper septal hypertrophy (USH) or septal bulge is a frequent finding in patients with AS and may lead to overestimation of LV mass when using linear measurements. The objective of this study was to compare estimates of LV mass obtained by two-dimensional transthoracic echocardiographic LV dimensions measured at different levels of the LV cavity with those obtained by cardiovascular magnetic resonance (CMR).
METHODS: One hundred six patients (mean age, 63 ± 15 years; 68% men) with AS were included in this subanalysis of the PROGRESSA study. Two-dimensional transthoracic echocardiographic measurements of LV dimensions were obtained at the basal level (BL; as recommended in guidelines), immediately below the septal bulge (BSB), and at a midventricular level (ML). Regional USH was defined as a basal interventricular septal thickness ≥ 13 mm and >1.3 times the thickness of the septal wall at the ML. Agreement between transthoracic echocardiographic and CMR measures was evaluated using Bland-Altman analysis.
RESULTS: The distribution of AS severity was mild in 23%, moderate in 57%, and severe in 20% of patients. Regional USH was present in 28 patients (26%). In the whole cohort, two-dimensional TTE overestimated LV mass (bias: BL, +60 ± 31 g; BSB, +59 ± 32 g; ML, +54 ± 32 g; P = .02). The biplane Simpson method slightly but significantly underestimated LV end-diastolic volume (bias -10 ± 20 mL, P < .001) compared with CMR. Overestimation of LV mass was more marked in patients with USH when measuring at the BL and was significantly lower when measuring LV dimensions at the ML (P < .025 vs BL and BSB).
CONCLUSIONS: Two-dimensional TTE systematically overestimated LV mass and underestimated LV volumes compared with CMR. However, the bias between TTE and CMR was less important when measuring at the ML. Measurements at the BL as suggested in guidelines should be avoided, and measurements at the ML should be preferred in patients with AS, especially in those with USH.

Citation: Guzzetti E, et al. Effect of Regional Upper Septal Hypertrophy on Echocardiographic Assessment of Left Ventricular Mass and Remodeling in Aortic Stenosis. Effect of Regional Upper Septal Hypertrophy on Echocardiographic Assessment of Left Ventricular Mass and Remodeling in Aortic Stenosis. 2021; 34:62-71. doi: 10.1016/j.echo.2020.08.022

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/33067075/
