PMID: 33063749
Title: [Prospects of clinical application of cilostazol for peripheral artery disease].

Abstract: This article presents a review of the literature on studying Cilostazol, a type 3 phosphodiesterase inhibitor, also providing the Russian and foreign statistics on the prevalence of peripheral artery disease. It is underlined that the majority of patients with peripheral artery disease have atherosclerotic lesions in the coronary and cerebral vascular basins. Cilostazol deservedly occupies the first lines in the sections of pharmacotherapy for intermittent claudication in international and Russian consensus documents on peripheral artery disease. The drug has an extensive evidence base for the following pharmacological effects: vasodilating, antiplatelet, endothelial protective, and vasculogenic. Clinical efficacy of Cilostazol was confirmed in 15 randomized clinical trials (3 718 patients with intermittent claudication) studying the use of Cilostazol taken twice daily at doses of 50 mg, 100 mg, and 150 mg as compared with placebo or versus pentoxifylline given in a dose of 400 mg three times daily, with a demonstrable increase in the pain-free walking distance and the maximal walking distance on the background of taking Cilostazol. The drug significantly improves the outcomes of endovascular interventions on arteries of lower extremities, decreasing the incidence of restenosis, prolonging limb survival, and reducing the frequency of major amputations. Many studies addressing the use of Cilostazol in patients with coronary and cerebral atherosclerosis have investigated the effect of the drug as a component of dual antiplatelet therapy (aspirin + Cilostazol) and triple antiplatelet therapy (aspirin + clopidogrel + Cilostazol) after endovascular interventions. The addition of Cilostazol to treatment resulted in a significant decrease in the occurrence of re-stenosis, with no increase in the incidence of haemorrhage. Cilostazol may be recommended for patients with multifocal atherosclerosis and resistance to aspirin and clopidogrel. Also presented in the article are the results of a Russian clinical trial studying comparative efficacy of Cilostazol and pentoxifylline in patients with intermittent claudication.

Citation: Burleva EP and Korelin SV. [Prospects of clinical application of cilostazol for peripheral artery disease]. [Prospects of clinical application of cilostazol for peripheral artery disease]. 2020; 26:28-36. doi: 10.33529/ANGIQ2020304

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/33063749/
