PMID: 33062563
Title: An Elite Triathlete with High-grade Isthmic Spondylolisthesis Treated by Lumbar Decompression Surgery without Fusion.

Abstract: The patient was a 48-year-old female recreational triathlete who had been experiencing mild low back pain since high school. She had recently developed right leg pain and had gradually worsening difficulty in running. She preferred to undergo spinal surgery without fusion so that she could return to triathlons as soon as possible, and she was referred to our hospital. Plain radiographs showed Meyerding grade 3 isthmic spondylolisthesis at L5 and a slipped L5 vertebral body. Selective nerve root block at L5 relieved the right leg pain temporarily. The final diagnosis was right L5 radiculopathy due to compression by the ragged edge of the L5 pars defect from the posterior side and by the upside-down foraminal stenosis at L5-S1. An L4-L5 partial laminectomy was performed with resection of the ragged edge and one-third of the caudal pedicle at L5. Adequate decompression was achieved by exposing the L5 spinal nerve root from the branch portion to the outside of the L5 pedicle. The right leg pain disappeared postoperatively and she returned to participating in triathlons. One year after surgery, there was slight radiographic progression of the slip in 5 mm; however, there had been no recurrence of the right leg pain. Several studies have reported excellent outcomes after decompression surgery in patients with isthmic spondylolisthesis. To our knowledge, this is the first report of successful lumbar decompression surgery without fusion for high-grade isthmic spondylolisthesis in a triathlete, although in short-term results.

Citation: Takeuchi M, et al. An Elite Triathlete with High-grade Isthmic Spondylolisthesis Treated by Lumbar Decompression Surgery without Fusion. An Elite Triathlete with High-grade Isthmic Spondylolisthesis Treated by Lumbar Decompression Surgery without Fusion. 2020; 7:167-171. doi: 10.2176/nmccrj.cr.2019-0113

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/33062563/
