PMID: 33067743
Title: A Systematic Review Comparing Emergency Resection and Staged Treatment for Curable Obstructing Right-Sided Colon Cancer.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Treatment for obstructing colon cancer (OCC) is controversial because the outcome of acute resection is less favorable than for patients without obstruction. Few studies have investigated curable right-sided OCC, and patients with OCC usually undergo acute resection. This study aimed to better understand the outcome and best management of potentially curable right-sided OCC.
METHODS: A systematic review of studies was performed with a focus on differences in mortality and morbidity between emergency resection and staged treatment for patients with potentially curable right-sided OCC. In March 2019, the study searched Embase, Medline, Web of Science, Cochrane, and Google scholar databases according to PRISMA guidelines using search terms related to "colon tumour," "stenosis or obstruction and surgery," and "decompression or stents." All English-language studies reporting emergency or staged treatment for potentially curable right-sided OCC were included in the review. Emergency resection and staged resection were compared for mortality, morbidity, complications, and survival.
RESULTS: Nine studies were found to be eligible and comprised 600 patients treated with curative intent for their right-sided OCC by emergency resection or staged resection. The mean overall complication rate was 42% (range 19-54%) after emergency resection, and 30% (range 7-44%) after staged treatment. The average mortality rate was 7.2% (range 0-14.5%) after emergency resection and 1.2% (range 0-6.3%) after staged treatment. The 5-year disease-free and overall survival rates were comparable for the two treatments.
CONCLUSIONS: The patients who received staged treatment for right-sided OCC had lower mortality rates, fewer complications, and fewer anastomotic leaks and stoma creations than the patients who had emergency resection.

Citation: Boeding JRE, et al. A Systematic Review Comparing Emergency Resection and Staged Treatment for Curable Obstructing Right-Sided Colon Cancer. A Systematic Review Comparing Emergency Resection and Staged Treatment for Curable Obstructing Right-Sided Colon Cancer. 2021; 28:3545-3555. doi: 10.1245/s10434-020-09124-y

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/33067743/
