PMID: 33069623
Title: Longitudinal Evaluation of Perineogenital Pain and Postoperative Complications After One-stage Buccal Mucosal Graft Urethroplasty: A Secondary Analysis of a Randomized Controlled Trial.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Little is known about patient-reported intensity and quality of pain at the receiver site as well as postoperative complications following one-stage buccal mucosal graft urethroplasty (BMGU).
OBJECTIVE: To evaluate perineogenital pain intensity and quality as well as short-term complications after BMGU, and to describe the impact of pain and complications on stricture recurrence.
DESIGN, SETTING, AND PARTICIPANTS: A secondary analysis of a randomized controlled trial including 135 patients, who underwent BMGU from 2014 to 2015, was performed.
INTERVENTION: One-stage BMGU.
OUTCOME MEASUREMENTS AND STATISTICAL ANALYSIS: Patient-reported perineogenital pain was assessed by the Numeric Pain Rating Scale and the Short-form McGill Pain Questionnaire preoperatively and at 1, 5, and 21 d, and 3, 6, and 12 mo postoperatively. Complications were assessed by the Clavien-Dindo classification and the Comprehensive Complication Index. Pain and complications were compared according to stricture recurrence.
RESULTS AND LIMITATIONS: At a mean follow-up of 21±15 mo, 29 patients (21%) had stricture recurrence. Pain intensity as well as sensory and affective pain quality decreased over time, reaching a minimum at 6 mo. Postoperative complications at days 5 (95% of patients) and 21 (27% of patients) were predominantly "minor" (Clavien-Dindo classification grade≤IIIa). Neither patient-reported perineogenital pain nor cumulative morbidity burden was different between patients with and those without stricture recurrence (all p ≥ 0.05).
CONCLUSIONS: Perineogenital pain is frequent after BMGU, but pain intensity and quality decrease over time. The same holds true for postoperative complications, which are frequent but mostly present as minor events. Current findings allow for thorough preoperative patient counseling regarding the expected perineogenital pain intensity and quality over time as well as complications following BMGU.
PATIENT SUMMARY: In this study, we looked at pain intensity and pain quality as well as complications following buccal mucosal graft urethroplasty. We found that pain in the perineogenital region is frequent, but pain intensity and quality decrease over time. Similarly, postoperative complications are frequent, but mainly present as minor events.

Citation: Fuehner C, et al. Longitudinal Evaluation of Perineogenital Pain and Postoperative Complications After One-stage Buccal Mucosal Graft Urethroplasty: A Secondary Analysis of a Randomized Controlled Trial. Longitudinal Evaluation of Perineogenital Pain and Postoperative Complications After One-stage Buccal Mucosal Graft Urethroplasty: A Secondary Analysis of a Randomized Controlled Trial. 2021; 7:1157-1165. doi: 10.1016/j.euf.2020.09.018

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/33069623/
