PMID: 33071927
Title: Case Series: Evidence of Borderzone Ischemia in Critically-Ill COVID-19 Patients Who "Do Not Wake Up".

Abstract: This article describes the clinical course, radiological findings, and outcome of two patients with the novel 2019 coronavirus disease (COVID-19) who remained comatose for a prolonged duration following discontinuation of all sedation. These two male patients, one aged 59-years and another aged 53-years, both with a history of hypertension and neurologically intact on admission, developed worsening COVID-19 associated acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS). Both required benzodiazepine, opioid, neuromuscular blockade, therapeutic anticoagulation, and vasopressor infusions in addition to renal replacement therapy. Echocardiography demonstrated normal chamber size and systolic function in both cases. Each patient demonstrated only trace flexion to pain 7-10 days following discontinuation of all sedation. Magnetic Resonance Imaging on both patients demonstrated multifocal lesions on diffusion weighted imaging with apparent diffusion coefficient correlate in bilateral middle/anterior cerebral artery borderzones, and no large-vessel occlusion or severe stenosis. In both patients, continuous electroencephalography demonstrated no seizures. Neither patient had any documented period of sustained hypotension (mean arterial pressure &lt;60 mmHg) or hypoxia (SpO<sub>2</sub> &lt;90%). Ninety days following initial presentation, the 59-years-old man was oriented, with fluent speech and able to ambulate with assistance, while the other 53-years-old man was at home and independent, undertaking the basic activities required by daily living. We conclude that critically-ill COVID-19 patients with prolonged coma following sedation discontinuation may demonstrate imaging features of ischemic injury in borderzone regions despite the absence of documented sustained hypotension or hypoxia. However, substantial neurological recovery is possible despite these findings.

Citation: Pirau L, et al. Case Series: Evidence of Borderzone Ischemia in Critically-Ill COVID-19 Patients Who "Do Not Wake Up". Case Series: Evidence of Borderzone Ischemia in Critically-Ill COVID-19 Patients Who "Do Not Wake Up". 2020; 11:964. doi: 10.3389/fneur.2020.00964

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/33071927/
