PMID: 33083412
Title: Spontaneous resolution of idiopathic intestinal obstruction after pneumonia: A case report.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Duodenal obstruction is a common clinical scenario that can either be mechanical or a pseudo-obstruction. Clinical management of intestinal obstruction starts from localization and proceeds to histological examination of the stenotic intestine. Systemic factors and dysfunction of distant organs might contribute to the development of intestinal obstruction. Here, we report a unique case of idiopathic mechanical duodenal obstruction, which resolved spontaneously after 3 mo of conservative treatment, but was followed by intestinal pseudo-obstruction.
CASE SUMMARY: An 84-year-old woman presented with worsened postprandial vomiting accompanied by prolonged pneumonia. Thorough noninvasive investigations revealed complete circumferential stenosis in the descending duodenum without known cause. Exploratory surgery was postponed due to septic shock and possible pulmonary fungal infection. Conservative treatment for 3 mo for ileus and control of pulmonary infection resolved the intestinal obstruction completely. Unfortunately, 2 wk later, she had regurgitation and postprandial vomiting again, complicated by deteriorating wheezing and dyspnea. Computed tomography revealed a dilated stomach and proximal duodenum without new intestinal stricture or pulmonary infiltration. The patient fully recovered after combined treatment with antireflux agents, enema, prokinetics, and bronchodilators.
CONCLUSION: This complicated case highlights the inter-relationship of local and systemic contributions to ileus and gut dysfunction, which requires multidisciplinary treatment.

Citation: Zhang BQ, et al. Spontaneous resolution of idiopathic intestinal obstruction after pneumonia: A case report. Spontaneous resolution of idiopathic intestinal obstruction after pneumonia: A case report. 2020; 8:4512-4520. doi: 10.12998/wjcc.v8.i19.4512

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/33083412/
