PMID: 33095532
Title: [Rigid transpedicular fusion surgery in the treatment of degenerative lumbar stenosis].

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: To compare an effectiveness of different methods of rigid transpedicular fixation and decompression in patients with degenerative lumbar stenosis.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: A prospective study included 160 patients with degenerative lumbar spine stenosis. In the first group (n=37), patients underwent laminectomy and transpedicular fixation, in the second group (n=60) - laminectomy, transpedicular fixation and implantation of interbody fusion cage. In the third group (n=30), interlaminar decompression and transpedicular fixation were carried oud, in the fourth group (n=33) - interlaminar decompression, transpedicular fixation and implantation of interbody fusion cage. Surgeries were performed in three clinics in Moscow. Outcomes were assessed using a visual analogue scale (VAS) and Oswestry questionnaire in 1 and 2 years after surgery. Between-group comparison of the outcomes was performed. In patients with unfavorable outcome, we analyzed the cause of unsatisfactory result and risk factors.
RESULTS: Satisfactory result was noted in 103 patients (64%) in 2 years after surgery. Outcomes were comparable in all groups. More significant regression of back pain was noted in group II (laminectomy, transpedicular fixation, interbody cage) compared to other groups. Preoperative risk factors of adverse outcome were resting leg pain VAS score > 4 and age over 71 years. Incidence of pseudoarthrosis and back pain was higher among patients without interbody cage. Incidence of adjacent level lesion was higher among patients with interbody cages.
CONCLUSION: Decompression type and implantation of interbody cage do not significantly change postoperative outcomes in most patients with degenerative lumbar stenosis undergoing transpedicular fixation. However, interbody cage implantation during transpedicular fixation is advisable in patients with severe back pain (VAS score > 5-6).

Citation: Grin AA, et al. [Rigid transpedicular fusion surgery in the treatment of degenerative lumbar stenosis]. [Rigid transpedicular fusion surgery in the treatment of degenerative lumbar stenosis]. 2020; 84:41-49. doi: 10.17116/neiro20208405141

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/33095532/
