PMID: 33093619
Title: Association of gamma-glutamyl transferase with subclinical coronary atherosclerosis and cardiac outcomes in non-alcoholics.

Abstract: In an asymptomatic population, we determined the relationship between serum gamma-glutamyl transferase (GGT) and subclinical atherosclerosis, using coronary computed tomography angiography (CCTA). This was a retrospective observational cohort study which analyzed 5120 consecutive asymptomatic individuals with no prior history of coronary artery disease or significant alcohol intake who voluntarily underwent CCTA as part of a general health examination. All subjects were stratified into tertiles based on GGT levels. Degree and extent of subclinical coronary atherosclerosis were evaluated using CCTA. Cardiac events were a composite of all-cause death, myocardial infarction, unstable angina, and coronary revascularization. After adjustment for cardiovascular risk factors, there were no significant differences among GGT tertiles in terms of adjusted odds ratios for non-calcified and mixed plaques. The risk of any atherosclerotic and calcified plaques, significant stenosis, multi-vessel disease, and significant stenosis in the left main or proximal left anterior descending artery was higher in the third GGT tertile than in the first tertile (all p < 0.05). Over a median 5.4-year follow-up, the third GGT tertile had significant adjusted hazards ratios for cardiac events than did the first GGT tertile, even after stepwise adjustment for cardiovascular risk factors (all p < 0.01). In asymptomatic individuals, elevated GGT was independently associated with high-risk feature atherosclerosis and poorer cardiac outcomes.

Citation: Kim YG, et al. Association of gamma-glutamyl transferase with subclinical coronary atherosclerosis and cardiac outcomes in non-alcoholics. Association of gamma-glutamyl transferase with subclinical coronary atherosclerosis and cardiac outcomes in non-alcoholics. 2020; 10:17994. doi: 10.1038/s41598-020-75078-6

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/33093619/
