PMID: 33094333
Title: Prone Transpsoas Technique for Simultaneous Single-Position Access to the Anterior and Posterior Lumbar Spine.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Effective decompression, arthrodesis, and correction of spinal conditions frequently utilize operative approaches that expose both the anterior and posterior spinal column. Until now, circumferential spinal column access often requires the surgeon to reposition and drape the patient multiple times or utilize a posterior only approach that has limited anterior correction capability or to utilize a lateral-only approach that complicates otherwise traditional posterior surgical maneuvers.
OBJECTIVE: To describe a technique utilizing a single surgical position that enables minimally disruptive anterior column correction with simultaneous access to the posterior spinal column.
METHODS: The operative technique for accessing the lateral lumbar interbody space from a prone transpsoas (PTP) approach is described. The rationale for this approach and a representative case example are reviewed.
RESULTS: The PTP approach was used to perform an L3-4 and L4-5 interbody fusion in a 71-yr-old female with spondylolisthesis, severe stenosis, and locked facets. The PTP approach enabled efficient completion of an anterior column correction, direct posterior decompression, multi-segment pedicle fixation, and maintenance of alignment, all while in a single prone position. There were no intraoperative or postoperative complications.
CONCLUSION: The authors' early experience with the described PTP technique suggests it is not only feasible but offers some advantages, as it allows for single-position surgery maximizing both anterior and posterior column access and corrective techniques. Further follow-up studies of this technique are ongoing.

Citation: Pimenta L, et al. Prone Transpsoas Technique for Simultaneous Single-Position Access to the Anterior and Posterior Lumbar Spine. Prone Transpsoas Technique for Simultaneous Single-Position Access to the Anterior and Posterior Lumbar Spine. 2020; 20:E5-E12. doi: 10.1093/ons/opaa328

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/33094333/
