PMID: 33092546
Title: Advanced hepatic vasculobiliary imaging segmentation and 3D reconstruction as an aid in the surgical management of high biliary stenosis.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Three-dimensional (3D) models are increasingly used to help surgeons, guiding them through the complex hepatic vasculobiliary anatomy. The biliary tract is a relatively untapped territory with only a few case reports described in medical literature. Our aim is to present an innovative 3D reconstruction methodology for biliary imaging and surgical planning, applied to a case of iatrogenic biliary stricture, with fusion of segmented CT and MRI images.
CASE PRESENTATION: A selected case of Bismuth type III iatrogenic biliary stenosis for 3D planning. CT and MR studies were acquired with dedicated protocols for segmentation. Two radiologists performed segmentation and 3D model post-processing, fusing both imaging techniques to faithfully render the anatomical structures. Measurements of anatomical landmarks were taken in both the CT/MRI and the 3D model to assure its accuracy and differences in measurement were calculated. The 3D model replicates anatomical structures and pathology with high accuracy, with only 2.2% variation between STL, CT and MRI measurements. The model was discussed with the surgical team and used in the surgical planning, improving confidence in this delicate procedure, due to the detailed prior knowledge of the patient's anatomy.
CONCLUSION: Three-dimensional reconstructions are a rapidly growing area of research with a significant impact in the personalized and precision medicine. The construction of 3D models that combine vascular and biliary anatomy, using different imaging techniques, respectively CT and MRI, will predictably contribute to a more rigorous planning of complex liver surgeries.

Citation: Pereira da Silva N, et al. Advanced hepatic vasculobiliary imaging segmentation and 3D reconstruction as an aid in the surgical management of high biliary stenosis. Advanced hepatic vasculobiliary imaging segmentation and 3D reconstruction as an aid in the surgical management of high biliary stenosis. 2020; 20:120. doi: 10.1186/s12880-020-00520-0

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/33092546/
