PMID: 33094591
Title: Intralesional steroid injections in addition to endoscopic dilation in benign refractory esophageal strictures : a systematic review.

Abstract: BACKGROUND AND STUDY AIMS: Benign esophageal strictures are primarily treated with dilation therapy, but strictures can recur or can be unresponsive, requiring additional or repeated treatment. This study investigates the efficacy and safety of intralesional steroid injections in addition to dilation in comparison to dilation alone in patients with benign refractory or recurrent esophageal strictures.
METHODS: A systematic search was carried out in PubMed, using the search terms "Esophageal Stenosis"[Mesh] AND "Injections, Intralesional"[Mesh]. In addition, the reference list of all selected articles was searched manually for other relevant articles. All clinical trials and case series were considered.
RESULTS: This systematic review included four randomized controlled trials, six case series and two cohort studies, comprising 341 patients with benign esophageal strictures of different etiologies. A benefit of adding intralesional steroid injections to dilation in reducing the need for repeat dilation was seen in the subgroups of peptic, radiation-induced and corrosive strictures. Results were inconsistent for anastomotic strictures and too limited for strictures due to eosinophilic esophagitis, sclerotherapy or pill esophagitis. Complications were rare and of limited severity.
CONCLUSION: Endoscopic dilation remains the first-line treatment, since its efficacy and safety are mostly satisfactory. In recurrent or refractory strictures, intralesional steroid injections are advised in peptic strictures and can be considered in radiation- induced, corrosive strictures and anastomotic strictures. It is recommended to restrict the steroid use to a maximum of three sessions and to consider alternative treatment if treatment effects remain insufficient.

Citation: Henskens N, et al. Intralesional steroid injections in addition to endoscopic dilation in benign refractory esophageal strictures : a systematic review. Intralesional steroid injections in addition to endoscopic dilation in benign refractory esophageal strictures : a systematic review. 2020; 83:432-440.

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/33094591/
