PMID: 33101981
Title: Cardiac manifestations and effects of enzyme replacement therapy for over 10 years in adults with the attenuated form of mucopolysaccharidosis type I.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Mucopolysaccharidosis type I (MPS I) is a rare autosomal recessive disease caused by a deficiency of the lysosomal enzyme α-L-iduronidase. Cardiac manifestations such as valvular heart disease are associated with poor prognosis. There have been only a few reports on the effect of long-term enzyme replacement therapy (ERT) for adult patients with the attenuated form of MPS I (Scheie syndrome) and cardiac involvement.
METHODS: We retrospectively reviewed four adult patients of Scheie syndrome for which ERT was performed in our hospital. We investigated the findings of electrocardiography and echocardiography for the four patients performed before and 10 years after the initiation of ERT to evaluate the efficacy for ERT in Scheie syndrome.
RESULTS: The ages of the patients at the initiation of ERT ranged from 26 to 46 years. The mean follow-up period was 129 months (121 to 134 months). Two patients underwent valve replacement surgery before the initiation of ERT. One patient had gradual progressive aortic valve stenosis and mitral valve stenosis during the course of ERT, and double valve replacement was finally performed. The patient who had started ERT at the youngest age did not develop significant cardiovascular disease. Regarding clinical courses with ERT for a period of 10 years, all four patients survived and they showed relatively stable cardiac conditions although two patients developed sick sinus syndrome after the valvular surgery.
CONCLUSIONS: Valvular disease in patients with Scheie syndrome occur at a young age. In a limited number of the four patients, ERT might contribute the stability of cardiac condition.

Citation: Sugiura K, et al. Cardiac manifestations and effects of enzyme replacement therapy for over 10 years in adults with the attenuated form of mucopolysaccharidosis type I. Cardiac manifestations and effects of enzyme replacement therapy for over 10 years in adults with the attenuated form of mucopolysaccharidosis type I. 2020; 25:100662. doi: 10.1016/j.ymgmr.2020.100662

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/33101981/
