PMID: 33104291
Title: Interventional therapy via flexible bronchoscopy in the management of foreign body-related occlusive endobronchial granulation tissue formation in children.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Occlusive granulation tissue formation, as one of the most common sequelae of chronic foreign body aspiration, can cause tracheobronchial obstruction and delayed fixed airway stenosis necessitating interventions. The aim of this study was to explore the clinical efficacy and safety of interventional therapy via flexible bronchoscopy for treatment of granulation tissue related airway obstruction secondary to foreign body aspiration in children.
METHOD: Patients with long-term foreign body related granulation tissue were treated with flexible bronchoscopy therapeutic modalities, including forceps, cryotherapy, holmium laser, and balloon dilatation. Clinical efficacy was evaluated by clinical symptoms and endoscopic manifestations.
RESULTS: A total of eight patients with granulation tissue hyperplasia caused by foreign body in bronchus, with a median age of 29.5 (range, 18-54) months, underwent interventional therapy between January 2016 and December 2019. Four patients received forceps and CO<sub>2</sub> cryotherapy and one patient required forceps only. The remaining three patients received holmium laser combined with CO<sub>2</sub> cryotherapy, and one of them required additional balloon dilatation. Four cases required a second cryotherapy procedure, and one case received three cryotherapy procedures for extensive granulation tissue. The treatment efficacy was 100% without complications.
CONCLUSION: Interventional procedure via flexible bronchoscopy is a safe, reliable, and effective method in the management of tracheobronchial obstruction and stenosis caused by foreign body-related granulation tissue hyperplasia. It is worthy of clinical application.

Citation: Li S, et al. Interventional therapy via flexible bronchoscopy in the management of foreign body-related occlusive endobronchial granulation tissue formation in children. Interventional therapy via flexible bronchoscopy in the management of foreign body-related occlusive endobronchial granulation tissue formation in children. 2021; 56:282-290. doi: 10.1002/ppul.25134

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/33104291/
