PMID: 33108646
Title: Long-Term Arterial Remodeling After Bioresorbable Scaffold Implantation 4-Year Follow-up of Quantitative Coronary Angiography, Histology and Optical Coherence Tomography.

Abstract: PURPOSE: Our previous studies have confirmed the safety and efficacy of the novel fully bioresorbable PLLA scaffold (PowerScaffold®) at 12 months implantation. In the present study, the scaffold absorption and coronary vessel remodeling at 4 years were evaluated.
METHODS: After PowerScaffold® were implanted into 13 coronary arteries of 6 miniature pigs, quantitative coronary angiography (QCA) was performed at 15 days and 4 years follow-up to measure the mean lumen diameter (MLD), late lumen loss (LLL), and % stenosis of the coronary arteries. Optical coherence tomography (OCT) was performed to obtain the strut footprints at 4 years before euthanization for histological analysis. In addition, 2 PowerScaffold® were implanted into 2 miniature pigs for 2 years as supplementary data. All stented arteries were dissected and stained with HE, Masson, EVG, and Alcian blue to observe struts, cells, fibrinoid, elastin, and proteoglycans, respectively.
RESULTS: There were no significant differences in MLD, LLL and % stenosis in stented coronary arteries between 15 days and 4 years by QCA. At 4 years, most strut sites were indiscernible and replaced by extracellular matrix and connective tissue by histology. Both strut/vessel wall interaction and strut coverage were shown 100% by OCT.
CONCLUSION: At 4 years, the scaffold struts were completely embedded into vessel wall and mostly replaced by regenerated tissue. There was no sign of in-stent stenosis in all stented arteries.

Citation: Chen D, et al. Long-Term Arterial Remodeling After Bioresorbable Scaffold Implantation 4-Year Follow-up of Quantitative Coronary Angiography, Histology and Optical Coherence Tomography. Long-Term Arterial Remodeling After Bioresorbable Scaffold Implantation 4-Year Follow-up of Quantitative Coronary Angiography, Histology and Optical Coherence Tomography. 2020; 11:636-645. doi: 10.1007/s13239-020-00495-7

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/33108646/
