PMID: 33104258
Title: Prospective study of the effect of sulfotanshinone sodium combined with tirofiban on vascular endothelial function and indicators of plaque stability in elderly patients with acute coronary syndrome.

Abstract: WHAT IS KNOWN AND OBJECTIVE: This study aimed to explore the effect of sulfotanshinone sodium injection combined with tirofiban on vascular endothelial function and indicators of plaque stability in elderly patients with acute coronary syndrome (ACS).
METHODS: We designed a prospective study and enrolled 169 patients with ACS who were admitted to our hospital as subjects. Patients treated with sulfotanshinone sodium injection combined with tirofiban (n = 99) were allocated to the research group (RG), and the remaining patients treated with tirofiban alone were allocated to the control group (n = 70; CG). The two groups were compared in terms of treatment efficacy, adverse reactions, vascular endothelial function, changes in plaque stability indicator levels, prognosis, recurrence rate, and quality of life after the treatment.
RESULTS AND DISCUSSION: Treatment response rate, SOD and ET-1 levels, and quality-of-life score were markedly lower in RG than in CG (all P < .05). The incidence of adverse reactions; levels of CD63p, CD62p and GP IIb/IIIa; changes in plaque stability indicator levels; and recurrence rate were markedly higher in RG than in CG (all P < .05). There was no significant difference in 3-year survival rate between the two groups (P > .05).
WHAT IS NEW AND CONCLUSION: Compared with tirofiban alone, sulfotanshinone sodium injection combined with tirofiban had superior efficacy and safety in the treatment of ACS. It can effectively reduce recurrence rate and improve quality of life in ACS, making it a strong candidate for popular clinical application.

Citation: Lin S, et al. Prospective study of the effect of sulfotanshinone sodium combined with tirofiban on vascular endothelial function and indicators of plaque stability in elderly patients with acute coronary syndrome. Prospective study of the effect of sulfotanshinone sodium combined with tirofiban on vascular endothelial function and indicators of plaque stability in elderly patients with acute coronary syndrome. 2021; 46:319-327. doi: 10.1111/jcpt.13283

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/33104258/
