PMID: 33105056
Title: Increased occurrence of pathological mitochondria in astrocytic perivascular endfoot processes and neurons of idiopathic intracranial hypertension.

Abstract: Idiopathic intracranial hypertension (IIH) primarily affects fertile, overweight women, and presents with the symptoms of raised intracranial pressure. The etiology is unknown but has been thought to relate to cerebrospinal fluid disturbance or cerebral venous stenosis. We have previously found evidence that IIH is also a disease of the brain parenchyma, evidenced by alterations at the neurogliovascular interface, including astrogliosis, pathological changes in the basement membrane and pericytes, and alterations of perivascular aquaporin-4. The aim of this present electron microscopic study was to examine whether mitochondria phenotype was changed in IIH, particularly focusing on perivascular astrocytic endfeet and neurons (soma and pre- and postsynaptic terminals). Cortical brain biopsies of nine reference individuals and eight IIH patients were analyzed for subcellular distribution and phenotypical features of mitochondria using transmission electron microscopy. We found significantly increased prevalence of pathological mitochondria and reduced number of normal mitochondria in astrocytic endfeet of IIH patients. The degree of astrogliosis correlated negatively with the number of normal mitochondria in astrocytic endfoot processes. Moreover, we found significantly increased number of pathological mitochondria in pre- and postsynaptic neuronal terminals, as well as significantly shortened distance between mitochondria and endoplasmic reticulum contacts. Finally, the length of postsynaptic density, a marker of synaptic strength, was on average reduced in IIH. The present data provide evidence of pathological mitochondria in perivascular astrocytes endfeet and neurons of IIH patients, highlighting that impaired metabolism at the neurogliovascular interface may be a facet of IIH.

Citation: Eide PK, et al. Increased occurrence of pathological mitochondria in astrocytic perivascular endfoot processes and neurons of idiopathic intracranial hypertension. Increased occurrence of pathological mitochondria in astrocytic perivascular endfoot processes and neurons of idiopathic intracranial hypertension. 2021; 99:467-480. doi: 10.1002/jnr.24743

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/33105056/
