PMID: 33113019
Title: Successful surgical procedure based on careful preoperative imaging for chronic idiopathic colonic pseudo-obstruction: a case report.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Chronic idiopathic colonic pseudo-obstruction (CICP) is a rare disease, defined as a condition of the chronically damaged colon, without obstruction or stenosis, and a pathological abnormality in the myenteric plexus. To date, there is no effective medication for CICP, and existing medication is not useful, making surgery the only effective treatment. Laparoscopic surgery is useful for reducing surgical trauma and postoperative adhesion. Herein, we report a patient with recurrent laxative-uncontrolled bowel obstruction, who underwent successful treatment with laparoscopic total colectomy based on preoperative detailed evaluation of bowel function.
CASE PRESENTATION: A 77-year-old female patient without any past abdominal or psychological medical history was referred to our hospital because of chronic constipation and abdominal pain. Contrast-enhanced computed tomography, barium enema, cine magnetic resonance imaging, and defecography indicated an enlarged colon from the cecum to the transverse colon (proximal to the splenic flexure) without apparent mechanical obstruction, and a collapsed colon from the descending colon to the rectum, with reduced peristalsis. Bowel movements of the rectum and anorectal function were normal. Based on these findings, we diagnosed CICP and performed laparoscopic total colectomy and ileo-rectal anastomosis in this case. Postoperative recovery was good, without the need for postoperative laxatives. Pathologically, no degeneration of the muscle layers or Auerbach's plexus was found in the resected specimen.
CONCLUSION: Surgery is the only effective treatment for patients with CICP. Careful imaging before surgery is important for detecting the extent of excision required. This will reduce the need for additional surgery due to symptom relapse in the remnant colon. However, continued observation of the patient is required.

Citation: Yoshimura K, et al. Successful surgical procedure based on careful preoperative imaging for chronic idiopathic colonic pseudo-obstruction: a case report. Successful surgical procedure based on careful preoperative imaging for chronic idiopathic colonic pseudo-obstruction: a case report. 2020; 6:275. doi: 10.1186/s40792-020-01048-9

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/33113019/
