PMID: 33120851
Title: The combination of excimer laser ablation and drug eluting balloon for treating superficial femoral arterial occlusion following stent implantation: A case report.

Abstract: RATIONALE: Recent research shows that in-stent restenosis (ISR) occurs in half of the patients treated with stenting of femoral and popliteal artery for lower extremity arteriosclerotic occlusive disease (LEASO). Combined therapy is mainly used clinically to obtain better medium- and long-term treatment outcomes and reduce the occurrences of reintervention, among which, the combination of excimer laser ablation (ELA) and drug eluting balloon (DEB) is a new and effective choice.
PATIENT CONCERNS: A 76-year-old male patient with ISR of right superficial femoral artery after stent implantation was reported.
DIAGNOSIS: Rechecking angiography indicated severe occlusion of the right superficial femoral artery. The physical examination showed that bilateral femoral and popliteal arteries were accessible whereas right dorsalis and posterior tibial arteries are unaccessible. Ankleolus brachial index (ABI) was 0.92 for left and 0.58 for right.
INTERVENTIONS: We performed the operation with ELA and drug balloon DEB on the right superficial femoral artery under local anesthesia and treated with oral antiplatelet drugs after operation.
OUTCOMES: The combination treatment was very successful, and postoperative lower extremity arteriogram showed the blood flow was fluent and fast. No recurrence was discovered 3 months after the operation and he had no obvious symptom of claudication.
LESSONS: The combination of ELA and DEB is useful and effective for ISR of peripheral vessel after stent implantation, and this surgical method is worthwhile but need further clinical research for safety confirmation.

Citation: Wu X, et al. The combination of excimer laser ablation and drug eluting balloon for treating superficial femoral arterial occlusion following stent implantation: A case report. The combination of excimer laser ablation and drug eluting balloon for treating superficial femoral arterial occlusion following stent implantation: A case report. 2020; 99:e22935. doi: 10.1097/MD.0000000000022935

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/33120851/
