PMID: 33126311
Title: Repeated balloon dilatation with long-term biliary drainage for treatment of benign biliary-enteric anastomosis strictures: A STROBE-compliant article.

Abstract: Percutaneous balloon dilatation for benign biliary-enteric anastomosis stricture has been the most widely used alternative to endoscopic treatment. However, patency results from the precedent literature are inconsistent.The objective of this study was to evaluate the safety and feasibility of repeated balloon dilatation with long-term biliary drainage for the treatment of benign biliary-enteric anastomosis strictures.Data from patients with benign biliary-enteric anastomosis strictures who underwent percutaneous transhepatic cholangiography (PTC), repeated balloon dilatation with long-term biliary drainage (repeated-dilatation group; n = 23), or PTC and single balloon dilatation with long-term biliary drainage (single-dilatation group; n = 26) were reviewed. Postoperative complications, jaundice remission, and sustained anastomosis patency were compared between the groups.All procedures were successful. No severe intraoperative complications, such as biliary bleeding and perforation, were observed. The jaundice remission rate in the first week was similar in the 2 groups. During the 26-month follow-up period, 3 patients in the repeated-dilatation group had recurrences (mean time to recurrence: 22.84 ± 0.67 months, range: 18-26 months). In the single-dilatation group, 15 patients had recurrences (mean time to recurrence = 15.28 ± 1.63 months, range: 3-18 months). The duration of patency after dilatation was significantly better in the repeated-dilatation group (P = .01). All patients with recurrence underwent repeat PTC followed by balloon dilatation and biliary drainage.Repeated balloon dilatation and biliary drainage is an effective, minimally invasive, and safe procedure for treating benign biliary-enteric anastomosis strictures, and provides significantly higher patency rates than single dilatation.

Citation: Li TF, et al. Repeated balloon dilatation with long-term biliary drainage for treatment of benign biliary-enteric anastomosis strictures: A STROBE-compliant article. Repeated balloon dilatation with long-term biliary drainage for treatment of benign biliary-enteric anastomosis strictures: A STROBE-compliant article. 2020; 99:e22741. doi: 10.1097/MD.0000000000022741

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/33126311/
