PMID: 33126352
Title: Effect of trimetazidine on incidence of major adverse cardiac events in coronary artery disease patients undergoing percutaneous coronary intervention: A protocol for systematic review and meta-analysis.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) is a common treatment method for coronary artery disease (CAD). PCI can cause myocardial ischemia or injury, and lead to major adverse cardiac events (MACEs). Trimetazidine has significant cardioprotective effects and improves endothelial dysfunction and myocardial injury. We will conduct a comprehensive systematic review and meta-analysis to evaluate effect of trimetazidine on incidence of MACE in CAD patients undergoing PCI.
METHODS: PubMed, Embase, Web of Science, Cochrane Library, the China National Knowledge Infrastructure, Chinese Biomedical Literature Database, and China Science and Technology Journal Database will be searched to collect randomized controlled trials (RCTs) of trimetazidine for CAD patients undergoing PCI. The range of publication time will be from the inception of the database to October 2020 without language limitation. Two reviewers will independently conduct study selection, data extraction and management, and assessment of risk of bias. Any disagreement will be resolved by discussion with the third reviewer. Review Manager Software 5.3 will be used for meta-analysis. The Cochrane risk of bias tool will be used to assess the risk of bias.
RESULTS: This study will provide a systematic synthesis of current published data to summarize the effect of trimetazidine on incidence of MACE such as stent restenosis, stent thrombosis, new significant coronary stenosis, myocardial infarction, heart failure, and cardiac arrest in CAD patients undergoing PCI.
CONCLUSIONS: This meta-analysis will provide evidence as to whether trimetazidine can reduce incidence of MACE in CAD patients undergoing PCI.
STUDY REGISTRATION NUMBER: INPLASY202090083.

Citation: Zhu K, et al. Effect of trimetazidine on incidence of major adverse cardiac events in coronary artery disease patients undergoing percutaneous coronary intervention: A protocol for systematic review and meta-analysis. Effect of trimetazidine on incidence of major adverse cardiac events in coronary artery disease patients undergoing percutaneous coronary intervention: A protocol for systematic review and meta-analysis. 2020; 99:e22918. doi: 10.1097/MD.0000000000022918

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/33126352/
