PMID: 33122188
Title: Percutaneous, Navigated Minimally Invasive Posterior Cervical Pedicle Screw Fixation.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Cervical pedicle screws provide significant biomechanical advantage but can be technically challenging and associated with morbid exposure. Improvements in intraoperative navigation guidance and instrumentation have made feasible this biomechanically robust, but technically challenging procedure. We present our initial experience with minimally invasive (MIS) percutaneous pedicle screw fixation in the cervical atlantoaxial and subaxial spine.
METHODS: A retrospective review was performed on 27 cases that involved a novel MIS percutaneous cervical pedicle screw technique. Small lateral skin incisions were made bilaterally on the neck using intraoperative navigation guidance. Subsequently, navigated, percutaneous screws were placed using the Proficient Minimally Invasive System (PROMIS; Spine Wave, Shelton, CT). Computed tomography (CT)-guided navigation was used for cervical pedicle screw placement with subsequent placement of percutaneous rods.
RESULTS: Indications for surgery included type II odontoid fractures, subaxial fracture dislocations and burst fracture, metastatic pathological burst fracture, and degenerative spondylosis with stenosis. There were 15 men and 12 women, with an average age 63.5 years. Follow-up ranged from 3 to 24 months (average = 16.7 months). One screw was revised intraoperatively. Two patients (7.7%) required reoperation, 1 patient required repositioning of a C5 pedicle screw, and 1 suffered a C7 body fracture. No nerve root injury, spinal cord injury, or vertebral artery injuries were reported.
CONCLUSIONS: Percutaneous cervical pedicle screw fixation is a feasible and safe technique when performed with CT-guided intraoperative navigation techniques. Cervical pedicle screw fixation provides a biomechanically superior construct in comparison with a lateral mass technique. In addition, the lack of paraspinal muscle disruption preserves important stabilizers of the posterior ligamentous complex and may reduce wound-healing issues in high-risk cases (eg, trauma patients). Although the current role for percutaneous instrumentation is relatively narrow, the advancement of MIS posterior cervical techniques may provide expanded opportunities in the future.

Citation: Coric D, et al. Percutaneous, Navigated Minimally Invasive Posterior Cervical Pedicle Screw Fixation. Percutaneous, Navigated Minimally Invasive Posterior Cervical Pedicle Screw Fixation. 2020; 14:S14-S21. doi: 10.14444/7122

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/33122188/
