PMID: 33126379
Title: Full-endoscopic decompression for thoracic ossification of ligamentum flavum: surgical techniques and clinical outcomes: A retrospective clinical study.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Many complications are associated with thoracic open decompression surgery, such as dural tears and neurological deficits. The clinical outcomes are also not satisfactory. Full-endoscopic decompression of the lumbar spinal canal has achieved satisfactory results for the treatment of lumbar spinal stenosis. This surgery may be used for the treatment of thoracic ossification of the ligamentum flavum (OLF) under local anesthesia. The aim of our study is to introduce the surgical techniques used for full-endoscopic decompression for thoracic OLF and to evaluate its safety and efficacy.
METHODS: Fourteen patients with thoracic OLF (4 combined with dural ossification) underwent full-endoscopic decompression surgery. An interlaminar approach was performed. The anchoring method was used to establish the working passage. Spinal cord exposure began at a space between the ossification and the spinal cord, and dorsal and contralateral decompression were performed with the "Over the Top" technique. The modified Japanese Orthopedic Association score (11 points) was used to evaluate the efficacy during follow-up. At the same time, the visual analogue scale score for assessing back pain before and after the operation was evaluated.
RESULTS: The average operation time was 159.73 ± 62.09 minutes, and the hospitalization time was 7.43 ± 1.79 days. The follow-up period ranged from 8 to 22 months. Neurological function was improved. There were no serious complications. Dural tears occurred in 5 patients, intraoperative neurological deterioration occurred in 1 patient, and intraoperative headache and neck pain occurred in 1 patient.
CONCLUSION: Full-endoscopic decompression is an effective, safe surgical technique for thoracic OLF even the cases combined with dural ossification.

Citation: Li W, et al. Full-endoscopic decompression for thoracic ossification of ligamentum flavum: surgical techniques and clinical outcomes: A retrospective clinical study. Full-endoscopic decompression for thoracic ossification of ligamentum flavum: surgical techniques and clinical outcomes: A retrospective clinical study. 2020; 99:e22997. doi: 10.1097/MD.0000000000022997

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/33126379/
