PMID: 33130648
Title: [URGENT SURGICAL OPERATIONS FOR CROHN'S DISEASE IN CHILDREN].

Abstract: Aim - the improvement of treatment results of patients with complicated Crohn's disease based on study and analysis of own results of surgical interventions. Since 2008 to 2020 years 23 patients at the age 1,5-17 years old with Crohn's disease in 3 pediatric surgical hospitals have been observed. The article presents the analysis of surgical treatment of these patients with complications of main pathology. Diagnostics is integrated and includes clinical and laboratorian examination of patients, X-ray, endoscopic, sonography methods of examination and morphological research method of clinical biopsy. Complications of Crohn's disease were presented by intestinal obstructions (34,78% of cases), intestinal perforations (26,09%), acute appendicitis with mesadenitis (13,04%), intraabdominal abscesses (8,7%), intestinal hemorragia from inflammatory wart (4,35%), perianal inflammatory complications with fistulas (13,04%). The article has covered all possible methods of surgical operations depending on the type of complication. The most frequent surgical interventions were resections of intestinal stenosis with formation of intestinal stomas. The majority of patients have achieved good results after surgical interventions. 5 (23,81%) patients have got a relaparotomias because of such postoperative complications as anastomotic failure (1), recurrence of intestinal perforation (2) and recurrence of intestinal obstruction (2). Mortality has not been observed. Conclusions. 1. Because of Crohn's disease is a progressive disease, the opportunity of emergence of acute surgical complications of this pathology preserves. Our data show that urgent surgical complications of Crohn's disease in 47,83% of patients were the first manifestation of the disease, which was diagnosed during treatment and verified morphologically in the postoperative period. 2. In most cases surgical complications were intestinal obstruction (34,78% cases) and intestinal perforations (26,09%), and the most frequent surgical interventions for Crohn's disease in children were resections of the affected areas of the intestine with formation of intestinal stomas. 3. The modern tactic of surgical treatment of complicated of Crohn's disease in children based on local intestinal resections with intestinal stomas. 4. It is very important to use a combined approach combining conservative and surgical treatment. Surgical treatment and drug treatment of Crohn's disease should be complementary treatments.

Citation: Gorbatyuk O, et al. [URGENT SURGICAL OPERATIONS FOR CROHN'S DISEASE IN CHILDREN]. [URGENT SURGICAL OPERATIONS FOR CROHN'S DISEASE IN CHILDREN]. 2020; (unknown volume):61-66.

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/33130648/
