PMID: 33133321
Title: Refractory heart failure and intermittent claudication secondary to supra-renal coral reef aorta.

Abstract: Coral reef aorta (CRA), a rare disease, is characterized by severe calcification of the juxta-renal and suprarenal aorta that grows into the lumen and leads to severe stenosis. A 70-year-old woman with refractory hypertension and lower limb claudication presented with hypertension and congestive heart failure. Treatment with vasodilators and diuresis led to oliguria and exacerbated kidney function, while her congestion remained. Abdominal computerized tomography showed a bulky, irregular localized supra-renal aortic calcification with stenosis. A peripheral artery ultrasound and angiography showed no occlusive lesions in the distal run-off vessels. Based on her medical history and the unique aspects of the localized calcified lesion, CRA was diagnosed. We suspected that the congestive heart failure, refractory hypertension, and renal failure resulted from the supra-renal aortic stenosis. Because she developed oliguria with diuretics and vasodilators, we performed an open graft replacement with a thoracoabdominal approach. The reddish-brown calcified mass came off easily and was very fragile. The postoperative course was uneventful, and her heart and renal failure were completely resolved. This is the first report showing the fragility of CRA. Considering its fragility, catheter treatment may need to be avoided to prevent distal embolism. &lt;Learning objective: When we encounter a calcified lesion localized at the level of the juxta and supra-renal aorta with extensive growth into the lumen, coral reef aorta (CRA) should be suspected. Considering that CRA lesion can be very fragile in contrast to the usual atherosclerotic lesion, as shown in our case, CRA might possibly increase the risk of distal embolization. Therefore, open graft replacement could be safer than endovascular stent-graft placement.&gt;.

Citation: Kojima S, et al. Refractory heart failure and intermittent claudication secondary to supra-renal coral reef aorta. Refractory heart failure and intermittent claudication secondary to supra-renal coral reef aorta. 2020; 22:249-252. doi: 10.1016/j.jccase.2020.07.014

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/33133321/
