PMID: 33133848
Title: Radial Recurrent Artery: Autologous Patch Graft for Acute Brachial Artery Laceration.

Abstract: Brachial artery injury is the most common vascular disruption in upper extremity penetrating trauma, usually treated by primary repair or saphenous vein interposition graft. We report the case of a young male who presented after assault with stab wound to the right antecubital fossa, an asymmetric vascular exam, and unknown depth contaminated wound that warranted operative exploration. We performed open exploration through a triangular flap extension of his oblique linear laceration for both exposure and flexor surface scar contracture prophylaxis. Exploration revealed brachial artery laceration with loss of approximately 30% of vessel circumference proximal to the radial and ulnar artery bifurcation. A near-complete transection of the recurrent radial artery was also present, leading to the decision to sacrifice this vessel for use as an autologous patch graft of the injured brachial artery. Distal vascular flow was re-established, and the vessel was slightly ectatic with no evidence of stenosis. Patient suffered no complications and was discharged at post-operative day four after perioperative heparin drip on anti-platelet therapy. Autologous patch grafting in the acute setting is a less-often considered surgical option that is effective for arterial bifurcation reconstruction, which may be employed through the sacrifice of injured and redundant local branch vessels. Patch grafts are commonly utilized in planned vascular surgery, such as carotid endarterectomy, but this is the first report of autologous patch graft to an acute brachial artery injury. By combining knowledge of the lateral arm flap with the plastic surgery principles of "like replaces like", this technique avoids the stenosis associated with primary repair, the multiple anastomoses necessary for interposition grafting, the need for a secondary donor site, and provides a theoretical blood-flow advantage.

Citation: Keck KJ, et al. Radial Recurrent Artery: Autologous Patch Graft for Acute Brachial Artery Laceration. Radial Recurrent Artery: Autologous Patch Graft for Acute Brachial Artery Laceration. 2020; 12:e10682. doi: 10.7759/cureus.10682

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/33133848/
