PMID: 33130282
Title: Structural valve deterioration and mode of failure of stentless bioprosthetic valves.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Aortic stentless bioprosthetic valve (SLBPV), either porcine or pericardial, minimizes transvalvular gradient and favors regression of left ventricular hypertrophy. The drawback consists of longer time for suturing. While structural valve deterioration (SVD) in stented porcine and pericardial BPVs has been extensively investigated, less information is available on SLBPVs.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: We studied 82 SLBPVs explants, either porcine (Toronto SPV, [St. Jude Medical, MN, USA], CryolifeO'Brien Model 300 and CryoLife-O'Brien [Cryolife International, GA, USA], BioCor PVS [St. Jude Medical, MN, USA] Prima and Prima Plus [Edwards Lifesciences Corp. One Edwards Way, CA, formerly Baxter Inc, CA, USA]) or pericardial ([Pericarbon Freedom and Freedom Solo [Sorin-Biomedica, S.p.A., Saluggia, Italy]).
RESULTS: By excluding cases with leak and endocarditis, we focused the investigation on 46 SLBPVs, which failed because of SVD. Gender was male in 29 (63%). Mean age of patients at time of implant was 59.8 years. Postoperative time of SVD was 115.0 months for porcine and 79.0 months for pericardial SLBPVs. Dysfunction requiring reoperation was mainly incompetence for porcine and stenosis for pericardial SLBPVs. Even pinpoint mineralization at the commissures resulted in sudden cusp tearing and incompetence. Cuspal atheromasia accounted for cusp tearing even in the absence of calcification. Mineralization showed progression with time in pericardial but not in porcine SLBPVs.
CONCLUSIONS: Tissue mineralization remains the nightmare also of SLBPVs, with the peculiar features of pinpoint calcific deposits at commissures, tearing and abrupt incompetence in porcine SLBPVs and of massive cuspal mineralization and stenosis in pericardial SLBPVs.

Citation: Della Barbera M, et al. Structural valve deterioration and mode of failure of stentless bioprosthetic valves. Structural valve deterioration and mode of failure of stentless bioprosthetic valves. 2021; 51:107301. doi: 10.1016/j.carpath.2020.107301

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/33130282/
