PMID: 33130593
Title: Percutaneous Balloon Mitral Valvuloplasty During Antenatal Care and Apgar Score: The ANC-Valve Study.

Abstract: OBJECTIVES: The present study aimed to evaluate maternal and fetal outcomes in patients who underwent percutaneous balloon mitral valvuloplasty (PBMV) during antenatal care.
METHODS: Analysis of 117 pregnant women who underwent PBMV for rheumatic mitral stenosis. Demographic, clinical, echocardiographic, hemodynamic, and Doppler examinations were performed. The pregnant women were stratified according to New York Heart Association classification. Apgar scores were recorded at 1, 5, and 10 minutes to assess the neonatal outcomes.
RESULTS: In our study cohort, 74.36% underwent PBMV during their second trimester, at gestational age of 22.49 ± 5.82. Term birth, mode of delivery, birth weight, and Apgar score at 5 minutes were significantly associated with pregnancy and neonatal outcomes. Mitral valve area, mitral valve gradient, and pulmonary artery systolic pressure were significantly improved (P<.001) after PBMV. Pulmonary edema, medical termination of pregnancy, hypothyroidism, hepatitis B infection, pneumonia, and postprocedural delivery, as well as postprocedure severe mitral regurgitation requiring surgery in 2 patients, were the few complications observed. Mean fluoroscopy time was 4 minutes, 50 seconds, with 100% success rate. No maternal mortality was observed.
CONCLUSION: PBMV is a safe and effective intervention for mitral stenosis in pregnant women, with favorable maternal and short-term neonatal outcomes. PBMV offers excellent results in terms of symptomatic relief, hemodynamic improvement, and 100% success rate. Hence, it could be regarded as a preferred choice of intervention in managing symptomatic moderate to severe rheumatic mitral stenosis in pregnant women.

Citation: Patil VB and Patted S. Percutaneous Balloon Mitral Valvuloplasty During Antenatal Care and Apgar Score: The ANC-Valve Study. Percutaneous Balloon Mitral Valvuloplasty During Antenatal Care and Apgar Score: The ANC-Valve Study. 2020; 32:427-432.

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/33130593/
