PMID: 33130135
Title: Research on the Head and Neck MRA Image to Explore the Comprehensive Effect on the Recovery of Neurological Function and Rehabilitation Nursing of Patients with Acute Stroke.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: This paper uses head and neck magnetic resonance angiography (MRA) images in the diagnosis of acute ischemic stroke (AIS), as well as the neurologic rehabilitation and the effect of rehabilitation treatment in patients with acute stroke.
METHODS: We used computed tomography and head and neck MRA images to calculate the sensitivity and specificity of AIS. We measured the parameters of cerebral blood flow, cerebral blood volume, mean transit time, and peak transit time, and evaluated the degree of cerebral artery stenosis. We also analyzed the changes in these parameters in different diseased brain tissues and their correlation with the degree of cerebral artery stenosis. We used comprehensive rehabilitation care interventions on patients.
RESULTS: Among 294 patients, 253 (86.05%) were finally diagnosed with AIS. The sensitivity and specificity of head and neck MRA images were 85.37% and 92.68%, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: Examination can effectively assess cerebral hemodynamic changes, the severity of ischemia, and accurately distinguish between infarct area and penumbra. MRA images of the head and neck can accurately detect the location and degree of cerebral artery stenosis. The combination of the two methods can not only accurately diagnose AIS, but also evaluate the condition and efficacy of the disease, and provide an imaging basis for the clinical choice of reasonable treatment options. Comprehensive rehabilitation care can significantly improve the neurologic function and quality of life of prospective patients.

Citation: Xiao J, et al. Research on the Head and Neck MRA Image to Explore the Comprehensive Effect on the Recovery of Neurological Function and Rehabilitation Nursing of Patients with Acute Stroke. Research on the Head and Neck MRA Image to Explore the Comprehensive Effect on the Recovery of Neurological Function and Rehabilitation Nursing of Patients with Acute Stroke. 2021; 149:420-427. doi: 10.1016/j.wneu.2020.10.135

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/33130135/
