PMID: 33156520
Title: Evolution of Basic Activities of Daily Living Function in Older Patients One Year After Transcatheter Aortic Valve Implantation.

Abstract: BACKGROUND/OBJECTIVES: To assess the course and prediction of basic activities of daily living (ADL) function in patients after transcatheter aortic valve implantation (TAVI).
DESIGN: This was a prospective cohort study.
SETTING: The setting was a single academic center in Switzerland.
PARTICIPANTS: Participants included individuals aged ≥70 years (n = 330) undergoing TAVI.
MEASUREMENTS: A frailty index (based on geriatric assessment) and cardiac risk scores (EuroSCORE, Society of Thoracic Surgeons [STS] score) were determined in patients before TAVI. Basic ADL function was measured with patient or proxy interviews at baseline and 1-year follow up. We used logistic regression models to investigate the association between baseline factors and functional decline.
RESULTS: At 1-year follow up, 229 (69.4%) of the 330 patients had stable or improved basic ADL function, 49 (14.8%) experienced a decline in basic ADL function, and 52 (15.8%) died. The frailty index, but not cardiac risk scores, significantly predicted decline in basic ADL function. Among the 34 surviving very frail patients, 12 (35.3%) experienced a functional status decline, and the remaining 22 (64.7%) had stable or improved functional status at 1-year follow up.
CONCLUSION: This study confirms that a frailty index, and not cardiac risk scores, identifies patients at an increased risk of functional status decline after TAVI. Identifying patients with a high frailty index before TAVI is clinically relevant as these patients might benefit from targeted geriatric management and rehabilitation after TAVI. However, based on current data, it is not justified to use information on frailty status as the criterion for identifying patients in whom TAVI might be futile. Although the probability of poor outcome is high, very frail patients also have a high probability of favorable long-term functional outcome.

Citation: Bertschi D, et al. Evolution of Basic Activities of Daily Living Function in Older Patients One Year After Transcatheter Aortic Valve Implantation. Evolution of Basic Activities of Daily Living Function in Older Patients One Year After Transcatheter Aortic Valve Implantation. 2021; 69:500-505. doi: 10.1111/jgs.16927

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/33156520/
