PMID: 33157913
Title: The effect of preoperative degenerative spondylolisthesis on postoperative outcomes of degenerative lumbar spinal stenosis: A single-center cohort study protocol.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Most degenerative lumbar spinal stenosis (DLSS) patients primitively received the conservative treatment to control symptoms. In order to develop an optimal surgical treatment strategy, it is very significant to understand how the degenerative lumbar spondylolisthesis (DS) affects the effect of decompression in the DLSS. Thus, the aim of this current study was to explore whether the concomitant DS would affect the effect of decompression alone in the patients with DLSS.
METHODS: The current study was carried out at our hospital and it was approved through our institutional review committee of General Hospital of Ningxia Medical University. During the period from January 2015 to December 2017, in our study, we identified consecutive patients who received the minimally invasive laminectomy to treat the DLSS. The inclusion criterion included radicular leg pain or neurogenic claudication with the neurological symptoms associated with DLSS syndrome, magnetic resonance imaging of the lumbar spine reveals at least 1 level of serious stenosis, the conservative treatment failed for at least 3 months, and patients agreed to provide the postoperative details. The major outcomes of this present research was Oswestry Disability Index. Secondary outcomes of this current study involved visual analog score, short form-36, surgical revision rate as well as complications.
RESULTS: We assumed that previous DS possessed a negative effect on the postoperative results of the DLSS patients.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: researchregistry5943.

Citation: Chang Y, et al. The effect of preoperative degenerative spondylolisthesis on postoperative outcomes of degenerative lumbar spinal stenosis: A single-center cohort study protocol. The effect of preoperative degenerative spondylolisthesis on postoperative outcomes of degenerative lumbar spinal stenosis: A single-center cohort study protocol. 2020; 99:e22355. doi: 10.1097/MD.0000000000022355

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/33157913/
