PMID: 33155517
Title: Clonal Hematopoiesis-Driver DNMT3A Mutations Alter Immune Cells in Heart Failure.

Abstract: RATIONALE: Clonal hematopoiesis driven by mutations of DNMT3A (DNA methyltransferase 3a) is associated with increased incidence of cardiovascular disease and poor prognosis of patients with chronic heart failure (HF) and aortic stenosis. Although experimental studies suggest that DNMT3A clonal hematopoiesis-driver mutations may enhance inflammation, specific signatures of inflammatory cells in humans are missing.
OBJECTIVE: To define subsets of immune cells mediating inflammation in humans using single-cell RNA sequencing.
METHODS AND RESULTS: Transcriptomic profiles of peripheral blood mononuclear cells were analyzed in n=6 patients with HF harboring DNMT3A clonal hematopoiesis-driver mutations and n=4 patients with HF and no DNMT3A mutations by single-cell RNA sequencing. Monocytes of patients with HF carrying DNMT3A mutations demonstrated a significantly increased expression of inflammatory genes compared with monocytes derived from patients with HF without DNMT3A mutations. Among the specific upregulated genes were the prototypic inflammatory IL (interleukin) IL1B (interleukin 1B), IL6, IL8, the inflammasome NLRP3, and the macrophage inflammatory proteins CCL3 and CCL4 as well as resistin, which augments monocyte-endothelial adhesion. Silencing of DNMT3A in monocytes induced a paracrine proinflammatory activation and increased adhesion to endothelial cells. Furthermore, the classical monocyte subset of DNMT3A mutation carriers showed increased expression of T-cell stimulating immunoglobulin superfamily members CD300LB, CD83, SIGLEC12, as well as the CD2 ligand and cell adhesion molecule CD58, all of which may be involved in monocyte-T-cell interactions. DNMT3A mutation carriers were further characterized by increased expression of the T-cell alpha receptor constant chain and changes in T helper cell 1, T helper cell 2, T helper cell 17, CD8+ effector, CD4+ memory, and regulatory T-cell-specific signatures.
CONCLUSIONS: This study demonstrates that circulating monocytes and T cells of patients with HF harboring clonal hematopoiesis-driver mutations in DNMT3A exhibit a highly inflamed transcriptome, which may contribute to the aggravation of chronic HF.

Citation: Abplanalp WT, et al. Clonal Hematopoiesis-Driver DNMT3A Mutations Alter Immune Cells in Heart Failure. Clonal Hematopoiesis-Driver DNMT3A Mutations Alter Immune Cells in Heart Failure. 2021; 128:216-228. doi: 10.1161/CIRCRESAHA.120.317104

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/33155517/
