PMID: 33160946
Title: Rationale and design of a randomized clinical trial comparing safety and efficacy of myval transcatheter heart valve versus contemporary transcatheter heart valves in patients with severe symptomatic aortic valve stenosis: The LANDMARK trial.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: The recent approval of transcatheter aortic valve replacement (TAVR) in patients with low operative risk has paved the way for the introduction of novel and potentially improved technologies. The safety and efficacy of these novel technologies should be investigated in randomized control trials against the contemporary TAVR devices. The objective of the LANDMARK trial is to compare the balloon-expandable Myval transcatheter heart valve (THV) series with contemporary THV (SAPIEN THV and Evolut THV series) series in patients with severe symptomatic native aortic stenosis.
METHODS/DESIGN: The LANDMARK trial (ClinicalTrials.govNCT04275726, EudraCT number 2020-000,137-40) is a prospective, randomized, multinational, multicenter, open-label, and noninferiority trial of approximately 768 patients treated with TAVR via the transfemoral approach. Patients will be allocated in a 1:1 randomization to Myval THV series (n = 384) or to contemporary THV (n = 384) (either of SAPIEN THV or Evolut THV series). The primary combined safety and efficacy endpoint is a composite of all-cause mortality, all stroke (disabling and nondisabling), bleeding (life-threatening or disabling), acute kidney injury (stage 2 or 3), major vascular complications, prosthetic valve regurgitation (moderate or severe), and conduction system disturbances (requiring new permanent pacemaker implantation), according to the Valve Academic Research Consortium-2 criteria at 30-day follow-up. All patients will have follow-up to 10 years following TAVR.
SUMMARY: The LANDMARK trial is the first randomized head-to-head trial comparing Myval THV series to commercially available THVs in patients indicated for TAVR. We review prior data on head-to-head comparisons of TAVR devices and describe the rationale and design of the LANDMARK trial.

Citation: Kawashima H, et al. Rationale and design of a randomized clinical trial comparing safety and efficacy of myval transcatheter heart valve versus contemporary transcatheter heart valves in patients with severe symptomatic aortic valve stenosis: The LANDMARK trial. Rationale and design of a randomized clinical trial comparing safety and efficacy of myval transcatheter heart valve versus contemporary transcatheter heart valves in patients with severe symptomatic aortic valve stenosis: The LANDMARK trial. 2021; 232:23-38. doi: 10.1016/j.ahj.2020.11.001

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/33160946/
