PMID: 33166609
Title: Asymptomatic carotid artery stenosis is associated with cerebral hypoperfusion.

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: We have shown that almost 50% of patients with asymptomatic carotid stenosis (ACS) will demonstrate cognitive impairment. Recent evidence has suggested that cerebral hypoperfusion is an important cause of cognitive impairment. Carotid stenosis can restrict blood flow to the brain, with consequent cerebral hypoperfusion. In contrast, cross-hemispheric collateral compensation through the Circle of Willis, and cerebrovascular vasodilation can also mitigate the effects of flow restriction. It is, therefore, critical to develop a clinically relevant measure of net brain perfusion in patients with ACS that could help in risk stratification and in determining the appropriate treatment. To determine whether ACS results in cerebral hypoperfusion, we developed a novel approach to quantify interhemispheric cerebral perfusion differences, measured as the time to peak (TTP) and mean transit time (MTT) delays using perfusion-weighted magnetic resonance imaging (PWI) of the whole brain. To evaluate the utility of using clinical duplex ultrasonography (DUS) to infer brain perfusion, we also assessed the relationship between the PWI findings and ultrasound-based peak systolic velocity (PSV).
METHODS: Structural and PWI of the brain and magnetic resonance angiography of the carotid arteries were performed in 20 patients with ≥70% ACS. DUS provided the PSV, and magnetic resonance angiography provided plaque geometric measures at the stenosis. Volumetric perfusion maps of the entire brain from PWI were analyzed to obtain the mean interhemispheric differences for the TTP and MTT delays. In addition, the proportion of brain volume that demonstrated a delay in TTP and MTT was also measured. These proportions were measured for increasing severity of perfusion delays (0.5, 1.0, and 2.0 seconds). Finally, perfusion asymmetries on PWI were correlated with the PSV and stenosis features on DUS using Pearson's correlation coefficients.
RESULTS: Of the 20 patients, 18 had unilateral stenosis (8 right and 10 left) and 2 had bilateral stenoses. The interhemispheric (left-right) TTP delays measured for the whole brain volume identified impaired perfusion in the hemisphere ipsilateral to the stenosis in 16 of the 18 patients. More than 45% of the patients had had ischemia in at least one half of their brain volume, with a TTP delay >0.5 second. The TTP and MTT delays showed strong correlations with PSV. In contrast, the correlations with the percentage of stenosis were weaker. The correlations for the PSV were strongest with the perfusion deficits (TTP and MTT delays) measured for the whole brain using our proposed algorithm (r = 0.80 and r = 0.74, respectively) rather than when measured on a single magnetic resonance angiography slice as performed in current clinical protocols (r = 0.31 and r = 0.58, respectively).
CONCLUSIONS: Interhemispheric TTP and MTT delay measured for the whole brain using PWI has provided a new tool for assessing cerebral perfusion deficits in patients with ACS. Carotid stenosis was associated with a detectable reduction in ipsilateral brain perfusion compared with the opposite hemisphere in >80% of patients. The PSV measured at the carotid stenosis using ultrasonography correlated with TTP and MTT delays and might serve as a clinically useful surrogate to brain hypoperfusion in these patients.

Citation: Khan AA, et al. Asymptomatic carotid artery stenosis is associated with cerebral hypoperfusion. Asymptomatic carotid artery stenosis is associated with cerebral hypoperfusion. 2021; 73:1611-1621.e2. doi: 10.1016/j.jvs.2020.10.063

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/33166609/
