PMID: 33160387
Title: An endoscopic dilation method using the rendezvous approach for the treatment of severe anastomotic stenosis after rectal cancer surgery: a case report.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Postoperative anastomotic stenosis is a common complication in colorectal cancer patients (3-30%). Complete anastomotic stenosis is rare; however, when it occurs, almost all cases require surgical treatment. We herein report a case in which endoscopic dilation was effective for treating complete anastomotic stenosis after high anterior resection in a rectal cancer patient.
CASE PRESENTATION: The patient was a 67-year-old man who underwent laparoscopic high anterior resection for rectal cancer (RS, T4a, N0, M0, Stage IIB (TNM Classification of Malignant Tumors)) in May 2018. The postoperative course was good and the patient was discharged on the 12th postoperative day. Subsequently adjuvant chemotherapy was initiated with oral uracil and tegafur plus leucovorin (UFT/LV); however, he complained of frequent defecation and melena after completion of the first course of chemotherapy. Thus, colonoscopy was performed, which revealed anastomotic stenosis. Endoscopic dilation was initially attempted, but failed. Thus, low anterior resection was performed with diverting colostomy. Four additional courses of chemotherapy were administered for 1 month after surgery. At 6 months after the second surgery, colonoscopy was performed, and complete anastomotic stenosis was pointed out again. The patient was successfully treated by endoscopic dilation using the rendezvous method. After this treatment, the lumen of the anastomotic site was observed to have narrowed again and endoscopic dilatation to treat anastomotic stenosis was repeated. In addition, he received local injection of steroids in anastomotic stenosis site. The lumen of anastomotic stenosis remained after the local injection of steroids and closure of colostomy was performed 9 months after the second operation.
CONCLUSIONS: Endoscopic dilation using the rendezvous method was effective for treating anastomotic stenosis after colorectal surgery.

Citation: Nakashima T, et al. An endoscopic dilation method using the rendezvous approach for the treatment of severe anastomotic stenosis after rectal cancer surgery: a case report. An endoscopic dilation method using the rendezvous approach for the treatment of severe anastomotic stenosis after rectal cancer surgery: a case report. 2020; 18:291. doi: 10.1186/s12957-020-02062-9

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/33160387/
