PMID: 33174629
Title: Histopathological characterization of intimal lesions and arterial wall calcification in the arteries of the leg of elderly cadavers.

Abstract: INTRODUCTION: Although arteries of the leg have been studied in extensively diseased amputation specimens, little is known about the composition of vascular lesions present in the general population. The aim of this study was to describe the natural development of adaptive intimal thickening, atherosclerotic lesion development and vascular calcification in the leg of a general elderly population.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Two hundred and seventy postmortem samples from the popliteal and posterior tibial arteries of 14 elderly cadavers were studied histologically.
RESULTS: Atherosclerotic lesions were more frequently observed in the popliteal (60%) than in the posterior tibial artery (34%; p < .0005). These atherosclerotic plaques were most often nonatheromatous (80% and 83% for popliteal and posterior tibial plaques, respectively). The atheroma's that were present were small (most <25% of plaque area). Atherosclerotic plaque calcification was observed more often in the popliteal (39%) than in the posterior tibial samples (17%; p < .0005). Medial arterial calcification was observed more often in the posterior tibial (62%) than in the popliteal samples (46%; p = .008). Plaque calcification and medial arterial calcification were not associated with lumen stenosis.
CONCLUSIONS: In the leg of elderly cadavers, the presence of atherosclerotic plaque and intimal calcification decreases from the proximal popliteal artery to the more distal posterior tibial artery and most atherosclerotic lesions are of the fibrous nonatheromatous type. In contrast, the presence and severity of medial calcification increases from proximal to distal.

Citation: Vos A, et al. Histopathological characterization of intimal lesions and arterial wall calcification in the arteries of the leg of elderly cadavers. Histopathological characterization of intimal lesions and arterial wall calcification in the arteries of the leg of elderly cadavers. 2021; 34:835-841. doi: 10.1002/ca.23701

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/33174629/
