PMID: 33173179
Title: Nitrite in breast milk: roles in neonatal pathophysiology.

Abstract: Dietary nitrate has beneficial effects on health maintenance and prevention of lifestyle-related diseases in adulthood by serving as an alternative source of nitric oxide (NO) through the enterosalivary nitrate-nitrite-NO pathway, particularly when endogenous NO generation is lacking due to vascular endothelial dysfunction. However, this pathway is not developed in the early postnatal period due to a lack of oral commensal nitrate-reducing bacteria and less saliva production than in adults. To compensate for the decrease in nitrite during this period, colostrum contains the highest amount of nitrite compared with transitional, mature, and even artificial milk, suggesting that colostrum plays an important role in tentatively replenishing nitrite, in addition to involving a nutritional aspect, until the enterosalivary nitrate-nitrite-NO pathway is established. Increasing evidence demonstrates that breast milk rich in nitrite can be effective in the prevention of neonatal infections and gastrointestinal diseases such as infantile hypertrophic pyloric stenosis and necrotizing enterocolitis, suggesting that breastfeeding is advantageous for newborns at risk, given the physiological role of nitrite in the early postnatal period. IMPACT: The aim of this review is to discuss the physiological roles of nitrite in breast milk and its implications for neonates. Nitrite in breast milk may compensate for the decrease in nitrite during the early neonatal period until the enterosalivary nitrate-nitrite-nitric oxide pathway is established. Breast milk rich in nitrite may be effective in the prevention of neonatal infections and gastrointestinal diseases by providing nitric oxide bioavailability.

Citation: Kobayashi J. Nitrite in breast milk: roles in neonatal pathophysiology. Nitrite in breast milk: roles in neonatal pathophysiology. 2021; 90:30-36. doi: 10.1038/s41390-020-01247-y

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/33173179/
