PMID: 33178813
Title: Inflammation of carotid plaques and risk of cerebrovascular events.

Abstract: Carotid atherosclerotic plaques represent a risk for ischemic stroke. The data indicate that the risk for distal embolization from atherosclerotic lesions in internal carotid arteries is not related only to the degree of stenosis but also to the composition of plaques. The stability of atherosclerotic plaque depends on the thickness of the fibrous cap and plaque hemorrhage. Recent research indicated that the inflammatory activity of atherosclerotic lesions is pivotal in the progression of atherosclerotic plaques. It also promotes the development of unstable atherosclerotic lesions and is related to thromboembolic cerebrovascular complications. Inflammation destabilizes atherosclerotic plaques through the degradation of their fibrotic structure. Inflammation of atherosclerotic plaques was confirmed by histopathologic findings and levels of circulating inflammatory markers which were correlated to the intensity of the inflammation in atherosclerotic lesions. Recently, new techniques like fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography (18-FDG PET) were developed for the identification of inflammation of atherosclerotic lesions in the vessel wall in vivo. Systemic inflammatory markers, particularly interleukins, tumor necrosis factor-alpha and metalloproteinases were shown to be related to the intensity of the inflammatory process in atherosclerotic lesions and the cerebrovascular events. Identification of inflamed atherosclerotic plaques may help to identify unstable atherosclerotic lesions and subjects at high risk for cerebrovascular incidents who need intensive preventive measures including anti-inflammatory medication.

Citation: Poredos P, et al. Inflammation of carotid plaques and risk of cerebrovascular events. Inflammation of carotid plaques and risk of cerebrovascular events. 2020; 8:1281. doi: 10.21037/atm-2020-cass-15

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/33178813/
