PMID: 33178801
Title: The less invasive paradox, why carotid artery stenting is not suitable for the high-risk patient.

Abstract: Carotid artery stenosis causes significant morbidity and mortality accounting for approximately 8% of all ischaemic strokes. Carotid artery stenting (CAS) offers an endovascular alternative to carotid endarterectomy (CEA), suggested as a viable option in those deemed high-risk for open CEA due to comorbidities or operative technical considerations. A number of large randomised-controlled trials (RCTs) and meta-analysis comparing CAS vs. CEA in unselected patient populations support the conclusion that CAS is associated with a higher risk of stroke and CEA is associated with a higher risk of myocardial infraction. Initial promise for CAS in high-risk patients was demonstrated by The Stenting and Angioplasty with Protection in Patients at High Risk for Endarterectomy (SAPPHIRE) trial that reported CAS was non-inferior to CEA. However, there is evidence to suggest age-related adverse outcome in patients undergoing CAS. There is limited evidence to suggest that CEA could be suitable even in patients deemed high-risk for medical or technical reasons. Further contemporary research on the use of CAS and CEA in high-risk patients is required to re-evaluate current guidelines and high-risk criterion. It is common for a composite outcome of death, ipsilateral stroke and MI which should be questioned as subsequent quality of life is likely to differ after suffering a stroke in comparison to MI. This literature review will discuss the current evidence for CAS and CEA interventions in unselected populations and high-risk patients with carotid disease requiring intervention.

Citation: Machin M, et al. The less invasive paradox, why carotid artery stenting is not suitable for the high-risk patient. The less invasive paradox, why carotid artery stenting is not suitable for the high-risk patient. 2020; 8:1269. doi: 10.21037/atm-19-4085

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/33178801/
