PMID: 33172344
Title: A Comparison of the Short-Term Clinical Effects Between Totally Laparoscopic Radical Gastrectomy With Modified Roux-en-Y Anastomosis and Laparoscopic-Assisted Radical Gastrectomy With Roux-en-Y Anastomosis.

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: To compare the short-term clinical effects between totally laparoscopic radical gastrectomy with modified Roux-en-Y anastomosis, and laparoscopic-assisted radical gastrectomy with Roux-en-Y anastomosis; to explore the safety, feasibility and short-term effect of totally laparoscopic radical gastrectomy with modified Roux-en-Y anastomosis.
METHODS: Data of 75 patients who underwent totally laparoscopic radical gastrectomy with modified Roux-en-Y anastomosis, and 95 patients who underwent laparoscopic-assisted radical gastrectomy with Roux-en-Y anastomosis by the same surgical team were analyzed. During the modified Roux-en-Y anastomosis, the stomach separation and regional lymph node dissection were completed under a laparoscope; the specimen was placed in a bag; gastrojejunostomy was completed; the subumbilicus hole was enlarged to 3 cm; the specimen was taken out; then, the proximal and distal ends of the small intestine were moved outside of the abdominal wall to complete the small intestine-small intestine end-to-side anastomosis.
RESULTS: All 170 operations were successful. The differences in the time of anastomosis and the number of dissected lymph nodes between the 2 groups were not statistically significant (P > 0.05), but in the totally-MA group the amount of bleeding and the length of incision significantly decreased (P < 0.05). The recovery time as measured by breathing unassisted, drinking fluids and getting out of bed was significantly shorter than those in the laparoscopic-assisted group (P < 0.05), and the pain score 1 day after surgery was significantly lower than that of the laparoscopic-assisted group (P < 0.05). One case of duodenal stump leakage and 1 case of esophagojejunostomy leakage were found in the laparoscopic-assisted group. In the totally-MA group, there were no complications such as anastomotic leakage, anastomotic stenosis or anastomotic bleeding, but 2 patients with double primary carcinoma underwent joint radical resection.
CONCLUSION: Compared with laparoscopic-assisted surgery, totally laparoscopic radical gastrectomy with modified Roux-en-Y anastomosis has the advantages of being safer and less traumatic, with associated reductions in bleeding and pain.

Citation: Zhu G, et al. A Comparison of the Short-Term Clinical Effects Between Totally Laparoscopic Radical Gastrectomy With Modified Roux-en-Y Anastomosis and Laparoscopic-Assisted Radical Gastrectomy With Roux-en-Y Anastomosis. A Comparison of the Short-Term Clinical Effects Between Totally Laparoscopic Radical Gastrectomy With Modified Roux-en-Y Anastomosis and Laparoscopic-Assisted Radical Gastrectomy With Roux-en-Y Anastomosis. 2020; 19:1533033820973281. doi: 10.1177/1533033820973281

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/33172344/
