PMID: 33175225
Title: Iatrogenic ureteral injuries: a case series analysis with an emphasis on the predictors of late ureteral strictures and unfavorable outcome in different surgical specialties.

Abstract: INTRODUCTION AND HYPOTHESIS: We aimed to report the demographics and management of iatrogenic ureteral injuries (IUIs) with different surgical specialties. Moreover, our goal was to analyze the predictors of late ureteral strictures and secondary intervention after primary surgical management, and the final effect on the kidney.
METHODS: A retrospective study, between 2006 and 2019, enrolled all patients undergoing urological, abdominal, and pelvic surgeries performed through open, laparoscopic, or endoscopic means. If IUIs were discovered intraoperatively, they were managed either by internal stent or surgical intervention following the standard procedure. For IUIs discovered postoperatively, either percutaneous nephrostomy (PCN) or double J (DJ) ureteral stents were inserted for later endoscopic or surgical management. The final outcomes were divided into two groups: patients with successful primary outcomes and those who required secondary intervention later. All predictors were compared between the two groups.
RESULTS: Forty-eight patients were reviewed: 23 out of 48 (48%) from obstetrics and gynecology (ob/gyn) involving the lower ureter primarily with overall favorable outcomes (82%), 15 (31%) colorectal, and 10 (21%) urology with serious injuries affecting men in the upper ureter. The primary management included open surgery in 12 patients, and drainage (PCN or DJ) in 36 patients. Restoration of ureteral anatomy and kidney function was achieved in all, but 18 cases required a secondary correction, either endoscopically or surgically. Both early and late discovery resulted in the same outcome. On bivariate analysis, only the side of the injury (left side, p = 0.03), and the specialty (colorectal cancer surgeries, p = 0.01) were predictors for late ureteral strictures, and both sustained their significance in multivariate regression analysis.
CONCLUSION: Iatrogenic ureteral injuries associated with ob/gyn surgeries involve the lower ureter, primarily with overall favorable outcomes (82%). Serious ureteroscopic IUIs affect men in the upper ureter with greater frequency. IUIs on the left side and colorectal cancer surgeries are the predictors for late strictures and secondary interventions.

Citation: Elawdy MM, et al. Iatrogenic ureteral injuries: a case series analysis with an emphasis on the predictors of late ureteral strictures and unfavorable outcome in different surgical specialties. Iatrogenic ureteral injuries: a case series analysis with an emphasis on the predictors of late ureteral strictures and unfavorable outcome in different surgical specialties. 2021; 32:3031-3036. doi: 10.1007/s00192-020-04578-w

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/33175225/
