PMID: 33181362
Title: Collagen networks within 3D PEG hydrogels support valvular interstitial cell matrix mineralization.

Abstract: Enzymatically degradable hydrogels were designed for the 3D culture of valvular interstitial cells (VICs), and through the incorporation of various functionalities, we aimed to investigate the role of the tissue microenvironment in promoting the osteogenic properties of VICs and matrix mineralization. Specifically, porcine VICs were encapsulated in a poly(ethylene glycol) hydrogel crosslinked with a matrix metalloproteinase (MMP)-degradable crosslinker (KCGPQG↓IWGQCK) and formed via a thiol-ene photoclick reaction in the presence or absence of collagen type I to promote matrix mineralization. VIC-laden hydrogels were treated with osteogenic medium for up to 15 days, and the osteogenic response was characterized by the expression of RUNX2 as an early marker of an osteoblast-like phenotype, osteocalcin (OCN) as a marker of a mature osteoblast-like phenotype, and vimentin (VIM) as a marker of the fibroblast phenotype. In addition, matrix mineralization was characterized histologically with Von Kossa stain for calcium phosphate. Osteogenic response was further characterized biochemically with calcium assays, and physically via optical density measurements. When the osteogenic medium was supplemented with calcium chloride, OCN expression was upregulated and mineralization was discernable at 12 days of culture. Finally, this platform was used to screen various drug therapeutics that were assessed for their efficacy in preventing mineralization using optical density as a higher throughput readout. Collectively, these results suggest that matrix composition has a key role in supporting mineralization deposition within diseased valve tissue.

Citation: Schroeder ME, et al. Collagen networks within 3D PEG hydrogels support valvular interstitial cell matrix mineralization. Collagen networks within 3D PEG hydrogels support valvular interstitial cell matrix mineralization. 2021; 119:197-210. doi: 10.1016/j.actbio.2020.11.012

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/33181362/
