PMID: 33185351
Title: [Correction of urethral stenosis after proximal hypospadias repair in children].

Abstract: AIM: Urethral stenosis is one of the serious complications after proximal hypospadias repair. A variety of techniques has been suggested for its correction, such as urethral dilation using bougies, endoscopic incisions and one- or two-staged urethroplasty with buccal mucosa. The aim of our study was to improve results of urethral stenosis correction in children after multiple proximal hypospadias repairs.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: A total of 24 patients with urethral stenosis after proximal hypospadias repairs underwent treatment in the Department of Uroandrology of the Russian Childrens Clinical Hospital from 2015 to 2019. The age of the patients was from 3-17 years (average - 4.2) with penoscrotal form of hypospadias in 12, scrotal in 8, and perineal in 4 patients. All children previously underwent 2-8 hypospadias repairs. Patients were divided into 2 groups. In group I, 16 patients had urethral stenosis from the glans of the penis to the penoscrotal area, urethral diameter of 3-4 Ch and ventral penile curvature of 45-60o. These patients were treated with a two-staged urethroplasty, similar to Brackas technique. In group II, 8 patients with urethral stenosis in the penile shaft area, urethral diameter of 6 Ch, without penile curvature were included. They underwent to a one-stage urethroplasty with buccal mucosa graft, which was sutured on the dorsolateral aspect of the urethra, with a formation of the age-appropriate urethra (Dorsolateral Inlay).
RESULTS: All patients in both groups had successful results with flow rate of 8-12 ml/sec.
CONCLUSIONS: The correction of urethral stenosis in children after proximal hypospadias repairs can be performed using buccal mucosa. In cases of long urethral stenosis, urethral diameter of 3-4 Ch, penile curvature, and scarring of the penile skin, a two-staged urethroplasty is recommended. In patients with stenosis of the penile shaft, urethral diameter of 6 Ch and lack of penile curvature, a one-stage urethroplasty with buccal mucosa fixation on the dorsolateral aspect of the urethra (Dorsolateral Inlay) allows to achieve successful results.

Citation: Kozyrev GV, et al. [Correction of urethral stenosis after proximal hypospadias repair in children]. [Correction of urethral stenosis after proximal hypospadias repair in children]. 2020; (unknown volume):73-77.

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/33185351/
