PMID: 33181380
Title: Acute Presentation of Normal Pressure Hydrocephalus After Transcatheter Aortic Valve Implantation: A Novel Interaction Between the First and Third Circulations.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Idiopathic normal pressure hydrocephalus (iNPH) negatively affects gait and cognition abilities and urine continence in the elderly. It is associated with systemic hypertension, although the exact pathophysiology is still unknown. A correlation to increased intracranial pulsatility and decreased compliance was suggested. Transcatheter aortic valve implantation (TAVI) is increasingly used in the treatment of severe AS. New-onset systemic hypertension affects some patients after TAVI.
OBJECTIVE: To identify any association between aortic valve replacement and the development of NPH.
METHODS: A cohort was created retrospectively of all patients who were evaluated for NPH with cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) tap test at a single institute during 2014-2019. Patients were reviewed for a past medical history of aortic valvular disease or aortic valve replacement.
RESULTS: A total of 242 patients underwent evaluations for NPH. Of these patients, 133 were considered to have iNPH. Six patients underwent aortic valve replacement before the initial symptoms of NPH: 1 surgical and 5 TAVI. The time from aortic valve replacement to the initial NPH symptoms was <6 months in 3 patients (as low as 1 month in 2 of them). Two patients had functional improvement after CSF tap test and proceeded to receive a shunt, 4 and 6 months after TAVI, respectively. Two patients developed hypertension after TAVI. Pulse pressure increased by >10 mm Hg in 3 patients after TAVI.
CONCLUSIONS: This is the first case series of symptomatic NPH after TAVI. In this unique subgroup, NPH symptoms can develop rapidly. Post-TAVI iNPH represents a novel interaction between the blood and CSF circulations.

Citation: Laviv Y, et al. Acute Presentation of Normal Pressure Hydrocephalus After Transcatheter Aortic Valve Implantation: A Novel Interaction Between the First and Third Circulations. Acute Presentation of Normal Pressure Hydrocephalus After Transcatheter Aortic Valve Implantation: A Novel Interaction Between the First and Third Circulations. 2021; 146:e731-e738. doi: 10.1016/j.wneu.2020.11.007

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/33181380/
