PMID: 33188752
Title: The Fate of Congenitally Corrected Transposition of the Great Arteries Unoperated Before Adulthood.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: The outcomes, therapeutic strategies, and risk factors of congenital corrected transposition of great arteries (ccTGA) unoperated before adulthood are unclear.
METHODS: From October 2009 to January 2018, 117 adult ccTGA patients, classified into ccTGA with intact ventricular septum, ventricular septum defect, and pulmonary valve or subpulmonary outflow tract stenosis (PS) groups, were reviewed. Statistical analysis was performed with SPSS 19.0 (IBM, Armonk, NY).
RESULTS: At the first visit, no patients suffered operation. The PS group had the least systemic atrioventricular valve regurgitation and the greatest systemic ventricular ejection fraction. All 49 patients underwent surgery. From the first visit to last follow-up, systemic ventricular ejection fraction of unoperated ccTGA decreased significantly. In the intact ventricular septum group, patients receiving systemic atrioventricular valve replacement/valvuloplasty had a significantly increased systemic ventricular ejection fraction and statistically more freedom from death and transplant than unoperated. In the ventricular septum defect group the late systemic ventricular ejection fraction of operated patients was not statistically different from their basic data at first visit. In the PS group patients receiving physiologic repair had significantly decreased systemic ventricular ejection fractions. Severe systemic atrioventricular valve regurgitation, physiologic repair, and systemic ventricular dysfunction (ejection fraction <40%) were risk factors for mortality, transplant, and congestive heart failure.
CONCLUSIONS: PS protects against systemic atrioventricular valve regurgitation and ventricular dysfunction. Systemic atrioventricular valve replacement/valvuloplasty improved systemic ventricular function for ccTGA with an intact ventricular septum. Physiologic repair was not ideal for ccTGA with PS. Severe systemic atrioventricular valve regurgitation and systemic ventricular dysfunction were associated with suboptimal outcomes.

Citation: Liu R, et al. The Fate of Congenitally Corrected Transposition of the Great Arteries Unoperated Before Adulthood. The Fate of Congenitally Corrected Transposition of the Great Arteries Unoperated Before Adulthood. 2021; 112:2029-2037. doi: 10.1016/j.athoracsur.2020.10.025

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/33188752/
