PMID: 33184067
Title: Intentional Stent Stenosis to Prevent Hyperperfusion Syndrome after Carotid Artery Stenting for Extremely High-Grade Stenosis.

Abstract: BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: Intracranial hemorrhage due to hyperperfusion syndrome is a severe carotid artery stent placement complication of extremely high-grade stenosis, causing hemodynamic insufficiency. To prevent hyperperfusion syndrome, we attempted intentional residual stent stenosis and implemented "gentle" carotid artery stent placement, defined as carotid artery stent placement using a closed-cell stent coupled with slight balloon predilation, without balloon postdilation. Gradual stent expansion was expected. We investigated the incidence of hyperperfusion syndrome and long-term outcomes after gentle carotid artery stent placement.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: We included patients who underwent carotid artery stent placement for extremely high-grade stenosis from January 2015 to March 2019. We defined extremely high-grade stenosis as carotid stenosis with conventional angiographic "slow flow" and a reduced MCA signal intensity on MRA. A reduced MCA signal intensity was defined as MCA with a relative signal intensity of <0.9 in the ipsilateral compared with the contralateral MCA. We evaluated the stent diameter, CBF on SPECT, hyperperfusion syndrome, and intracranial hemorrhage. We defined hyperperfusion syndrome as a triad of ipsilateral headache, seizure, and hemiparesis.
RESULTS: Twenty-eight of the 191 patients met our inclusion criteria. After carotid artery stent placement, their median minimal stent diameter was 2.9 mm, which expanded to 3.9 mm at 4 months. Neither cerebral hyperperfusion syndrome nor intracranial hemorrhage occurred.
CONCLUSIONS: The gentle carotid artery stent placement strategy for intentional residual stent stenosis may prevent hyperperfusion syndrome in high-risk patients. Stents spontaneously dilated in 4 months.

Citation: Mori T, et al. Intentional Stent Stenosis to Prevent Hyperperfusion Syndrome after Carotid Artery Stenting for Extremely High-Grade Stenosis. Intentional Stent Stenosis to Prevent Hyperperfusion Syndrome after Carotid Artery Stenting for Extremely High-Grade Stenosis. 2021; 42:132-137. doi: 10.3174/ajnr.A6853

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/33184067/
