PMID: 33197841
Title: Identification of a novel CYP26A1 mutation in a Chinese family with congenital microtia.

Abstract: OBJECTIVES: Microtia is defined as a congenital malformation characterized by a small, abnormally shaped auricle, with atresia or stenosis of the auditory canal. This study investigated a mutation of the cytochrome P450, family 26, subfamily A, polypeptide 1(CYP26A1) gene, which is considered important in craniofacial development, in a family affected with microtia.
METHODS: Whole-exome sequencing (WES) was performed on the proband and his family members to identify disease-associated variants. Computational predictions of the altered protein were analyzed using several bioinformatics tools. The wild-type (WT) and mutant forms of CYP26A1 cDNA were transfected into human embryonic kidney cells, and the mRNA and protein levels were compared using quantitative polymerase chain reaction (qPCR) and Western blot analyses.
RESULTS: In this two-generation family, the proband and his mother were diagnosed with unilateral microtia. Unilateral microtia and ipsilateral accessory ear were observed in one of the twins, who were sisters of the proband. The father and the other twin showed no abnormal clinical features. A heterozygous mutation of a C to T in the CYP26A1 gene, which leads to truncation of the CYP26A1 protein, was identified in this family. The nonsense mutation cosegregated with patients and was absent in normal members of the family. The prediction software indicated that it was a possibly pathogenic mutation. The structure of the protein varied significantly between the WT and mutant proteins. Functional analysis showed that this mutation caused a significant decrease in both the mRNA and protein levels.
CONCLUSIONS: Our findings suggest that this mutation of CYP26A1 may be a pathogenic factor leading to the phenotypes of microtia and accessory ear in this family. Further studies are needed to prove the function of this mutation and to explore the possible mechanism by which this variant is involved in the occurrence of microtia.

Citation: Guo P, et al. Identification of a novel CYP26A1 mutation in a Chinese family with congenital microtia. Identification of a novel CYP26A1 mutation in a Chinese family with congenital microtia. 2020; 139:110488. doi: 10.1016/j.ijporl.2020.110488

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/33197841/
