PMID: 33196311
Title: Benefit-Risk Tradeoffs in Assessment of New Drugs and Devices.

Abstract: Balancing benefits and risks is a complex task that poses a major challenge, both to the approval of new medicines and devices by regulatory authorities and in therapeutic decision-making in practice. Several analysis methods and visualization tools have been developed to help evaluate and communicate whether the benefit-risk profile is favorable or unfavorable. In this White Paper, we describe approaches to benefit-risk assessment using qualitative approaches such as the Benefit Risk Action Team framework developed by the Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America, and the Benefit-Risk Framework developed by the United States Food and Drug Administration; and quantitative approaches such as the numbers needed to treat for benefit and harm, the benefit-risk ratio, and Incremental Net Benefit. We give illustrative examples of benefit-risk evaluations using 4 treatment interventions including sodium glucose cotransporter 2 inhibitors in patients with type 2 diabetes; a direct antithrombin agent, dabigatran, for reducing stroke and systemic embolism in patients with nonvalvular atrial fibrillation; transcatheter aortic valve replacement in patients with symptomatic severe aortic valve stenosis; and antiplatelet agents vorapaxar and prasugrel for reducing cardiovascular events in patients at high cardiovascular risk. Regular applications of structured benefit-risk assessment, whether qualitative, quantitative, or both, enabled by easy-to-understand graphical presentations that capture uncertainties around the benefit-risk metric, may aid shared decision-making and enhance transparency of those decisions.

Citation: Kaul S, et al. Benefit-Risk Tradeoffs in Assessment of New Drugs and Devices. Benefit-Risk Tradeoffs in Assessment of New Drugs and Devices. 2020; 142:1974-1988. doi: 10.1161/CIRCULATIONAHA.120.048933

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/33196311/
