PMID: 33190786
Title: New Technique for Magnetic Compression Anastomosis Without Incision for Gastrointestinal Obstruction.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Magnetic compression anastomosis (MCA) is a novel technique of anastomosis similar to that with surgery, but in a minimally invasive manner. Few reports are available on the utility and feasibility of MCA for gastrointestinal anastomosis without requiring general anesthesia in humans, owing to the difficulty of delivering magnets. We evaluated the safety, efficacy, and feasibility of MCA in gastrointestinal obstruction without requiring general anesthesia.
STUDY DESIGN: In this retrospective single-center study, patients who underwent MCA from January 2013 to October 2019 were included. Adult patients with gastrointestinal obstruction or stenosis, irrespective of the underlying disease, with severe comorbidities, complicated abdominal surgical history, or postoperative complications, and who were unable to tolerate surgery, were eligible for inclusion. Two magnets were delivered by a combination of endoscopic and fluoroscopic procedures and placed in the lumen of the organ to be anastomosed. The main outcome was the technical success of MCA.
RESULTS: Fourteen patients underwent MCA, and the technical success of MCA was achieved in 100% of the cases. The mean procedural time, duration for anastomosis formation, and postoperative hospital stay were 44 minutes, 13 days, and 36 days, respectively. Two patients underwent anastomotic restenosis, and 1 patient had an anastomotic perforation due to balloon dilatation to prevent restenosis. The mean follow-up period was 34 months.
CONCLUSIONS: MCA without general anesthesia for gastrointestinal anastomosis is safe, useful, and feasible. MCA can be a valuable alternative to surgery in gastrointestinal obstruction.

Citation: Kamada T, et al. New Technique for Magnetic Compression Anastomosis Without Incision for Gastrointestinal Obstruction. New Technique for Magnetic Compression Anastomosis Without Incision for Gastrointestinal Obstruction. 2021; 232:170-177.e2. doi: 10.1016/j.jamcollsurg.2020.10.012

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/33190786/
