PMID: 33191363
Title: Characteristics of Symptomatic Basilar Artery Stenosis Using High-Resolution Magnetic Resonance Imaging in Ischemic Stroke Patients.

Abstract: AIM: Arterial narrowing associated with the progression of atherosclerosis leads to serious conditions such as stroke, coronary artery disease, or even death. High-resolution magnetic resonance imaging (HR-MRI) is better for detecting arterial wall status and discriminating tissue characteristics than conventional imaging. We used HR-MRI to investigate the frequency of patients with basilar artery (BA) stenosis observed distinctively on routine angiography and identify the clinical features associated with this imaging. We analyzed the nature of the vessel wall causing the basal artery stenosis by HR-MRI, and related clinical factors.
METHODS: Patients with BA stenosis underwent HR-MRI. The association between atherosclerosis (with or without intraplaque hemorrhage [IPH]) and dissection was analyzed. High signal intensity within a BA plaque on magnetization-prepared rapid acquisition with gradient echo was defined as an area with a signal intensity ＞200% that of the adjacent muscle.
RESULTS: Fifteen patients were diagnosed with BA dissection on HR-MRI. IPH was identified in 14 patients. Patients with BA plaque with IPH were older and had higher prevalence of hypertension and hyperlipidemia than the other patients. The frequencies of alcohol drinking and number of current smokers were higher in the dissection group than in the other groups. Hyperlipidemia was identified as an influencing factor for IPH development in atherosclerotic plaque. Young age was identified as the influencing factor for the occurrence of BA dissection.
CONCLUSIONS: The etiology of stenosis or occlusion was unclear until the development of HR-MRI. With HR-MRI, stroke etiology is better understood, and factors affecting each etiology can be identified. Further studies that clarify the etiology of posterior circulation stroke are required.

Citation: Kang HG, et al. Characteristics of Symptomatic Basilar Artery Stenosis Using High-Resolution Magnetic Resonance Imaging in Ischemic Stroke Patients. Characteristics of Symptomatic Basilar Artery Stenosis Using High-Resolution Magnetic Resonance Imaging in Ischemic Stroke Patients. 2021; 28:1063-1070. doi: 10.5551/jat.58214

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/33191363/
