PMID: 33199247
Title: Three-Year Outcomes With a Contemporary Self-Expanding Transcatheter Valve From the Evolut PRO US Clinical Study.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Paravalvular regurgitation (PVR) following transcatheter aortic valve replacement (TAVR) is associated with increased morbidity and mortality. PVR continues to plague TAVR jeopardizing long-term results. New device iterations, such as the self-expandable Evolut PRO valve, aim to decrease PVR while maintaining optimal hemodynamics. This study sought to evaluate clinical and hemodynamic performance of the Evolut PRO system at 3 years.
METHODS: The Evolut PRO US Clinical Study included 60 patients at high or extreme surgical risk undergoing TAVR with the Evolut PRO valve at 8 centers in the United States. Clinical outcomes were evaluated using Valve Academic Research Consortium (VARC)-2 criteria and included all-cause mortality, cardiovascular mortality, disabling stroke and valve complications. An independent core laboratory centrally assessed all echocardiographic measures.
RESULTS: At 3 years, all-cause mortality was 25.8% (cardiovascular mortality 16.5%) and the disabling stroke rate was 10.7%. There were no cases of repeat valve intervention, endocarditis or coronary obstruction. Valve thrombosis was identified in 1 patient 2 years post-procedure and was treated medically. Hemodynamics at 3 years included a mean gradient of 7.2 ± 4.5 mm Hg, an effective orifice area of 2.0 ± 0.5 cm2, and 88.2% of patients had no or trace PVR. The remaining patients had mild PVR. Most of the surviving patients (80.6%) had New York Heart Association class I symptoms at 3 years.
CONCLUSION: Outcomes at 3-years following TAVR with a contemporary self-expanding prosthesis are favorable, with no signal of valve deterioration, excellent hemodynamics including very low prevalence of PVR.

Citation: Wyler von Ballmoos MC, et al. Three-Year Outcomes With a Contemporary Self-Expanding Transcatheter Valve From the Evolut PRO US Clinical Study. Three-Year Outcomes With a Contemporary Self-Expanding Transcatheter Valve From the Evolut PRO US Clinical Study. 2021; 26:12-16. doi: 10.1016/j.carrev.2020.11.007

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/33199247/
