PMID: 33204525
Title: Metabolic Modulation and Potential Biomarkers of the Prognosis Identification for Severe Aortic Stenosis after TAVR by a Metabolomics Study.

Abstract: OBJECTIVES: To investigate the metabolic profile in patients with aortic stenosis (AS) after transcatheter aortic valve replacement (TAVR) and explore the potential biomarkers to predict prognosis after TAVR based on metabolomics.
METHODS AND RESULTS: Fifty-nine consecutive AS patients were prospectively recruited. Blood samples from the ascending aorta, coronary sinus, and peripheral vein at before and after TAVR were collected, respectively. Liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry and gas chromatography-mass spectrometry were performed to analyze the metabolic profile before and after TAVR. Influential metabolites were identified by integrating the univariate test, multivariate analysis, and weighted gene coexpression network analysis (WGCNA) algorithm. PLS-DA analysis revealed a significant extremely early (within 30 minutes after TAVR) alterations of metabolites in the ascending aorta, coronary sinus, and peripheral vein. The early (within 7 days after TAVR) changed metabolites in the peripheral vein were involved in purine metabolism, primary bile acid biosynthesis, glycerolipid metabolism, amino sugar and nucleotide sugar metabolism, one carbon pool by folate and alanine, and the aspartate and glutamate metabolism pathway. We used volcano plots to find that the cardiac-specific changed metabolites were enriched to the sphingolipid metabolism pathway after TAVR. Besides, WGCNA algorithm was performed to reveal that arginine and proline metabolites could reflect left ventricle regression to some extent.
CONCLUSION: This is the first study to reveal systemic and cardiac metabolites changed significantly in patients with AS after TAVR. Some altered metabolites involved in the arginine and proline metabolism pathway in the peripheral vein could predict left ventricle regression, which merited further study.

Citation: Liao Y, et al. Metabolic Modulation and Potential Biomarkers of the Prognosis Identification for Severe Aortic Stenosis after TAVR by a Metabolomics Study. Metabolic Modulation and Potential Biomarkers of the Prognosis Identification for Severe Aortic Stenosis after TAVR by a Metabolomics Study. 2020; 2020:3946913. doi: 10.1155/2020/3946913

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/33204525/
