PMID: 33204928
Title: A spiraling journey into the small bowel: a case series of novel motorized power spiral enteroscopies.

Abstract: BACKGROUND AND AIMS: The small bowel has, to date, remained a difficult area to access via endoscopy. The novel motorized power spiral enteroscopy, recently introduced, has more depth of insertion and is of shorter duration. Presented here is a case series of motorized spiral enteroscopies.
METHODS: Motorized spiral enteroscopy is indicated for patients requiring deep enteroscopy (eg, for a diagnosis of obscure GI bleeding, suspected inflammatory bowel disorder) and for therapeutic interventions, such as polypectomy, hemostasis, or stricture dilatation. It is contraindicated in patients who are not eligible for general anesthesia, with perforation, or with coagulopathy and in the pediatric population. The contraindications for the anterograde route are gastroesophageal varices, foregut stenosis, eosinophilic esophagitis, and so on. The retrograde approach is contraindicated in active colitis, anal stenosis, or colonic stricture. Informed consent was sought from all the patients.
RESULTS: The procedure was successful in 13 of 14 (92.8%) in that the target site was reached or panenteroscopy was confirmed. The diagnoses were stricture and ulcers of the jejunum or ileum. The procedures performed were argon plasma coagulation and stricture dilation. The average duration of anterograde enteroscopy was 61.1 minutes and retrograde enteroscopy was 90 minutes. The major adverse events were hypothermia (3 of 14) and pancreatitis (1 of 14), from which the patients recovered fully.
CONCLUSIONS: Novel motorized power spiral enteroscopy is a great tool in small-bowel diagnostics and therapeutics. Speed and ease add to the attractiveness of the procedure.

Citation: Prasad M, et al. A spiraling journey into the small bowel: a case series of novel motorized power spiral enteroscopies. A spiraling journey into the small bowel: a case series of novel motorized power spiral enteroscopies. 2020; 5:591-596. doi: 10.1016/j.vgie.2020.08.001

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/33204928/
