PMID: 33204950
Title: ROTAVI: simultaneous left main rotablation and transcutaneous aortic valve implantation in calcified coronaries and severe aortic stenosis - a case report.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: There is a high incidence of calcified coronary artery disease in patients with severe valvular aortic stenosis (AS). With transcutaneous aortic valve replacement (TAVR) as one of the promising options for severe AS in high and intermediate surgical risk patients; we will encounter more and more patients who will require both complex percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) with rotablation (RA) and TAVR. The timing of PCI in patients undergoing TAVR; however remains indecisive. Due to the complexity of procedures and the risks involved, very few cases of concomitant TAVR and coronary RA have been reported so far.
CASE SUMMARY: Seventy-five years old high surgical risk female had severe AS with calcified left main (LM) distal and ostial left anterior descending (LAD) artery lesion. Successful PCI with RA to LM-LAD lesion was done followed by uneventful transfemoral TAVR in the same setting.
DISCUSSION: This is probably one of the very few cases reported where PCI to LM with RA and TAVR was done successfully in the same setting. Since the calcified lesion was focal and left ventricular ejection fraction of the patient was normal, we went ahead with PCI without prior balloon dilatation of aortic valve (BAV) which was a deviation from the prior reported cases, where BAV was performed prior to complex PCI to improve the cardiac output. We herein discuss our case and thoughts about concomitant complex PCI and TAVR.

Citation: Gupta H, et al. ROTAVI: simultaneous left main rotablation and transcutaneous aortic valve implantation in calcified coronaries and severe aortic stenosis - a case report. ROTAVI: simultaneous left main rotablation and transcutaneous aortic valve implantation in calcified coronaries and severe aortic stenosis - a case report. 2020; 4:1-5. doi: 10.1093/ehjcr/ytaa196

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/33204950/
