PMID: 33208566
Title: Effect of Rivaroxaban and Clopidogrel Combination Therapy on In-Stent Responses After Everolimus-Eluting Stent Implantation in a Porcine Coronary Model.

Abstract: AIM: According to recent clinical trials, a combination of direct oral anticoagulants with antiplatelet drugs is often recommended for atrial fibrillation patients who receive drug-eluting stents (DESs). Although the optimal combination comprises direct factor Xa inhibitors and a P2Y<sub>12</sub> receptor antagonist (or aspirin), their influence on vascular responses to DESs remains unclear.
METHODS: Pigs were given either aspirin and clopidogrel (dual antiplatelet therapy [DAPT] group), aspirin and rivaroxaban (AR group), or clopidogrel and rivaroxaban (CR group), followed by everolimus-eluting stent (Promus Element) implantation into the coronary artery. Stented coronary arteries were evaluated via intravascular optical coherence tomography (OCT) and histological analysis at 1 and 3 months.
RESULTS: OCT revealed lower neointimal thickness in the DAPT group and comparable thickness among all groups at 1 and 3 months, respectively. Histological analyses revealed comparable neointimal area among all groups and the smallest neointimal area in the CR group at 1 and 3 months, respectively. In the DAPT and AR groups, the neointima continued to grow from 1 to 3 months. A shortened time course for neointima growth was observed in the CR group, with rapid growth within a month (maintained for 3 months). A higher incidence of in-stent thrombi was observed in the AR group at 1 month; no thrombi were found in either group at 3 months. More smooth muscle cells with contractile features were found in the CR group at both 1 and 3 months.
CONCLUSIONS: Our results proved the noninferiority of the combination of rivaroxaban with an antiplatelet drug, particularly the dual therapy using rivaroxaban and clopidogrel, compared to DAPT after DES implantation.

Citation: Kitano D, et al. Effect of Rivaroxaban and Clopidogrel Combination Therapy on In-Stent Responses After Everolimus-Eluting Stent Implantation in a Porcine Coronary Model. Effect of Rivaroxaban and Clopidogrel Combination Therapy on In-Stent Responses After Everolimus-Eluting Stent Implantation in a Porcine Coronary Model. 2022; 29:69-81. doi: 10.5551/jat.56549

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/33208566/
