PMID: 33210126
Title: Mid- to long-term follow-up of pulmonary valve replacement with BioIntegral injectable valve.

Abstract: OBJECTIVES: Chronic pulmonary valve (PV) regurgitation is a common late sequela after repair of congenital heart diseases like tetralogy of Fallot or pulmonary stenosis, leading to right ventricular dilatation and failure and increased late morbidity and mortality. Timely reoperation may lead to a complete right ventricular recovery. An injectable PV allows pulmonary valve replacement, with or without cardiopulmonary bypass, under direct observation, thereby minimizing the impact of surgery on cardiac function. The aim of this study was to evaluate the feasibility and mid- to long-term clinical outcomes with this device.
METHODS: From April 2007 to October 2019, a total of 85 symptomatic patients with severe pulmonary regurgitation or pulmonary stenosis underwent pulmonary valve replacement with an injectable stented pulmonary prosthesis. Data were collected from the international proctoring registry. Mean patient age was 26.7 years. The underlying diagnosis was repaired tetralogy of Fallot in 69.4% patients; moderate or severe pulmonary regurgitation was present in 72.9%. All patients had echocardiographic scans before the operation and during the follow-up period. A total of 54.1% patients also had preoperative/postoperative cardiac magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) or catheterization; 25.9% had off-pump implants. In 53% patients, pulmonary valve replacement was associated with the repair of other cardiac defects.
RESULTS: Minor postoperative complications were observed in 10.8% patients. The overall mortality rate was 2.3%; mortality after valve replacement was linked to a severe cardiac insufficiency and it was not related to a prosthesis failure; 1 prosthesis was explanted from 1 patient because of endocarditis, and 6% of patients developed PV stenosis; minor complications occurred in 4.8%. The mean follow-up period was 4.8 years (2 months-12.7 years); 42% of the patients were followed for more than 5 years. Follow-up echocardiography and cardiac MRI showed a significant reduction in RV size and low gradients across the PV.
CONCLUSIONS: An injectable PV may be implanted without cardiopulmonary bypass and in a hybrid operating theatre with minimal surgical impact. The bioprosthesis, available up to large sizes, has a low profile, laminar flow and no risk of coronary artery compression. Incidence of endocarditis is rare. The lack of a suture ring permits the implant of a relatively larger prosthesis, thereby avoiding a right ventricular outflow tract obstruction. This device permits future percutaneous valve-in-valve procedures, if needed. Results concerning durability are encouraging, and mid- to long-term haemodynamic performance is excellent.

Citation: Ghiselli S, et al. Mid- to long-term follow-up of pulmonary valve replacement with BioIntegral injectable valve. Mid- to long-term follow-up of pulmonary valve replacement with BioIntegral injectable valve. 2020; (unknown volume):(unknown pages). doi: 10.1093/ejcts/ezaa337

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/33210126/
