PMID: 33211449
Title: N/A

Abstract: None: Heart valve disease happens when any of the heart’s valves either cannot open well enough to let blood flow through (stenosis) or cannot close well enough to prevent backflow of the blood (regurgitation). Heart valve disease can affect any of the four heart valves in different ways, including a combination of stenosis and regurgitation. It can be degenerative due to “wear and tear” on the valve or be functional due to the internal structure of the valve. People with heart valve disease, particularly aortic and mitral valve disease, can experience heart failure symptoms including chest pain, shortness of breath, and fatigue as the heart works harder to pump blood through the body. Untreated, this condition can lead to heart failure and the inability to perform activities of daily life. Multiple surgical procedures for valve replacement or repair exist. Open heart procedures have traditionally been the gold standard of care for heart valve disease. However for patients who are at high risk of complications or death due to open heart surgery, minimally invasive techniques are an emerging alterative option. For example, MitraClip is an emerging health technology that enables the repair of the mitral valve. It is placed in the heart via a catheter inserted in the femoral artery, and holds segments of the valve together to reduce regurgitation. Similarly, transcatheter aortic valve implantation (TAVI) is an established procedure for those at high surgical risk. Minimally invasive procedures tend to be delivered in specialist cardiac centres. Patients who undergo minimally invasive procedures tend to have shorter hospital stays than those who undergo open heart surgery. As minimally invasive procedures, using technologies such as MitraClip, become more common there is a need to understand how people with heart valve disease navigate and experience treatment of their condition. The purpose of this report is to describe how people with heart valve disease and those who treat them understand and experience treatment and care, including open and minimally invasive surgical techniques.

Citation: N/A

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/33211449/
