PMID: 33216676
Title: The Outcome of Pediatric Esophageal Strictures Managed with Endoscopic Balloon Dilation in Saudi Arabia.

Abstract: Background: Esophageal strictures can affect nutrition of infants and children impairing their weight gain. To our knowledge, this is the first article evaluating and comparing between the two methods of dilation in terms of outcome and one of few, if any, to assess both weight and height to evaluate the nutritional outcomes following dilation. To determine the safety, efficacy, and long-term effects of endoscopic dilation in managing pediatric esophageal strictures by assessing the clinical and nutritional outcomes. Methods: A retrospective study of 137 patients with esophageal strictures who underwent either endoscopic balloon dilatation or Savary dilatation, or both. Outcome parameters measured include the number of dilatations, nutritional status, and if symptoms had been relieved. Results: The most frequent cause of esophageal strictures was post-tracheoesophageal fistula repair (n = 51, 37.2%), and the majority were lower third strictures (n = 47, 34.3%). However, 8 cases (5.8%) had failed the dilation procedure. Savary dilatation had the highest number of complications. Overall, success rate was 79.6%. Higher success rate was for cases dilated by endoscopic balloon dilation (EBD) (n = 47, 90.4%). There was a statistically significant correlation between the success rate and the method of dilatation (P = .042). Statistically significant increment of weight was recorded for lower strictures (P = .001). Conclusion: EBD was associated with the highest success rate. Endoscopic dilatations are safe and efficient in managing pediatric esophageal strictures with improvement in both clinical and nutritional outcomes.

Citation: Raboei E, et al. The Outcome of Pediatric Esophageal Strictures Managed with Endoscopic Balloon Dilation in Saudi Arabia. The Outcome of Pediatric Esophageal Strictures Managed with Endoscopic Balloon Dilation in Saudi Arabia. 2021; 31:210-215. doi: 10.1089/lap.2020.0455

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/33216676/
