PMID: 33219871
Title: The holmium:YAG laser lithotripsy-a non-invasive tool for removal of midsize stones of major salivary glands.

Abstract: Incorporeal lithotripsy by using holmium:YAG laser has been recently successfully spread and used in the treatment of urolithiasis. Although this method is not as common in salivary gland surgery, it is also recommended for endoscopic treatment of sialolithiasis. In this study, we decided to analyse effectiveness of holmium:YAG laser method among patients with midsize stones as the treatment in this particular population is still not determined and remains in dispute. Thus, the primary aim of the study is a prospective, complex analysis of incorporeal holmium:YAG laser lithotripsy effectiveness and safety in patients suffering from sialolithiasis. The examined group consisted of 32 consecutive patients, 17 female (53%) and 15 male (47%). The average age was 42 (age range 22-70). In our series, sialoendoscopy with intraductal lithotripsy was performed in patients with wide range of stone's diameter (3 to 10 mm). The calculi were removed with foreign body forceps or retrieval basket, after stone fragmentation with holmium:YAG laser. The power of the laser during surgery was set at 2.5 to 3.5 W. One shot energy equalled 0.5-0.7 J with frequency of 5 Hz. The bivariate Pearson Correlation and a point-biserial correlation were used to analyse the data. Total success rate of holmium:YAG laser lithotripsy in this consecutive group was equal to 90% and efficacy in the group with excluded cases when endoscopic approach difficulties were experienced (stone not visible) reached 93%. The long-term follow-up revealed that in 26 patients (84%), complete recovery was achieved. Two patients developed Wharton's duct stenosis and one Stensen's duct orifice stenosis (9.5%), of whom one required reoperation. Two patients eventually underwent total excision of submandibular gland. Sialoendoscopy combined with incorporeal laser-assisted lithotripsy proved to be effective and safe method for treatment of sialothiasis with midsize stones (4-8 mm) in population of clinic. Even taking into account the prevalence of complications associated with holmium:YAG laser, it is still safer alternative compared to open surgery where there is a significant risk of the bleeding, wound infection or injury of the facial nerve.

Citation: Kałużny J, et al. The holmium:YAG laser lithotripsy-a non-invasive tool for removal of midsize stones of major salivary glands. The holmium:YAG laser lithotripsy-a non-invasive tool for removal of midsize stones of major salivary glands. 2022; 37:163-169. doi: 10.1007/s10103-020-03201-0

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/33219871/
