PMID: 33223811
Title: Analysis of the Determinants, Characteristics and Management of Recurrent Urethral Strictures.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: The presentation and management of the recurrent urethral stricture varies and depends largely on the initial treatment and the characteristics of the recurrent stricture. What are the likely determinants of recurrence?
PATIENTS AND METHODS: This is a retrospective review of all patients who had urethroplasties from January 2013 to December 2017 for anterior urethral strictures in our institution. Patients with a recurrence of the strictures were identified and reviewed, while patients with hypospadias and posterior urethral stenosis or contractures were excluded from the study. The etiology, length, site, and type of urethroplasties were evaluated as variables that may contribute to the recurrence of strictures using inferential statistics and logistic regression analysis. Time to recurrence was analyzed using the Kaplan-Meier method.
RESULTS: A total of 206 urethroplasties for anterior urethral strictures were evaluated with recurrence of strictures noted in 29 patients and a recurrence rate of 14.1%. Recurrence was higher in long-segment strictures, penobulbar strictures, and postinflammatory strictures. Pedicle flaps were used in 45% of the strictures that reoccurred. Using Chi-square, the length, site, of urethroplasties were statistically significant determinants of recurrence; however, only the site of stricture was found to be statistically significant following logistic regression analysis. The site of recurrence was in the bulbar urethra in 79% and the penile urethra in 21%. The choice of treatment of the recurrent strictures was anastomotic urethroplasty in 76.5%. The mean time to failure in this study was 13 months with a range of 6-120 months.
CONCLUSION: In this study, the site of stricture was found to be the most determinant of stricture recurrence, with penobulbar strictures mostly implicated. Long-segment strictures were also noted to contribute to some extent in recurrence. These recurrent strictures were mostly short-segment strictures in the bulbar urethra which were amenable to excision and anastomosis to achieve cure.

Citation: Oyelowo N, et al. Analysis of the Determinants, Characteristics and Management of Recurrent Urethral Strictures. Analysis of the Determinants, Characteristics and Management of Recurrent Urethral Strictures. 2020; 26:130-134. doi: 10.4103/njs.NJS_54_19

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/33223811/
