PMID: 33223651
Title: Management of root canal stenosis and external inflammatory resorption by surgical root reconstruction using biodentine.

Abstract: Root canal stenosis and external inflammatory root resorption are potential consequence of trauma that can occur depending on the severity of the injury. Luxation injuries induce reduced blood supply to the pulp, which leads to calcification/narrowing of root canals leading to root canal stenosis. External inflammatory cervical resorption occurs when there has been the loss of cementum due to damage to the external surface of tooth root during trauma, plus root canal system becoming infected with bacteria. External inflammatory resorption can ultimately lead to loss of tooth if it is not managed in a timely manner. The treatment should aim toward the complete suppression of all tissues undergoing resorption and the reconstruction of the resorptive defect by the placement of a suitable bioactive material. This case report presents the management of root canal stenosis in the maxillary left central incisor in 35-year-old female and management of Class IV external invasive cervical and apical inflammatory resorption in maxillary right central incisor, both of which were diagnosed with the help of cone-beam computed tomography scan. The treatment of external inflammatory resorption included surgical excision of granulation tissue and root reconstruction with Biodentine. Twelve months follow-up showed successful outcomes for both the teeth treated for root canal stenosis and external invasive inflammatory resorption leading retention of the traumatized teeth with otherwise poor prognosis.

Citation: Agrawal VS and Kapoor S. Management of root canal stenosis and external inflammatory resorption by surgical root reconstruction using biodentine. Management of root canal stenosis and external inflammatory resorption by surgical root reconstruction using biodentine. 2020; 23:102-106. doi: 10.4103/JCD.JCD_128_20

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/33223651/
