PMID: 33228957
Title: Long-Term Patency and Final Structure After Superficial Temporal Artery-Middle Cerebral Artery Bypass Surgery: A Retrospective Study.

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: To investigate long-term bypass patency and final structure for patients who underwent superficial temporal artery (STA)-middle cerebral artery (MCA) bypass.
METHODS: This study retrospectively evaluated 20 patients who underwent STA-MCA bypass and had 2-year follow-up with cerebral angiography. Patients were divided into internal carotid artery occlusion (n = 11) and MCA occlusion or stenosis (n = 9) groups, and diagnosis was either arteriosclerotic (n = 14) or nonarteriosclerotic (n = 6) disease. Final bypass formation was examined with cerebral angiography at 2 years postoperatively. Diameters of the STA, middle meningeal artery (MMA), and deep temporal artery (DTA) were measured at preoperative angiography and at 2-year follow-up.
RESULTS: No significant differences in STA, MMA, and DTA diameters were reported between the internal carotid artery versus MCA group. For patients with arteriosclerotic disease, thicker STA diameters were noted on preoperative angiography. For patients with nonarteriosclerotic disease, MMA and DTA dilatation was noted on 2-year follow-up imaging. For patients with arteriosclerotic disease, all direct bypasses were patent at 2 years. For patients with nonarteriosclerotic disease, remarkable angiogenesis was demonstrated.
CONCLUSIONS: Long-term patency of a direct bypass may be correlated with arteriosclerotic or nonarteriosclerotic etiology. An indirect bypass route may develop in patients with nonarteriosclerotic disease; therefore, it is important to create a foundation for an indirect bypass with MMA and DTA preservation during craniotomy. In 2 patients with nonarteriosclerotic disease, STA remained the primary bypass foundation; however, the technique resembled novel angiogenesis after encephaloduroarteriosynangiosis and not direct STA-MCA bypass. Therefore, final bypass structure might be affected by disease etiology.

Citation: Kanazawa R, et al. Long-Term Patency and Final Structure After Superficial Temporal Artery-Middle Cerebral Artery Bypass Surgery: A Retrospective Study. Long-Term Patency and Final Structure After Superficial Temporal Artery-Middle Cerebral Artery Bypass Surgery: A Retrospective Study. 2021; 146:e452-e460. doi: 10.1016/j.wneu.2020.10.114

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/33228957/
