PMID: 33234207
Title: Usefulness of Radial Artery as a Carotid Artery Patch in Simultaneous Carotid Endarterectomy and Coronary Artery Bypass Graft Operation with Complete Arterial Revascularization.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Serious coronary artery diseases including left main coronary artery disease, proximal left anterior descending artery disease, and three-vessel coronary artery disease with carotid artery stenosis are required simultaneous operations. By using complete arterial revascularization technique for coronary artery bypass graft operation, radial artery can be used safely as a patch material for carotid endarterectomy in combined surgery.
METHODS: Between 2016 and 2018, 14 patients who had serious coronary artery disease with the stenosis of unilateral carotid artery equal/over 70% were included in the study. Complete arterial revascularization was performed in all patients and radial artery was used as a patch material in carotid endarterectomy.
RESULTS: All patients were discharged without any complication and carotid artery colored Doppler ultrasound was performed to the patients in the 3rd months, 6th months, and first year of the operation. There was no restenosis detected.
CONCLUSION: In conclusion, radial artery is useable for carotid patch angioplasty in patients who underwent simultaneous carotid endarterectomy and coronary artery bypass graft operation with complete arterial revascularization. Further studies including a large number of patients are needed to examine the long-term patency of this graft.

Citation: Hazar A, et al. Usefulness of Radial Artery as a Carotid Artery Patch in Simultaneous Carotid Endarterectomy and Coronary Artery Bypass Graft Operation with Complete Arterial Revascularization. Usefulness of Radial Artery as a Carotid Artery Patch in Simultaneous Carotid Endarterectomy and Coronary Artery Bypass Graft Operation with Complete Arterial Revascularization. 2020; 23:E752-E755. doi: 10.1532/hsf.3231

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/33234207/
