PMID: 33234209
Title: Surgical Outcomes for Obstructive Total Anomalous Pulmonary Venous Return of the Non-Infracardiac Type Compared with the Infracardiac Type.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Infracardiac obstructive total anomalous pulmonary venous return (TAPVR) has a poor outcome following surgical correction. We compared the surgical outcomes of obstructive TAPVR between non-infracardiac and infracardiac types.
METHODS: Among 51 patients who underwent surgical repair for obstructive TAPVR, 23 with infracardiac type and 28 with non-infracardiac type were included in this investigation. The study compared the immediate postoperative courses in the intensive care unit and long-term mortality and pulmonary vein stenosis. The risk factors for long-term survival in obstructive TAPVR also were investigated.
RESULTS: The postoperative follow-up period was 79.8 ± 81.5 months. Immediate major operative complications were observed in 22 patients (43.1%); 10 patients (19.6%) died, and eight patients (15.7%) experienced pulmonary vein stenosis during the follow-up period. The Kaplan-Meier curve showed better cumulative survival in patients with infracardiac TAPVR (P = 0.308). The significant factors for survival after surgical repair of obstructive TAPVR did not include anatomical type but instead were postoperative course of ventilator care and lengths of intensive care unit and hospital stays.
CONCLUSION: Patients with non-infracardiac TAPVR with obstruction had a longer postoperative course and experienced more complications. Their survival rate was poorer, and postoperative pulmonary vein stenosis was more frequent in those patients compared with infracardiac TAPVR patients. However, a large-scale study is mandatory to gather more data and confirm our findings.

Citation: Na JY, et al. Surgical Outcomes for Obstructive Total Anomalous Pulmonary Venous Return of the Non-Infracardiac Type Compared with the Infracardiac Type. Surgical Outcomes for Obstructive Total Anomalous Pulmonary Venous Return of the Non-Infracardiac Type Compared with the Infracardiac Type. 2020; 23:E833-E836. doi: 10.1532/hsf.3217

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/33234209/
