PMID: 33236488
Title: From 2D to 4D Phase-Contrast MRI in the Neurovascular System: Will It Be a Quantum Jump or a Fancy Decoration?

Abstract: Considering the crosstalk between the flow and vessel wall, hemodynamic assessment of the neurovascular system may offer a well-integrated solution for both diagnosis and management by adding prognostic significance to the standard CT/MR angiography. 4D flow MRI or time-resolved 3D velocity-encoded phase-contrast MRI has long been promising for the hemodynamic evaluation of the great vessels, but challenged in clinical studies for assessing intracranial vessels with small diameter due to long scan times and low spatiotemporal resolution. Current accelerated MRI techniques, including parallel imaging with compressed sensing and radial k-space undersampling acquisitions, have decreased scan times dramatically while preserving spatial resolution. 4D flow MRI visualized and measured 3D complex flow of neurovascular diseases such as aneurysm, arteriovenous shunts, and atherosclerotic stenosis using parameters including flow volume, velocity vector, pressure gradients, and wall shear stress. In addition to the noninvasiveness of the phase contrast technique and retrospective flow measurement through the wanted windows of the analysis plane, 4D flow MRI has shown several advantages over Doppler ultrasound or computational fluid dynamics. The evaluation of the flow status and vessel wall can be performed simultaneously in the same imaging modality. This article is an overview of the recent advances in neurovascular 4D flow MRI techniques and their potential clinical applications in neurovascular disease. LEVEL OF EVIDENCE: 5 TECHNICAL EFFICACY STAGE: 3.

Citation: Youn SW and Lee J. From 2D to 4D Phase-Contrast MRI in the Neurovascular System: Will It Be a Quantum Jump or a Fancy Decoration?. From 2D to 4D Phase-Contrast MRI in the Neurovascular System: Will It Be a Quantum Jump or a Fancy Decoration?. 2022; 55:347-372. doi: 10.1002/jmri.27430

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/33236488/
