PMID: 33242214
Title: Predictors of outcome events and 6-year mortality after carotid endarterectomy and carotid stenting in patients with carotid artery stenosis.

Abstract: AIM: The aim of our study was to evaluate the results of CEA and CAS in patients with carotid artery stenosis, and their effect on long-term mortality and morbidity, as well as to identify predictors of long-term mortality in a single-centre observational study.
CLINICAL RATIONALE: While data on short-term morbidity and mortality after carotid endarterectomy (CEA) and carotid stenting (CAS) is robust, there is only a limited amount of literature on long-term mortality and its predictors five years-plus post these procedures.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: Consecutive patients with symptomatic and asymptomatic internal carotid artery stenosis treated with CEA or CAS in a single centre in eastern Slovakia between 2012 and 2014 were included. We recorded basic sociodemographic data, the presence of co-morbidities and periprocedural complications. Clinical and sonographic follow-up was performed three and 12 months after the procedures. Patient survival data and any stroke data was obtained at the end of a six-year follow-up.
RESULTS: We included 259 patients after CEA (mean age 67.4 ± 8.5, 64.5% men) and 321 after CAS (mean age 66.9 ± 8.4, 73.5% men). We did not identify a statistically significant difference in short-term or long-term mortality, survival times, or the presence of short-term or long-term complications between the CEA and CAS groups. Predictors of long-term mortality included age and diabetes mellitus in both cohorts. Repeated interventions were related to increased mortality only in the CAS cohort.
CONCLUSIONS: The results of our study show that long-term mortality does not differ between CEA and CAS.

Citation: Leško N, et al. Predictors of outcome events and 6-year mortality after carotid endarterectomy and carotid stenting in patients with carotid artery stenosis. Predictors of outcome events and 6-year mortality after carotid endarterectomy and carotid stenting in patients with carotid artery stenosis. 2021; 55:67-73. doi: 10.5603/PJNNS.a2020.0089

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/33242214/
