PMID: 33240388
Title: The Relationship between Depression Symptoms and Severity of Coronary Artery Disease in Patients Undergoing Angiography.

Abstract: Objective: Cardiovascular diseases are the main cause of mortality worldwide. Depression is one of the effective factors in the incidence of cardiovascular diseases like coronary artery stenosis. This study aimed to investigate the relationship between depression symptoms and severity of coronary artery disease (CAD) in patients scheduled for angiography. Method : This prospective, cross sectional research was conducted on as many as 401 patients scheduled to undergo angiography at Dr. Heshmat heart hospital as the referral center in the north of Iran in 2016. Before cardiac catheterization, patients' demographic information (age, gender, level of education, and place of residence) and patients' medical history (history of diabetes mellitus, hypertension, and family history of cardiac disease) were obtained. Also, Beck Depression Questionnaire 2 (BDI II) was completed by a psychologist before angiography. After collecting the data, SPSS v.21 and statistical tests such as Spearman correlation, and Mann-Whitney U regression were used to analyze the data. Results: After controlling for age, sex, and having history of diabetes mellitus, no relation was found between having depression symptoms and more frequency of vessel involvement (OR = 1.35, 95% CI: 0.92 to 1.98, P =0.130) or higher severity of CAD (OR = 1.47, 95% CI: 0.95 to 2.28, P = 0.087). The results were similar for the relation between severity of depression symptoms and CAD extent or CAD severity. Conclusion: The results of this study showed that in patients undergoing angiography, depression symptoms were not related to CAD severity and number of involved vessels. Depression was associated with angina, independently of CAD severity. Our study found no significant correlation between CAD severity and severity of depression. The reason may be that measuring depression at a single time point cannot accurately reveal the impact of this problem on the trend of atherosclerosis over time.

Citation: Salari A, et al. The Relationship between Depression Symptoms and Severity of Coronary Artery Disease in Patients Undergoing Angiography. The Relationship between Depression Symptoms and Severity of Coronary Artery Disease in Patients Undergoing Angiography. 2020; 15:370-376. doi: 10.18502/ijps.v15i4.4305

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/33240388/
