PMID: 33267720
Title: Associations between psychological factors and daily step count in patients with lumbar spinal stenosis.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Body mass index, pain, female sex, and age have been reported as predictors of physical activity in patients with lumbar spinal stenosis (LSS). However, no reports have examined the psychological factors associated with physical activity in people with LSS.
PURPOSE: To use psychological assessments to identify the factors associated with physical activity measured as daily step count in people with LSS.
METHODS: Seventy-one patients who received outpatient physical therapy were included. All patients completed the following scales at baseline: Zurich Claudication Questionnaire; self-paced walking test (SPWT); numerical rating scale of low back pain, leg pain, and leg numbness; Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale (HADS); Pain Catastrophizing Scale; Pain Anxiety Symptoms Scale (PASS-20); and Tampa Scale for Kinesiophobia. Physical activity was measured using a pedometer as the average number of daily steps.
RESULTS: Daily step count was significantly associated with age, number of stenoses, severity of stenosis at L3-L4, walking distance on the SPWT, PASS-20 total score, cognitive anxiety, escape/avoidance, fear, and HADS depression score (p &lt; .05). Multiple regression analysis showed that age, severity of stenosis at L3-L4, walking distance on the SPWT, and PASS-20 fear predicted daily step count (r2 = 0.414).
CONCLUSION: Older age, fewer stenoses, less severe stenosis at L3-L4, lower walking capacity, higher anxiety, and fear-avoidance beliefs about pain and depression are more closely associated with lower daily step count than are back and leg pain. Assessment and treatment of psychological factors might help to increase physical activity in patients with LSS.

Citation: Minetama M, et al. Associations between psychological factors and daily step count in patients with lumbar spinal stenosis. Associations between psychological factors and daily step count in patients with lumbar spinal stenosis. 2022; 38:1519-1527. doi: 10.1080/09593985.2020.1855685

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/33267720/
