PMID: 33271376
Title: Long-Term Outcomes Following Lumbar Microendoscopic Decompression for Lumbar Spinal Stenosis with and without Degenerative Spondylolisthesis: Minimum 10-Year Follow-Up.

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: To determine whether preoperative presence of degenerative lumbar spondylolisthesis (DS) worsens the minimum 10-year outcome of patients undergoing microendoscopic decompression (MED) for lumbar spinal stenosis (SS).
METHODS: Eighty patients undergoing MED were classified into 2 groups: DS group (34 SS with DS patients) and SS group (46 SS without DS patients). The degrees of improvement (DOIs) by the Japanese Orthopaedic Association Back Pain Evaluation Questionnaire (JOABPEQ) and intensities of improvement (IOIs) by Visual Analog Scale (VAS) at 120-159 (mean, 138.4) months after MED of the DS and SS groups were statistically compared. Patients with DS were classified into 2 groups based on the effectiveness by VAS or JOABPEQ: effective group (E group: IOI or DOI ≥20) and ineffective group (I group). All preoperative radiologic measurements were statistically compared between the E and I groups.
RESULTS: Significant decreases in low back pain, leg pain, and numbness, as measured by VAS, were noted at follow-up in the DS and SS groups. The effectiveness rates of pain-related disorders, lumbar spine dysfunction, and gait disturbance by JOABPEQ were almost equally high in the DS and SS groups. Statistical comparisons of the DOIs in all 5 functional scores and IOIs in low back pain, leg pain, and numbness showed no significant differences between the DS and SS groups. No significant differences were confirmed between the E and I groups concerning preoperative spondylolisthesis and instability.
CONCLUSIONS: Our study indicated that preoperative DS did not worsen the outcome of patients with SS undergoing MED.

Citation: Aihara T, et al. Long-Term Outcomes Following Lumbar Microendoscopic Decompression for Lumbar Spinal Stenosis with and without Degenerative Spondylolisthesis: Minimum 10-Year Follow-Up. Long-Term Outcomes Following Lumbar Microendoscopic Decompression for Lumbar Spinal Stenosis with and without Degenerative Spondylolisthesis: Minimum 10-Year Follow-Up. 2021; 146:e1219-e1225. doi: 10.1016/j.wneu.2020.11.131

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/33271376/
