PMID: 33276217
Title: Anterior cervical discectomy and fusion in the setting of kissing carotids: A technical report and literature review.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: The "kissing carotids" (KCS) phenomenon refers to bilateral retropharyngeal displacement of the internal carotid arteries (ICA). This anomalous anatomy can impose a significant surgical challenge to spine surgeons.
OBJECTIVE: In this report, we describe our approach for an anterior cervical discectomy and fusion in the setting of kissing carotids.
METHODS: We discuss our case, surgical technique, rationale, and outcome. Additionally, we conducted a systematic review of the literature.
CASE DESCRIPTION: An 82-year-old female presented to our service with progressive myelopathy. Cervical spinal imaging revealed a large disc herniation at C3-C4 and severe spinal canal stenosis. Vascular imaging showed anomalous ICAs bilaterally overlying the prevertebral fascia at the midline. The patient received aspirin preoperatively and underwent a multidisciplinary approach with neurosurgery and otolaryngology. A standard transcervical approach centered on the C5-C6 disc space, where the carotid arteries splayed most from midline, allowed for facilitated visualization and mobilization of the vessels. Prevertebral dissection was then performed rostrally to the C3-C4 disc space. The patient was put into burst suppression prior to retraction and underwent uncomplicated anterior discectomy and fusion.
CONCLUSIONS: KCS is a rare but critical presentation of extreme medial displacement of bilateral ICAs. Few cases have been reported in the spinal surgery literature. Knowledge of this rare variant is important to avoid iatrogenic injury and complications.

Citation: Mathkour M, et al. Anterior cervical discectomy and fusion in the setting of kissing carotids: A technical report and literature review. Anterior cervical discectomy and fusion in the setting of kissing carotids: A technical report and literature review. 2021; 200:106366. doi: 10.1016/j.clineuro.2020.106366

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/33276217/
