PMID: 33270156
Title: In vivo comparison of braided (Accero) and laser-cut intracranial stents (Acclino, Credo): evaluation of vessel responses at subacute and mid-term follow-up in a rabbit model.

Abstract: This study aimed to investigate in vivo two stent technologies, with particular emphasis on thrombogenicity and inflammatory vessel remodeling processes. The micro-stents tested in this study were developed for intracranial aneurysm treatment. In our study twelve, New Zealand white rabbits were divided into two groups: 18 laser-cut stents (LCS) and 18 braided stents (BS) were impanated without admiration of antiplatelet medication. Three stents were implanted into each animal in the common carotid artery, subclavian artery, and abdominal aorta. Digital subtraction angiography was performed before and after stent implantation and at follow-up for the visualization of occurring In-stent thromboembolism or stenosis. The Stents were explanted for histopathological examination at two different timepoints, after 3 and 28 days. Angiographically neither in-stent thrombosis nor stenosis for both groups was seen. There was a progressive increase in the vessel diameter, which was more pronounced for BS than for LCS. We detected a higher number of thrombi adherent to the foreign material on day 3 for BS. On day 3, the neointima was absent, whereas the complete formation observed was on day 28. There was no significant difference between both groups regarding the thickness of the neointima. The in vivo model of our study enabled the evaluation of blood and vessel reactions for two different stent technologies. Differences in vessel dimension and tissue around the stents were observed on day 28. Histological analysis on day 3 enabled the assessment of thrombotic reactions, representing an important complementary result in long-term studies.

Citation: Mühl-Benninghaus R, et al. In vivo comparison of braided (Accero) and laser-cut intracranial stents (Acclino, Credo): evaluation of vessel responses at subacute and mid-term follow-up in a rabbit model. In vivo comparison of braided (Accero) and laser-cut intracranial stents (Acclino, Credo): evaluation of vessel responses at subacute and mid-term follow-up in a rabbit model. 2020; 31:131. doi: 10.1007/s10856-020-06460-z

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/33270156/
