PMID: 33281067
Title: Potential therapeutic effects of ethyl pyruvate and N-acetyl cysteine in an experimental rat model of corrosive esophageal.

Abstract: BACKGROUND AND STUDY AIMS: Esophageal burns due to ingestion of corrosive substances are frequently seen in both children and adults. However, there is no standard method of treatment to prevent associated mortality and morbidity. Therefore, this study aimed to evaluate the effects of known antioxidants, namely N-acetyl cysteine and ethyl pyruvate, on esophageal damage due to sodium hydroxide-induced corrosive burns.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Thirty-five female rats were randomly assigned to five equal groups. Group 1 was the sham group, while Group 2 was the control group. Group 3 received N-acetyl cysteine, Group 4 received ethyl pyruvate, and Group 5 received both N-acetyl cysteine and ethyl pyruvate. Rats in the "burn" groups were gavage-fed with 0.2mL of 25% NaOH. All esophagi were extracted on day 4 for histopathological evaluation.
RESULTS: Total histopathological damage scores were evaluated at the end of the study. Groups 3 and 5 were significantly different from the control group in terms of total histopathological scores (p = 0.001), while no significant difference was seen with Group 4. Stenosis index results in groups 3 and 5 were similar to those seen with total histopathological scores (p = 0.004).
CONCLUSION: N-acetyl cysteine, alone or in combination with ethyl pyruvate, may be useful in the treatment of esophageal damage associated with corrosive substances and in achieving histopathological improvement in an experimental setting.

Citation: Tatli Ö, et al. Potential therapeutic effects of ethyl pyruvate and N-acetyl cysteine in an experimental rat model of corrosive esophageal. Potential therapeutic effects of ethyl pyruvate and N-acetyl cysteine in an experimental rat model of corrosive esophageal. 2020; 21:260-266. doi: 10.1016/j.ajg.2020.10.001

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/33281067/
