PMID: 33288438
Title: A Single-Center Study Comparison of Two Different Male-to-Female Penile Skin Inversion Vaginoplasty Techniques and Their 3.5-Year Outcomes.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Vaginoplasty is a crucial part of genital gender-affirming surgery with the number of trans women undergoing this intervention steadily, however, up to date, there is still no standardized vaginoplasty technique.
AIM: This retrospective single-center study compares single-stage vs two-stage penile skin inversion vaginoplasty techniques and their long-term outcomes.
METHODS: Medical records of 63 consecutive patients who underwent single-stage vaginoplasty, as described by Dr Preecha Tiewtranon, and 62 consecutive patients who underwent 2-stage vaginoplasty were reviewed.
RESULTS: The mean postoperative hospital stay was 7 days for patients who underwent single-stage vaginoplasty vs 16 days for patients who underwent 2-stage vaginoplasty. Neovaginal depth proved constant in patients who underwent single-stage vaginoplasty, whereas a loss of more than 30% was observed in patients who underwent 2-stage vaginoplasty during the first postoperative year. Early complications were more common than late-onset complications in both groups. The most common complication in the single-stage group was wound dehiscence (4.8%). There were significantly more complications in 2-stage collective, among which wound dehiscence (33.9%), unsatisfactory cosmetic outcome (25.8%), and urethral stenosis (14.5%) were the most common. In the single-stage cohort, 4 (6.4%) patients needed one revision surgery, whereas 35 (56.5%) patients in the 2-stage cohort necessitated one or more reoperations with up to 10 quaternary revisions. All patients reported to have sensitivity to neoclitoris in the single-stage group, whereas 3 (4.8%) patients in the 2-stage group were deprived of it because of neoclitoral necrosis.
CLINICAL IMPLICATIONS: Optimizing a vaginoplasty surgical technique and its postoperative protocol.
STRENGTHS & LIMITATIONS: The present retrospective study with a mean follow-up of more than 3.5 years offers the first ever comparison of 2 different PSI vaginoplasty surgical techniques performed in the same center.
CONCLUSION: Significantly lower complication and revision rates, shorter recovery time, and superior esthetic and functional outcomes were observed in the single-stage than in the two-stage penile skin inversion vaginoplasty surgical technique. Fakin RM, Giovanoli P. A Single-Center Study Comparison of Two Different Male-to-Female Penile Skin Inversion Vaginoplasty Techniques and Their 3.5-Year Outcomes. J Sex Med 2021;18:391-399.

Citation: Fakin RM and Giovanoli P. A Single-Center Study Comparison of Two Different Male-to-Female Penile Skin Inversion Vaginoplasty Techniques and Their 3.5-Year Outcomes. A Single-Center Study Comparison of Two Different Male-to-Female Penile Skin Inversion Vaginoplasty Techniques and Their 3.5-Year Outcomes. 2021; 18:391-399. doi: 10.1016/j.jsxm.2020.09.014

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/33288438/
