PMID: 33282918
Title: Elabela: A Novel Biomarker for Right Ventricular Pressure Overload in Children With Pulmonary Stenosis or Pulmonary Atresia With Intact Ventricular Septum.

Abstract: Background: Assessing right ventricular overload in children is challenging. We conducted this study involving children with pulmonary valvular stenosis (PS) or pulmonary atresia with intact ventricular septum (PA/IVS) to evaluate the potential of a new endogenous ligand of apelin receptor, Elabela (ELA), as a potential biomarker for right heart overload. Methods: In this prospective cohort study, a total of 118 congenital heart diseases patients with right ventricle outflow tract obstruction were recruited from 2018 to 2019. Among them, 44 isolated PS and 7 PA/IVS patients were selected. Their venous blood was collected, and all patients underwent an echocardiographic examination. Among them, post-operative blood was collected from 24 patients with PS after percutaneous balloon pulmonary valvuloplasty. The plasma ELA concentration was measured using enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. Results: The ELA was significantly associated with the peak transvalvular pulmonary gradient (r = -0.62; p = 0.02), thus reflecting the severity of PS or PA/IVS. The ELA significantly increased at 3 days after intervention, when mechanical obstruction of the right outflow tract was relieved. Based on the receiver-operator characteristic curve results, ELA could be a risk factor for duct dependence in patients with critical PS or PA/IVS who are younger than 6 months (AUC: 0.82). Conclusion: ELA concentration and severity of PS or PA/IVS had a significant negative correlation, indicating that ELA might be a novel biomarker for right ventricular afterload and reflect the immediate pressure changes in the right heart. Furthermore, ELA could predict duct-dependency in PS and PA/IVS patients, as valuable as classical echocardiographic indexes.

Citation: Wang J, et al. Elabela: A Novel Biomarker for Right Ventricular Pressure Overload in Children With Pulmonary Stenosis or Pulmonary Atresia With Intact Ventricular Septum. Elabela: A Novel Biomarker for Right Ventricular Pressure Overload in Children With Pulmonary Stenosis or Pulmonary Atresia With Intact Ventricular Septum. 2020; 7:581848. doi: 10.3389/fcvm.2020.581848

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/33282918/
