PMID: 33295239
Title: Management for lumbar spinal stenosis: Protocol for a network meta-analysis and systematic review.

Abstract: INTRODUCTION: Lumbar spinal stenosis (LSS) is caused by structural changes of the spine, which lead to several severe symptoms, including back pain, leg pain, numbness and tingling in the legs, as well as reduced physical function. However, there is little evidence suggesting whether a patient with LSS should be treated with surgery. If surgery is recommended, which type of surgery benefits the patient most? To answer these questions, we will conduct a network meta-analysis and a systematic review to compare surgical and nonsurgical interventions in terms of efficacy as well as safety in adult patients with LSS.
METHODS AND ANALYSIS: We will search the PubMed, Cochrane library, and EMBASE databases for articles published prior to October 10, 2019. We will search for randomized controlled trials assessing surgical and nonsurgical interventions for adult patients with degenerative LSS without any language restrictions. The primary outcome measures will be pain and disability. The secondary outcomes will include adverse events (number of events or number of people with each type of adverse event), reoperations, complications, blood loss and operation time. We will obtain the full texts of the potentially relevant studies and independently assess them. The quality of evidence will be evaluated according to the Grading of Recommendations Assessment, Development and Evaluation framework. A random-effects network meta-analysis will be performed to analyze all the evidence under the frequentist framework, and the ranking results will be presented. We will generate plots depicting the network geometry using Stata. The network meta-analysis will be performed according to the Bayesian framework. Ethics and dissemination Ethics approval is not required. The research will be published in a peer-reviewed journal.

Citation: Wei FL, et al. Management for lumbar spinal stenosis: Protocol for a network meta-analysis and systematic review. Management for lumbar spinal stenosis: Protocol for a network meta-analysis and systematic review. 2020; 28:2309499020975212. doi: 10.1177/2309499020975212

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/33295239/
