PMID: 33299782
Title: Effect of Coronary Artery Bifurcation Angle on Atherosclerotic Lesion Localization Distance to the Bifurcation Site.

Abstract: OBJECTIVES: Although percutaneous coronary interventions become a common treatment modality for coronary artery diseases, lesion localization make these procedures more complex. As the lesion localizes near to the bifurcation site, more complex PCI procedures, overqualified equipments are needed and complication risk increases. Previous studies have demonstrated the strong correlation between wide angulation and significant coronary stenosis. However, a paucity of data exists about the association between bifurcation angle and lesion localization distance. In this study we analysed the effect of coronary bifurcation angle and left main coronary artery length on the atherosclerotic lesion localization.
METHODS: Patients, who underwent coronary angiography between 01.01.2017- 31.12.2019 were scanned. Patients having atherosclerotic lesions causing more than 50% luminal narrowing and Medina classification score (0,0,0) were evaluated. After exclusion, 467 patients were included. 5 bifurcation subgroups (LAD-CX, LAD-Dx, CX-OM, RCA-RV, RPD-RPL) were formed. Distance of lesion to the bifurcation site, bifurcation angle and left main coronary artery length were analysed by 2 experienced cardiologists with invasive quantitaive coronary angiography (QCA) by using "extreme angio and cardiac pacs" software system.
RESULTS: There was a strong inverse correlation between bifurcation angle and lesion localization distance to the bifurcation site (r = -0.706; p < 0.0001). There was a nonsignificant negative correlation between Left-main coronary artery length and lesion localization. Regression analysis revealed that bifurcation angle is an independent risk factor for predicting the localization of an atheroslerotic lesion in 5 mm length from the point of bifurcation site (β = -0.074, p < 0.0001). A cut-off value of 80.5° coronary bifurcation angle was found to have 84.1% sensitivity and 81.3% specificity in prediction of atherosclerotic lesion localization in 5 mm length from the point of bifurcation site.
CONCLUSION: In this study we showed that as the bifurcation angle increases, atherosclerotic lesions tend to approach to the bifurcation site. Since invertentions encompassing bifurcation sites are more complex, lesions with increased angulation may need extra care as they are more likely to present with further complications. Furthermore, bifurcation angle is an independent risk factor for lesion localization.

Citation: Ziyrek M, et al. Effect of Coronary Artery Bifurcation Angle on Atherosclerotic Lesion Localization Distance to the Bifurcation Site. Effect of Coronary Artery Bifurcation Angle on Atherosclerotic Lesion Localization Distance to the Bifurcation Site. 2020; 32:399-407. doi: 10.37616/2212-5043.1071

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/33299782/
