PMID: 33293465
Title: Echocardiographic RV-E/e' for predicting right atrial pressure: a review.

Abstract: Right atrial pressure (RAP) is a key cardiac parameter of diagnostic and prognostic significance, yet current two-dimensional echocardiographic methods are inadequate for the accurate estimation of this haemodynamic marker. Right-heart trans-tricuspid Doppler and tissue Doppler echocardiographic techniques can be combined to calculate the right ventricular (RV) E/e' ratio - a reflection of RV filling pressure which is a surrogate of RAP. A systematic search was undertaken which found seventeen articles that compared invasively measured RAP with RV-E/e' estimated RAP. Results commonly concerned pulmonary hypertension or advanced heart failure/transplantation populations. Reported receiver operating characteristic analyses showed reasonable diagnostic ability of RV-E/e' for estimating RAP in patients with coronary artery disease and RV systolic dysfunction. The diagnostic ability of RV-E/e' was generally poor in studies of paediatrics, heart failure and mitral stenosis, whilst results were equivocal in other diseases. Bland-Altman analyses showed good accuracy but poor precision of RV-E/e' for estimating RAP, but were limited by only being reported in seven out of seventeen articles. This suggests that RV-E/e' may be useful at a population level but not at an individual level for clinical decision making. Very little evidence was found about how atrial fibrillation may affect the estimation of RAP from RV-E/e', nor about the independent prognostic ability of RV-E/e' . Recommended areas for future research concerning RV-E/e' include; non-sinus rhythm, valvular heart disease, short and long term prognostic ability, and validation over a wide range of RAP.

Citation: Fletcher AJ, et al. Echocardiographic RV-E/e' for predicting right atrial pressure: a review. Echocardiographic RV-E/e' for predicting right atrial pressure: a review. 2020; 7:R11-R20. doi: 10.1530/ERP-19-0057

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/33293465/
