PMID: 33302311
Title: Deep Learning CT Image Reconstruction in Clinical Practice.

Abstract: BACKGROUND:  Computed tomography (CT) is a central modality in modern radiology contributing to diagnostic medicine in almost every medical subspecialty, but particularly in emergency services. To solve the inverse problem of reconstructing anatomical slice images from the raw output the scanner measures, several methods have been developed, with filtered back projection (FBP) and iterative reconstruction (IR) subsequently providing criterion standards. Currently there are new approaches to reconstruction in the field of artificial intelligence utilizing the upcoming possibilities of machine learning (ML), or more specifically, deep learning (DL).
METHOD:  This review covers the principles of present CT image reconstruction as well as the basic concepts of DL and its implementation in reconstruction. Subsequently commercially available algorithms and current limitations are being discussed.
RESULTS AND CONCLUSION:  DL is an ML method that utilizes a trained artificial neural network to solve specific problems. Currently two vendors are providing DL image reconstruction algorithms for the clinical routine. For these algorithms, a decrease in image noise and an increase in overall image quality that could potentially facilitate the diagnostic confidence in lesion conspicuity or may translate to dose reduction for given clinical tasks have been shown. One study showed equal diagnostic accuracy in the detection of coronary artery stenosis for DL reconstructed images compared to IR at higher image quality levels. Consequently, a lot more research is necessary and should aim at diagnostic superiority in the clinical context covering a broadness of pathologies to demonstrate the reliability of such DL approaches.
KEY POINTS:   · Following iterative reconstruction, there is a new approach to CT image reconstruction in the clinical routine using deep learning (DL) as a method of artificial intelligence.. · DL image reconstruction algorithms decrease image noise, improve image quality, and have potential to reduce radiation dose.. · Diagnostic superiority in the clinical context should be demonstrated in future trials..
CITATION FORMAT: · Arndt C, Güttler F, Heinrich A et al. Deep Learning CT Image Reconstruction in Clinical Practice. Fortschr Röntgenstr 2021; 193: 252 - 261.

Citation: Arndt C, et al. Deep Learning CT Image Reconstruction in Clinical Practice. Deep Learning CT Image Reconstruction in Clinical Practice. 2021; 193:252-261. doi: 10.1055/a-1248-2556

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/33302311/
