PMID: 33307817
Title: Numerical study of hemodynamics in a complete coronary bypass with venous and arterial grafts and different degrees of stenosis.

Abstract: Cardiovascular diseases are among the leading causes of death in the world. The coronary blockage is one of most common types of these diseases that in the majority of cases has been treated by bypass surgery. In the bypass surgery, a graft is implemented to alter the blocked coronary and allow the blood supply process. The hemodynamic characteristics of the bypass strongly depend on the geometry and mechanical properties of the graft. In the present study, the fluid-structure interaction (FSI) analysis is conducted to investigate the bypass performance for a thoracic artery as well as a saphenous vein graft. Blood flow introduces a pressure on the walls of the graft which behaves as a hyperelastic material. A complete coronary bypass with stenosis degrees of 70% and 100% is modeled. To consider the nonlinear stress-strain behavior of the grafts, a five parameter Mooney-Rivlin hyperplastic model is implemented for the structural analysis and blood is assumed to behave as a Newtonian fluid. The simulations are performed for a structured grid to solve the governing equations using finite element method (FEM). The results show that wall shear stress (WSS) for saphenous vein is larger than that of thoracic artery while the total deformation of the thoracic artery is larger compared to the saphenous vein. Also, for the venous grafts or lower stenosis degree, the oscillatory shear index (OSI) is higher at both left and right anastomoses meaning that venous grafts as well as lower degree of stenosis are more critical in terms of restenosis.

Citation: Alizadehghobadi S, et al. Numerical study of hemodynamics in a complete coronary bypass with venous and arterial grafts and different degrees of stenosis. Numerical study of hemodynamics in a complete coronary bypass with venous and arterial grafts and different degrees of stenosis. 2021; 24:883-896. doi: 10.1080/10255842.2020.1857744

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/33307817/
