PMID: 33301257
Title: [Surgical treatment of internal carotid artery kinking following fibromuscular dysplasia].

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the results of surgical treatment of internal carotid artery kinking following fibromuscular dysplasia.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: There were 32 patients who underwent surgical treatment of internal carotid artery kinking following fibromuscular dysplasia. Structural changes of carotid artery wall were analyzed using immunohistochemical survey. Considering destructive changes revealed, we divided all patients into 2 groups in order to assess long-term postoperative outcomes: 1 - ICA resection followed by anastomosis in end-to-end fashion; 2 - ICA replacement. Postoperative analysis included incidence of stroke, thrombosis and deformities of anastomosis zone, regression of cerebrovascular insufficiency.
RESULTS: The main «phenotype» of arterial wall in patients with ICA kinking following fibromuscular dysplasia is a large number of smooth muscle cells releasing matrix matelloproteinases-2 and -9 and low level of their tissue inhibitor type 1. Postoperative deformities are more common within a year after surgery. Maximum incidence is observed after 12 months. Both ICA resection and replacement are followed by similar incidence of deformity later. No severe deformities were diagnosed. Resection of ICA kinking on the background of fibromuscular dysplasia is followed by comparable results with ICA replacement regarding the incidence stroke, thrombosis and regression of cerebrovascular insufficiency.
CONCLUSION: Despite degradation of extracellular matrix, destruction of elastic fibers and their fragmentation, no significant deformities are observed in long-term postoperative period in patients with ICA kinking and fibromuscular dysplasia.

Citation: Gavrilenko AV, et al. [Surgical treatment of internal carotid artery kinking following fibromuscular dysplasia]. [Surgical treatment of internal carotid artery kinking following fibromuscular dysplasia]. 2020; (unknown volume):70-75. doi: 10.17116/hirurgia202012170

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/33301257/
