PMID: 33309904
Title: Experimental analysis of aspect ratio in iliac vein stenosis.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Veins are thin-walled tubes. Their lumen is roughly circular with an aspect ratio close to 1:1 under physiologic pressures. When they collapse owing to decreased internal pressure or external compression, the aspect ratio changes. The vertical diameter is usually diminished more than the transverse, with a considerable decrease in the lumen area. The recent emergence of stent correction of many venous compression syndromes, particularly iliac vein stenosis, has brought attention to the importance of the aspect ratio, quite apart from an overall decrease in caliber. The iliac vein pressure is influenced not only by stenosis, but also intra-abdominal pressure, right atrial pressure, and collaterals. We investigated the impact of aspect ratio in an experimental model incorporating these factors.
METHODS: Inflow was provided from a header tank at 25 mm Hg pressure into a Penrose tubing enclosed in a polyethylene cylinder pressurized (Starling pressure) to simulate intra-abdominal pressures of 5 and 10 mm Hg. The Penrose drained into an outflow tank with a pressure of 7 mm Hg, simulating right atrial pressure. Stenosis was simulated with a series of three-dimensional, printed plastic nozzles with caliber areas of 50, 100, and 200 mm2 and varying in aspect ratios of 1:1 to 1:4. The flow and pressure in this system was monitored with the use of overflow collaterals in some experiments.
RESULTS: Free flow from the header tank through the Penrose (zero Starling pressure) with a 200 mm2 circle nozzle into the outflow tank with zero pressure resulted in flow pressure of approximately 1.5 mm Hg. Using nozzles of a smaller caliber or an increased aspect ratio resulted in an increase of flow pressures of up to approximately 3.7 mm Hg. Flow into an outflow tank of 7 mm Hg simulating right atrial pressure further increased flow pressures by approximately 7 mm Hg. The addition of Starling pressures of 5 and 10 mm Hg simulating abdominal pressure increased flow pressure even further to the 10 to 17 mm Hg range. When the Starling pressure was dominant, the additional contribution of nozzle caliber stenosis or aspect ratio reduction to the overall flow pressure ranged from 2 to 6 mm Hg. Collateral overflow varied inversely with collateral resistance. Some experiments yielded an anomalous flow/pressure phenomena known to occur in collapsible tube flows.
CONCLUSIONS: A decrease in the caliber or the aspect ratio of iliac vein stenosis was among several other factors that generate peripheral venous hypertension in an experimental model. Increased intra-abdominal pressure is a major influence that amplifies the pressure effects of aspect ratio or caliber reduction.

Citation: Raju S and Kuykendall R. Experimental analysis of aspect ratio in iliac vein stenosis. Experimental analysis of aspect ratio in iliac vein stenosis. 2021; 9:1041-1050.e1. doi: 10.1016/j.jvsv.2020.11.024

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/33309904/
