PMID: 33300307
Title: Cellular fibronectin promotes deep vein thrombosis in diet-induced obese mice.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Overweight and obesity are significant risk factors for deep vein thrombosis (DVT). Cellular fibronectin containing extra domain A (Fn-EDA), an endogenous ligand for toll-like-receptor 4 (TLR4), contributes to thrombo-inflammation. The role of Fn-EDA in the modulation of DVT is not elucidated yet.
OBJECTIVE: To determine whether Fn-EDA promotes DVT in the context of diet-induced obesity.
METHODS: Wild-type (WT) and Fn-EDA-deficient mice were either fed control or high-fat (HF) diet for 12 weeks. DVT was induced by inferior vena cava (IVC) stenosis and evaluated after 48 hours. Cellular Fn-EDA levels in the plasma of venous thromboembolism (VTE) patients were measured by sandwich ELISA.
RESULTS: We found that cellular Fn-EDA levels were significantly elevated in VTE patients' plasma and positively correlated with body mass index. HF diet-fed WT mice exhibited increased DVT susceptibility compared with control diet-fed WT mice. In contrast, HF diet-fed Fn-EDA-deficient mice exhibited significantly reduced thrombus weight and decreased incidence (%) of DVT compared with HF diet-fed WT mice concomitant with reduced neutrophil content and citrullinated histone H3-positive cells (a marker of NETosis) in IVC thrombus. Exogenous cellular Fn-EDA potentiated NETosis in neutrophils stimulated with thrombin-activated platelets via TLR4. Genetic deletion of TLR4 in Fn-EDA+ mice (constitutively express Fn-EDA in plasma and tissues), but not in Fn-EDA-deficient mice, reduced DVT compared with respective controls.
CONCLUSION: These results demonstrate a previously unknown role of Fn-EDA in the DVT exacerbation, which may be an essential mechanism promoting DVT in the setting of diet-induced obesity.

Citation: Dhanesha N, et al. Cellular fibronectin promotes deep vein thrombosis in diet-induced obese mice. Cellular fibronectin promotes deep vein thrombosis in diet-induced obese mice. 2021; 19:814-821. doi: 10.1111/jth.15206

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/33300307/
