PMID: 33319833
Title: Distinct systemic cytokine networks in symptomatic and asymptomatic carotid stenosis.

Abstract: Inflammatory processes are crucial in atherosclerosis and atherothrombosis. This study aimed to identify a cytokine-pattern that is associated with plaque-vulnerability or symptomatic state in comprehensively investigated patients with symptomatic (sCS) and asymptomatic carotid stenosis (aCS). Twenty-two patients with sCS and twenty-four patients with aCS undergoing carotid endarterectomy (CEA) were considered. A cytokine-panel was measured in plasma-specimens prior to surgery and at a 90 day follow-up. Doppler-ultrasound detecting microembolic signals (MES) in the ipsilateral middle cerebral artery was performed. Carotid plaques were analysed regarding histopathological criteria of plaque-vulnerability and presence of chemokine receptor CXCR4. Correction for multiple comparisons and logistic regression analysis adjusting for vascular risk factors, grade of stenosis, antithrombotic and statin pretreatment were applied. In sCS-patients higher plasma-levels of Fractalkine (CX<sub>3</sub>CL1), IFN-α2, IL-1β, IL-2, IL-3, IL-7 were found compared to aCS-patients. CXCR4-expression on inflammatory cells was more evident in sCS- compared to aCS-plaques and was associated with vulnerability-criteria. In contrast, plasma-cytokine-levels were not related to CXCR4-expression or other vulnerability-criteria or MES. However, in both groups distinct inter-cytokine correlation patterns, which persisted at follow-up and were more pronounced in the sCS-group could be detected. In conclusion, we identified a distinct cytokine/chemokine-network in sCS-patients with elevated and closely correlated mediators of diverse functions.

Citation: Stauss RD, et al. Distinct systemic cytokine networks in symptomatic and asymptomatic carotid stenosis. Distinct systemic cytokine networks in symptomatic and asymptomatic carotid stenosis. 2020; 10:21963. doi: 10.1038/s41598-020-78941-8

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/33319833/
