PMID: 33327763
Title: Redundant Nerve Roots of the Cauda Equina, MRI Findings and Postoperative Clinical Outcome: Emphasizing an Overlooked Entity.

Abstract: STUDY DESIGN: Retrospective study.
OBJECTIVE: To describe the MRI findings of RNRs in patients with low back pain, and observe the imaging findings and the clinical outcome post decompression surgery.
METHODS: The lumbar spine MRI of 202 patients (122 females) with proven RNRs were retrospectively reviewed. The morphology and the location of the RNRs in relation to the level of stenosis were described. The level(s), grade and cause of lumbar canal stenosis were recorded. The persistence of symptoms and the imaging findings on follow up post decompression surgery were recorded. The imaging findings were correlated among each other and with patients' demographics.
RESULTS: Two distinctive morphological appearance of the RNRs were noted: loop (56.4%), and serpentine-shaped. In the majority of the cases the RNRs were located above the level of stenosis (79.7%). Eighteen patients underwent decompression surgery, only 4 patients remained symptomatic post decompression surgery. The RNRs changed in shape and location after decompression surgery. Age was a strong predictor value in the location of the RNRs. There was no correlation between the shape and location of the RNRs, or with the gender of the patients.
CONCLUSION: RNRs is not an uncommon finding on lumbar spine MRI with lumbar canal stenosis. Its importance remains a controversy. A common language between the radiologists and the clinicians is mandatory to aid in the management planning.

Citation: Rousan LA, et al. Redundant Nerve Roots of the Cauda Equina, MRI Findings and Postoperative Clinical Outcome: Emphasizing an Overlooked Entity. Redundant Nerve Roots of the Cauda Equina, MRI Findings and Postoperative Clinical Outcome: Emphasizing an Overlooked Entity. 2022; 12:392-398. doi: 10.1177/2192568220975378

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/33327763/
