PMID: 33326967
Title: Sodium Thiosulfate Ameliorates Renovascular Hypertension-Induced Renal Dysfunction and Injury in Rats.

Abstract: BACKGROUND/AIMS: Arterial stenosis activates the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system subsequently resulting in renovascular hypertension (RVHT) and renal oxidative injury. We explored the effect of sodium thiosulfate (STS, Na2S2O3), a developed antioxidant in clinical trial, on RVHT-induced hypertension and renal oxidative injury in rats.
METHODS: We induced RVHT in male Wistar rats with bilaterally partial ligation of renal arteries in the 2-kidney 2-clip model. We evaluated the STS effect on RVHT-induced oxidative injury and apoptosis by a chemiluminescence amplification method, Western blot, and immunohistochemistry.
RESULTS: We found STS displayed a dose-dependent antioxidant H2O2 activity and adapted the maximal scavenging H2O2 activity of STS at the dosage of 0.1 g/kg intraperitoneally 3 times/week for 4 weeks in RVHT rats. RVHT induced a significant elevation of arterial blood pressure, blood reactive oxygen species amount, neutrophil infiltration, 4-HNE and NADPH oxidase gp91 expression, Bax/Bcl-2/poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase (PARP)-mediated apoptosis formation, blue Masson-stained fibrosis, and urinary protein level. STS treatment significantly reduced hypertension, oxidative stress, neutrophil infiltration, fibrosis, and Bax/Bcl-2/PARP-mediated apoptosis formation and depressed the urinary protein level in the RVHT models.
CONCLUSION: Our results suggest that STS treatment could ameliorate RVHT hypertension and renal oxidative injury through antioxidant, antifibrotic, and antiapoptotic mechanisms.

Citation: Chou PL, et al. Sodium Thiosulfate Ameliorates Renovascular Hypertension-Induced Renal Dysfunction and Injury in Rats. Sodium Thiosulfate Ameliorates Renovascular Hypertension-Induced Renal Dysfunction and Injury in Rats. 2021; 46:41-52. doi: 10.1159/000510047

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/33326967/
