PMID: 33330668
Title: Study on the Relationship Between Orthostatic Hypotension and Heart Rate Variability, Pulse Wave Velocity Index, and Frailty Index in the Elderly: A Retrospective Observational Study.

Abstract: Background: Orthostatic hypotension (OH) is a common disease of the elderly. It is generally believed that the pathogenesis of OH is related to the impairment of autonomic nerve function and the decreased vascular capacity regulation. This study aims to explore the relationship between OH and heart rate variability (HRV) parameters, which reflects autonomic nerve function; ankle-brachial pressure index (ABI), which reflects the degree of vascular stenosis; pulse wave velocity (PWV) index, which reflects vascular stiffness; and frailty index (FI), which reflects the overall health status of the elderly. Methods: From January to September 2018, 24-h HOLTER monitoring, PWV, and ABI were performed in 108 elderly patients with OH and 64 elderly patients who underwent physical examination in our hospital. Analysis software was used to record the subject's standard deviation of the cardiac cycle (SDNN), the standard deviation of the 5-min average cardiac cycle (SDANN), the square root of the average square sum of consecutive n-interval differences (rMSSD), the percentage of the number of adjacent cardiac interval differences &gt;50 ms (pNN50), low frequency (LF), high frequency (HF), very low frequency (VLF), and low frequency/high frequency ratio (LF/HF). Then, FI was evaluated qualitatively and quantitatively in the form of a scale. Results: There was no statistical difference between the two groups on the basis of age, sex, body mass index (BMI), low-density lipoprotein (LDL), resting heart rate, blood pressure, fasting blood glucose, long-term medication, etc. There were significant differences in PWV, SDNN, LF, VLF, and LF/HF between the two groups (P &lt; 0.05). The risk factor of OH in the qualitative (P = 0.04) and quantitative (P = 0.007) index FI was higher in the OH group than in the control group. The risk factors of OH were PWV, SDNN, VLF, LF/HF, and FI, where FI was positively correlated and LF/HF was negatively correlated. Conclusions: The pathogenesis of OH is related to vascular stiffness, imbalance of autonomic nerve regulation, and its comprehensive health status in the elderly. However, arteriosclerosis has not been confirmed as an independent risk factor. Clinical Trial Registration: Retrospectively registered, http://www.chictr.org.cn.

Citation: Li L, et al. Study on the Relationship Between Orthostatic Hypotension and Heart Rate Variability, Pulse Wave Velocity Index, and Frailty Index in the Elderly: A Retrospective Observational Study. Study on the Relationship Between Orthostatic Hypotension and Heart Rate Variability, Pulse Wave Velocity Index, and Frailty Index in the Elderly: A Retrospective Observational Study. 2020; 7:603957. doi: 10.3389/fcvm.2020.603957

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/33330668/
