PMID: 33338827
Title: C2 partial transpedicular screw technique for atlantoaxial dislocation with high-riding vertebral artery: A technique note with case series.

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: Although the C2 pedicle screw (C2PS) is currently the most biomechanically robust option for C2 fixation, the high-riding vertebral artery (HRVA) precludes safe C2PS placement. However, unintentional partial C2 pedicle perforation and vertebral foramen violation due to C2PS placement without neurovascular complications occurred frequently in clinic. Therefore, we have attempted to apply C2 partial transpedicular screw (C2PTS) in patients with HRVA with satisfactory preliminary outcomes. The aim of the present study is to introduce the C2PTS technique and report the preliminary radiological and clinical outcomes of application of C2PTS.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: The data of 15 patients with atlantoaxial dislocation underwent atlantoaxial arthrodesis with posterior screw-rod construct were retrospectively reviewed. All patients had unilateral or bilateral HRVA that precluded safe C2PS placement and C2PTS was used as an alternative. In this technique, a Penfield dissector was used to properly mobilize the HRVA inferiorly to preclude vertebral artery injury and pave the way for C2PTS placement. The C2PTS travelled under the superior border of the isthmus and toward the ipsilateral atlantoaxial articulation. The implant position and atlantoaxial reduction were evaluated using computed tomography (CT) scans and vertebral artery (VA) was assessed using CT angiography postoperatively.
RESULTS: Satisfactory C2PTS placement and atlantoaxial reduction were achieved in all patients. Postoperatively, no vertebral artery injury and implant failure were observed, and bone fusion was achieved in all the patients. Additionally, there were no VA occlusion or stenosis due to screws demonstrated on VA CT angiography.
CONCLUSION: C2PTS can achieve three-column fixation of axis and is an efficient alternative to C2PS which is prohibited due to HRVA; also, gently mobilizing the HRVA inferiorly is mandatory to prevent vertebral artery injury during C2PTS placement.

Citation: Guo Q, et al. C2 partial transpedicular screw technique for atlantoaxial dislocation with high-riding vertebral artery: A technique note with case series. C2 partial transpedicular screw technique for atlantoaxial dislocation with high-riding vertebral artery: A technique note with case series. 2021; 200:106403. doi: 10.1016/j.clineuro.2020.106403

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/33338827/
