PMID: 33341457
Title: Endoscopic third ventriculostomy for myelomeningocele-related hydrocephalus after shunt failure: Long-term outcome in a series of 8 patients.

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: Endoscopic third ventriculostomy (ETV) has now become an accepted mode of hydrocephalus treatment. However, the long-term effects of ETV for myelomeningocele-related hydrocephalus (MMC-rH) after shunt malfunction remains unclear. We aimed to assess the long-term outcome and the factors associated with the success of ETV for MMC-rH after shunt malfunction.
METHODS: We performed a retrospective analysis of data collected between 2001 and 2018 from 8 patients with MMC-rH after shunt malfunction, who underwent ETV at the Kurume University Hospital and were followed up for at least 5 years. We extracted data regarding age, sex, clinical symptoms, radiological imaging, intraoperative findings, and outcomes.
RESULTS: The overall success rate was 62.5% and their ETV success score is 67.5. The most frequent clinical symptom was intracranial hypertension symptoms (100 %), followed by Chiari type II symptoms (87.5 %). In preoperative MRI scans, we observed aqueduct stenosis in 6 cases, Chiari type II malformations in 7 cases, four patients had a narrow prepontine cistern, five patients had an absent septum pellucidum, and three presented with stenosis of the foramen of Monro. All cases in the failure group had the above 5 symptoms. Based on intraoperative findings, a thick third ventricle floor was found in 5 patients. Two patients had a thin hypothalamic adhesion in the third ventricle floor. They had no major complications.
CONCLUSION: ETV for MMC-rH after shunt malfunction is an effective treatment option. However, we recommend that a neurosurgeon with extensive experience in neuroendoscopy perform ETV because MMC patients more often had intraventricular malformations than those with other hydrocephalus diseases.

Citation: Takeshige N, et al. Endoscopic third ventriculostomy for myelomeningocele-related hydrocephalus after shunt failure: Long-term outcome in a series of 8 patients. Endoscopic third ventriculostomy for myelomeningocele-related hydrocephalus after shunt failure: Long-term outcome in a series of 8 patients. 2021; 201:106406. doi: 10.1016/j.clineuro.2020.106406

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/33341457/
