PMID: 33342129
Title: [Application of rigid curved laryngoscope in the examination of hypopharynx and the treatment of early hypopharyngeal cancer].

Abstract: Objective: To evaluate the efficacy of curved suspension laryngoscope assistant transoral surgery (CLATOS) in the examination of hypopharynx, and diagnosis and surgery of early hypopharyngeal carcinoma. Methods: Thirty-four patients who underwent detailed examination for lower part of hypopharynx and surgery for early hypopharyngeal carcinoma with CLATOS technique in the Second Affiliated Hospital of Harbin Medical University from January 2019 to January 2020 were analyzed retrospectively. The age ranged from 42 to 74 years old including 28 males and 6 females. Among them, 25 patients complaining of foreign body sensation in the pharynx for more than half a year with a poor exposure of the lower pharynx in the examination with flexible laryngoscope in the outpatient department were admitted to the hospital for the further examination with rigid curved laryngoscopy and 9 patients with stage T1-2 hypopharyngeal squamous cell carcinoma were operated with CLATOS technique. Preoperative, intraoperative and postoperative data were analized. Results: One case of squamous cell carcinoma in esophageal entrance (T1N0M0) and one case of carcinoma in pyriform sinus (T1N0M0) with cervical esophageal carcinoma (T1N0M0) were found in the 25 patients with foreign body sensation in the pharynx. En bloc resection of cancer was obtained in 9 patients with stage T1-2 hypopharyngeal carcinomas and 2 of them underwent tracheotomy. One patient with T1 retrocricoid carcinoma was found to have a carcinoma in situ at the lower part of posterior hypopharyngeal wall in the examination during follow-up, which was resected simultaneously. Postoperatively this patient developed a stenosis in the esophageal entrance, which was dilated twice until swallowing normally. Two patients of T2N0M0 and one of T2N1M0 underwent bilateral neck lymph node dissection just after the removal of primary tumors. During follow-up, none of the 9 patients showed tumor recurrence and complications such as dysphonia and dyspnea. Conclusion: CLATOS technique can provide a promising way in the examination of hypopharynx and the detection of early lesions of hypopharynx and esophageal entrance, and this technique has also the advantages such as full visual angle and easy operation for the resection of early hypopharyngeal carcinoma. The quality of life of patients can be improved while the tumor is removed en bloc with this technique.

Citation: Tian LL, et al. [Application of rigid curved laryngoscope in the examination of hypopharynx and the treatment of early hypopharyngeal cancer]. [Application of rigid curved laryngoscope in the examination of hypopharynx and the treatment of early hypopharyngeal cancer]. 2020; 55:1137-1142. doi: 10.3760/cma.j.cn115330-20200717-00599

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/33342129/
