PMID: 33345328
Title: Hirudin prevents vascular endothelial cell apoptosis and permeability enhancement induced by the serum from rat with chronic renal failure through inhibiting RhoA/ROCK signaling pathway.

Abstract: Endothelial cells injury and activation contribute to arteriovenous fistula (AVF) stenosis. Hirudin (Hiru) can inhibit the activity of thrombin, which was reported to enhance endothelial cell permeability and promote vascular inflammatory responses. RhoA/ROCK signaling pathway is also important in regulating vascular endothelial permeability. This study aimed to investigate the role of Hiru on the viability and permeability of human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVECs) following stimulation of serum from rat with chronic renal failure (CRF) and illustrated the effects of Hiru on RhoA/ROCK signaling. Wistar rats were randomly divided into control group and CRF group. Serum from each group was collected to stimulate HUVECs. Proliferation capability was estimated with Cell Count Kit-8 (CCK-8) assay. Transwell assay was performed to determine permeability. Cell apoptosis was examined using Tunel staining. Telomere length and telomerase activity were determined by qPCR. Moreover, the expression of RhoA, ROCK1 and ROCK2 was estimated via western blot. Results showed that the serum from CRF rat significantly inhibited cell viability while enhanced cell permeability and apoptosis. Different concentrations of Hiru prevented the above effects caused by CRF serum. Additionally, Hiru recovered the CRF serum-induced decreased telomere length and telomerase activity. Hiru also inhibited the protein expression of RhoA, ROCK1 and ROCK2, which were activated by CRF serum. Moreover, the ROCK inhibitor, Y27632, exhibited similar effects with Hiru. In conclusion, Hiru-restored HUVECs cell viability, telomere length and telomerase activity, suppressed permeability and apoptosis in the presence of CRF serum might depend on inactivating the RhoA/ROCK signaling.

Citation: Chen J, et al. Hirudin prevents vascular endothelial cell apoptosis and permeability enhancement induced by the serum from rat with chronic renal failure through inhibiting RhoA/ROCK signaling pathway. Hirudin prevents vascular endothelial cell apoptosis and permeability enhancement induced by the serum from rat with chronic renal failure through inhibiting RhoA/ROCK signaling pathway. 2021; 82:553-561. doi: 10.1002/ddr.21773

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/33345328/
