PMID: 33346090
Title: Ozagrel a thromboxane A2 synthase inhibitor extenuates endothelial dysfunction, oxidative stress and neuroinflammation in rat model of bilateral common carotid artery occlusion induced vascular dementia.

Abstract: The present study investigates the potential of ozagrel, a thromboxane A2 (TXA2) synthase inhibitor, in bilateral common carotid artery occlusion (BCCAo) induced vascular dementia (VaD). Wistar rats were subjected to BCCAo procedure under anesthesia to induce VaD. Morris water maze (MWM) test was employed on 7th day post-surgery to determine learning and memory. Endothelial dysfunction was assessed in isolated aorta by observing endothelial dependent vasorelaxation and levels of serum nitrite. A battery of biochemical and histopathological estimations was performed. Expression analysis of inflammatory cytokines TNF-α and IL-6 was carried out by RT-PCR. BCCAo produced significant impairment in endothelium dependent vasorelaxation and decrease in serum nitrite levels indicating endothelial dysfunction along with poor performance on MWM represents impairment of learning and memory. There was a significant rise in brain oxidative stress level (indicated by increase in brain thiobarbituric acid reactive species and decrease in reduced glutathione levels); increase in brain acetylcholinesterase activity; brain myeloperoxidase activity; brain TNF-α & IL-6 levels, brain TNF-α & IL-6 mRNA expression and brain neutrophil infiltration (as marker of inflammation) were also observed. Treatment of ozagrel (10 & 20 mg/kg, p. o.)/donepezil (0. 5 mg/kg, i.p., serving as standard) ameliorated BCCAo induced endothelial dysfunction; memory deficits; biochemical and histopathological changes in a significant manner. It may be concluded that ozagrel markedly improved endothelial dysfunction; learning and memory; biochemical and histopathological alteration associated with BCCAo induced VaD and that TXA2 can be considered as an important therapeutic target for the treatment of VaD.

Citation: Bhatia P, et al. Ozagrel a thromboxane A2 synthase inhibitor extenuates endothelial dysfunction, oxidative stress and neuroinflammation in rat model of bilateral common carotid artery occlusion induced vascular dementia. Ozagrel a thromboxane A2 synthase inhibitor extenuates endothelial dysfunction, oxidative stress and neuroinflammation in rat model of bilateral common carotid artery occlusion induced vascular dementia. 2021; 137:106827. doi: 10.1016/j.vph.2020.106827

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/33346090/
