PMID: 33351297
Title: [Modified sandwich urethral reconstruction in laparoscopic radical prostatectomy improves early recovery of urinary continence].

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: To explore the safety of modified sandwich urethral reconstruction (MSUR) in laparoscopic radical prostatectomy (LRP) and its effect on the early recovery of urinary continence.
METHODS: We retrospectively analyzed the clinical data on 20 patients treated by LRP with MSUR (the MSUR group) and another 21 cases of LRP without MSUR (the conventional control group) from January 2018 to September 2019. We compared the two groups of patients in the general data, anastomosis time, operation time and urinary continence recovery.
RESULTS: There were no statistically significant differences between the two groups of patients in the age, body mass index, Gleason scores, prostate volume and baseline PSA level (P > 0.05) or in operation time, intraoperative blood loss, drainage tube indwelling time, postoperative feeding time and postoperative hospital stay (P > 0.05). Anastomotic stenosis occurred in 1 case in the MSUR group postoperatively, which was cured after regular urethral dilation, and anastomotic fistula developed in 1 case in the control group, which was healed after 5 days of prolonged catheterization. The recovery rate of urinary continence at 12 weeks after catheter removal was significantly higher in the MSUR than in the control group (80.0% vs 47.6%, P < 0.05).
CONCLUSIONS: Modified sandwich urethral reconstruction in LRP is a safe, effective and feasible surgical strategy, which can significantly improve postoperative urinary continence recovery of the patient.

Citation: Guan H, et al. [Modified sandwich urethral reconstruction in laparoscopic radical prostatectomy improves early recovery of urinary continence]. [Modified sandwich urethral reconstruction in laparoscopic radical prostatectomy improves early recovery of urinary continence]. 2020; 26:316-320.

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/33351297/
