PMID: 33357520
Title: Long-Term Outcomes After PCI or CABG for Left Main Coronary Artery Disease According to Lesion Location.

Abstract: OBJECTIVES: The aim of this study was to investigate the impact of lesion site (ostial or shaft vs. distal bifurcation) on long-term outcomes after percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) or coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG) for left main coronary artery (LMCA) disease.
BACKGROUND: Long-term comparative data after PCI and CABG for LMCA disease according to lesion site are limited.
METHODS: Patients from the MAIN-COMPARE (Revascularization for Unprotected Left Main Coronary Artery Stenosis: Comparison of Percutaneous Coronary Angioplasty Versus Surgical Revascularization) registry were analyzed, comparing adverse outcomes (all-cause mortality [a composite outcome of death, Q-wave myocardial infarction, or stroke] and target vessel revascularization) between PCI and CABG according to LMCA lesion location during a median follow-up period of 12.0 years.
RESULTS: In overall population, the adjusted risks for death and serious composite outcome were higher after PCI than after CABG for distal bifurcation disease, which was mainly separated beyond 5 years. These outcomes were not different for ostial or shaft disease. When comparing drug-eluting stents (DES) and CABG, the adjusted risks for death and serious composite outcome progressively diverged beyond 5 years after DES compared with CABG for distal bifurcation disease (death: hazard ratio: 1.78; 95% confidence interval: 1.22 to 2.59; composite outcome: hazard ratio: 1.94; 95% confidence interval: 1.35 to 2.79). This difference was driven mainly by PCI with a 2-stent technique for distal bifurcation. In contrast, the adjusted risks for these outcomes were similar between DES and CABG for ostial or shaft disease.
CONCLUSIONS: Among patients with distal LMCA bifurcation disease, CABG showed lower mortality and serious composite outcome rates compared with DES beyond 5 years. However, there were no between-group differences in these outcomes among patients with ostial or shaft LMCA disease.

Citation: Hyun J, et al. Long-Term Outcomes After PCI or CABG for Left Main Coronary Artery Disease According to Lesion Location. Long-Term Outcomes After PCI or CABG for Left Main Coronary Artery Disease According to Lesion Location. 2020; 13:2825-2836. doi: 10.1016/j.jcin.2020.08.021

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/33357520/
