PMID: 33368431
Title: Role of Doppler Ultrasound Analysis of Blood Flow Through the Ophthalmic and Intracranial Arteries in Predicting Neurologic Symptoms During Carotid Endarterectomy.

Abstract: OBJECTIVES: Carotid endarterectomy (CEA) is frequently performed under locoregional anesthesia. The intraoperative clamping of the internal carotid artery (ICA) leads to cerebral hypoperfusion, which may in some patients result in the development of neurologic symptoms (NS). The objective of our study was to investigate whether there is an association between the preoperative ultrasound (US) Doppler flow in the ophthalmic artery (OA) and intracranial artery and the occurrence of these intraoperative NS.
METHODS: We compared 50 patients with NS and 150 patients without NS during CEA. We analyzed their preoperative blood flow characteristics by Doppler US and their clinical and demographic characteristics.
RESULTS: The contralateral ICA occlusion increased the likelihood of intraoperative NS (odds ratio [OR], 8.4; P < .001). Abnormal contralateral OA flow also increased the likelihood of NS (OR, 1.84; P < .001), whereas ipsilateral abnormal OA flow reduced it (OR, 0.73; P = .06). Increased flow in the ipsilateral anterior cerebral artery (ACA) increased the likelihood of NS (OR, 3.3), whereas reversed flow decreased it (OR, 0.1; P = .03). Inverse flow in the contralateral ACA increased the risk (OR, 5.4), whereas increased flow reduced it (OR, 0.2; P = .02). Male patients had a higher risk of NS (P = .09) as well as older patients (P = .05). Eight percent of the patients with NS developed a transient ischemic attack or stroke.
CONCLUSIONS: Doppler US analysis of the OA and ACA in combination with analysis of ICA stenosis may be a promising predictor of NS during ICA clamping. This, in turn, may warn the patient and the surgeon of an increased risk during surgery.

Citation: Franjić BD, et al. Role of Doppler Ultrasound Analysis of Blood Flow Through the Ophthalmic and Intracranial Arteries in Predicting Neurologic Symptoms During Carotid Endarterectomy. Role of Doppler Ultrasound Analysis of Blood Flow Through the Ophthalmic and Intracranial Arteries in Predicting Neurologic Symptoms During Carotid Endarterectomy. 2021; 40:2141-2156. doi: 10.1002/jum.15599

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/33368431/
