PMID: 33365063
Title: Proteomic profiling of biomarkers by MALDI-TOF mass spectrometry for the diagnosis of tracheobronchial stenosis after tracheobronchial tuberculosis.

Abstract: Tracheobronchial tuberculosis (TB) leads to airway stenosis, irreversible airway damage and even death. The present study aimed to identify biomarkers for the diagnosis of tracheobronchial stenosis (TBS) secondary to tracheobronchial TB. A cohort was recruited, including patients with TBS after tracheobronchial TB, TBS after tracheal intubation or tracheotomy (TIT) and no stenosis of early-stage lung cancer,. Proteomic profiling was performed to gain insight into the mechanisms of the pathological processes. Differentially expressed proteins in the serum and bronchial alveolar lavage fluid (BALF) from patients were detected by matrix-assisted laser desorption ionization time-of-flight mass spectrometry (MALDI-TOF MS). Subsequently, ELISA was performed to validate the changes of protein levels in an additional cohort. MALDI-TOF MS revealed that 8 peptides in the serum, including myeloid-associated differentiation marker, keratin type I cytoskeletal 18, fibrinogen α-chain, angiotensinogen (AGT), apolipoprotein A-I (APOAI), clusterin and two uncharacterized peptides, and nine peptides in BALF, including argininosuccinate lyase, APOAI, AGT and five uncharacterized peptides, were differentially expressed (molecular-weight range, 1,000-10,000 Da) in the TB group compared with the TIT group. The ELISA results indicated that the changes in the protein levels had a similar trend as those identified by proteomic profiling. In conclusion, the present study identified proteins that may serve as potential biomarkers and provide novel insight into the molecular mechanisms underlying TBS after tracheobronchial TB.

Citation: Peng B, et al. Proteomic profiling of biomarkers by MALDI-TOF mass spectrometry for the diagnosis of tracheobronchial stenosis after tracheobronchial tuberculosis. Proteomic profiling of biomarkers by MALDI-TOF mass spectrometry for the diagnosis of tracheobronchial stenosis after tracheobronchial tuberculosis. 2021; 21:63. doi: 10.3892/etm.2020.9495

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/33365063/
