PMID: 33374233
Title: Development and In Vitro Evaluation of 5-Fluorouracil-Eluting Stents for the Treatment of Colorectal Cancer and Cancer-Related Obstruction.

Abstract: Self-expanding metal stents (SEMSs) are currently the gold standard for the localised management of malignant gastrointestinal (GI) stenosis and/or obstructions. Despite encouraging clinical success, in-stent restenosis caused by tumour growth is a significant challenge. Incorporating chemotherapeutic drugs into GI stents is an emerging strategy to provide localised and sustained release of drugs to intestinal malignant tissues to prevent tumour growth. Therefore, the aim of this work was to develop and evaluate a local GI stent-based delivery system that provides a controlled release of 5-fluorouracil (5FU) over a course of several weeks to months, for the treatment of colorectal cancer and cancer-related stenosis/obstructions. The 5FU-loaded GI stents were fabricated via sequential dip-coating of commercial GI stents with a drug-loaded polyurethane (PU) basecoat and a drug-free poly(ethylene-co-vinyl acetate) (PEVA) topcoat. For comparison, two types of commercial stents were investigated, including bare and silicone (Si) membrane-covered stents. The physicochemical properties of the 5FU-loaded stents were evaluated using photoacoustic Fourier-transform infrared (PA-FTIR) spectroscopy, X-ray diffraction (XRD), X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS), scanning electron microscopy (SEM), and thermal analysis. In vitro release studies in biological medium revealed that the 5FU-loaded stents provided a sustained release of drug over the period studied (18 d), and cell viability, cell cycle distribution and apoptosis assays showed that the released 5FU had comparable anticancer activity against human colon cancer cells (HCT-116) to pure 5FU. This study demonstrates that dip-coating is a facile and reliable approach for fabricating drug-eluting stents (DESs) that are promising candidates for the treatment of GI obstructions and/or restenosis.

Citation: Arafat M, et al. Development and In Vitro Evaluation of 5-Fluorouracil-Eluting Stents for the Treatment of Colorectal Cancer and Cancer-Related Obstruction. Development and In Vitro Evaluation of 5-Fluorouracil-Eluting Stents for the Treatment of Colorectal Cancer and Cancer-Related Obstruction. 2020; 13:(unknown pages). doi: 10.3390/pharmaceutics13010017

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/33374233/
