PMID: 33373739
Title: Intraoperative Fluorescein Sodium Videoangiography in Intracranial Aneurysm Surgery.

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: Fluorescein sodium (FNa) videoangiography (VA) was performed to evaluate blood flow within vessels and exclusion of the aneurysm after surgical clipping of intracranial aneurysms. The aim of this study was to report results of FNa-VA in a case series, including benefits and limitations of the technique, and compare intraoperative findings with postoperative cerebral angiography to assess reliability of FNa-VA.
METHODS: The study included 64 aneurysms in 50 consecutive patients. Following clip ligation of the aneurysm, 100 mg of FNa was administered intravenously. The microscope light was switched to the FL560 integrated fluorescence module. Aneurysm sac, parent arteries, and perforating arteries were observed.
RESULTS: FNa-VA promoted real-time assessment of the surgical field in three-dimensional view through the binoculars with good image quality. In 79.68% of aneurysms, FNa-VA confirmed satisfactory clip application, as FNa did not penetrate into the aneurysm. In 14.06% of aneurysms, a homogeneous yellow-green color change occurred, which was accepted as a false-positive sign. In 6.25% of aneurysms, FNa seeped into the aneurysm emitting a heterogeneous green signal, which slowly dispersed throughout the sac. Postoperative angiography revealed satisfactory results. Small neck remnants were present in 5 patients, and mild parent artery stenosis was found in 3 patients. No ischemic event occurred secondary to parent artery or perforating artery occlusion.
CONCLUSIONS: FNa-VA adds greatly to the safety of surgical treatment of intracranial aneurysms, particularly in lesions situated in deep locations, by enabling real-time inspection, which facilitates safer manipulation and evaluation of structures in question.

Citation: Küçükyürük B, et al. Intraoperative Fluorescein Sodium Videoangiography in Intracranial Aneurysm Surgery. Intraoperative Fluorescein Sodium Videoangiography in Intracranial Aneurysm Surgery. 2021; 147:e444-e452. doi: 10.1016/j.wneu.2020.12.085

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/33373739/
