PMID: 33376633
Title: Characterization of Laminins in Healthy Human Aortic Valves and a Modified Decellularized Rat Scaffold.

Abstract: Aortic valve stenosis is one of the most common cardiovascular diseases in western countries and can only be treated by replacement with a prosthetic valve. Tissue engineering is an emerging and promising treatment option, but in-depth knowledge about the microstructure of native heart valves is lacking, making the development of tissue-engineered heart valves challenging. Specifically, the basement membrane (BM) of heart valves remains incompletely characterized, and decellularization protocols that preserve BM components are necessary to advance the field. This study aims to characterize laminin isoforms expressed in healthy human aortic valves and establish a small animal decellularized aortic valve scaffold for future studies of the BM in tissue engineering. Laminin isoforms were assessed by immunohistochemistry with antibodies specific for individual α, β, and γ chains. The results indicated that LN-411, LN-421, LN-511, and LN-521 are expressed in human aortic valves (n = 3), forming a continuous monolayer in the endothelial BM, whereas sparsely found in the interstitium. Similar results were seen in rat aortic valves (n = 3). Retention of laminin and other BM components, concomitantly with effective removal of cells and residual DNA, was achieved through 3 h exposure to 1% sodium dodecyl sulfate and 30 min exposure to 1% Triton X-100, followed by nuclease processing in rat aortic valves (n = 3). Our results provide crucial data on the microenvironment of valvular cells relevant for research in both tissue engineering and heart valve biology. We also describe a decellularized rat aortic valve scaffold useful for mechanistic studies on the role of the BM in heart valve regeneration.

Citation: Granath C, et al. Characterization of Laminins in Healthy Human Aortic Valves and a Modified Decellularized Rat Scaffold. Characterization of Laminins in Healthy Human Aortic Valves and a Modified Decellularized Rat Scaffold. 2020; 9:269-278. doi: 10.1089/biores.2020.0018

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/33376633/
