PMID: 33377476
Title: Role of Magnetic Resonance Spectroscopy in Evaluation of Cerebral Metabolic Status Before and After Carotid Endarterectomy/Thromboendarterectomy and Carotid Artery Stenting in Patients with Asymptomatic Critical Internal Carotid Artery Stenosis.

Abstract: BACKGROUND The relative efficacy of carotid endarterectomy (CEA)/thromboendarterectomy (TEA) and carotid artery stenting (CAS) already has been compared in randomized controlled trials and a meta-analysis, but only limited data exist describing the status of cerebral metabolism before and after these interventions. The aim of the present study was to compare metabolic changes before and after treatment of carotid stenosis and assess their potential clinical implications.   MATERIAL AND METHODS Patients with asymptomatic unilateral critical internal CAS were imaged with proton 3T magnetic resonance spectroscopy (H-MRS) because the technique is more sensitive than regular magnetic resonance imaging for detection of the early signs of ischemic events. Abnormal metabolite ratios detected with H-MRS may precede actual morphological changes associated with hypoperfusion as well as reperfusion changes. Ipsilateral and contralateral middle cerebral artery vascular territories were both evaluated before and after vascular intervention. H-MRS was performed within 24 h before and after surgery. Correlations in the metabolic data from H-MRS for N-acetylaspartic acid (NAA)+N-acetylaspartylglutamate, creatinine (Cr)+phosphocreatinine, and phosphocholine+glycerophosphocholine (Cho) were sought. RESULTS H-MRS voxels from 11 subjects were analyzed. Values for dCho/CrI, dCho/CrC and Cho/Naal (P<0.001) were significantly higher ipsilaterally than contralaterally. Ratios for dNaa/ChoC and Cho/NaaC were significantly higher on the non-operated side (P<0.001). CONCLUSIONS H-MRS may be helpful for assessment of patients with CAS, particularly because unlike other modalities, it reveals postoperative changes in metabolic brain status. Initial results indicate the important role of perioperative neuroprotective treatment.

Citation: Sklinda K, et al. Role of Magnetic Resonance Spectroscopy in Evaluation of Cerebral Metabolic Status Before and After Carotid Endarterectomy/Thromboendarterectomy and Carotid Artery Stenting in Patients with Asymptomatic Critical Internal Carotid Artery Stenosis. Role of Magnetic Resonance Spectroscopy in Evaluation of Cerebral Metabolic Status Before and After Carotid Endarterectomy/Thromboendarterectomy and Carotid Artery Stenting in Patients with Asymptomatic Critical Internal Carotid Artery Stenosis. 2020; 26:e927029. doi: 10.12659/MSM.927029

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/33377476/
