PMID: 33373378
Title: Perioperative changes of response to antiplatelet medication in vascular surgery patients.

Abstract: INTRODUCTION: Reduced antiplatelet activity of aspirin (ALR) or clopidogrel (CLR) is associated with an increased risk of thromboembolic events. The reported prevalence data for low-responders vary widely and there have been few investigations in vascular surgery patients even though they are at high risk for thromb-embolic complications. The aim of this prospective observational monocentric study was to elucidate possible changes in ALR or CLR after common vascular procedures.
METHODS: Activity of aspirin and clopidogrel was measured by impedance aggregometry using a multiple electrode aggregometer (Multiplate®). Possible risk factors for ALR or CLR were identified by demographical, clinical data and laboratory parameters. In addition, a follow-up aggregometry was performed after completion of the vascular procedure to identify changes in antiplatelet response.
RESULTS: A total of 176 patients taking antiplatelet medications aspirin and/or clopidogrel with peripheral artery disease (PAD) and/or carotid stenosis (CS) were included in the study. The prevalence of ALR was 13.1% and the prevalence of CLR was 32% in the aggregometry before vascular treatment. Potential risk factors identified in the aspirin group were concomitant insulin medication (p = 0.0006) and elevated C-reactive protein (CRP) (p = 0.0021). The overall ALR increased significantly postoperatively to 27.5% (p = 0.0006); however, there was no significant change in CLR that was detected. In a subgroup analysis elevation of the platelet count was associated with a post-procedure increase of ALR incidence.
CONCLUSION: The incidence of ALR in vascular surgery patients increases after vascular procedures. An elevated platelet count was detected as a risk factor. Further studies are necessary to analyse this potential influence on patency rates of vascular reconstructions.

Citation: Hummel T, et al. Perioperative changes of response to antiplatelet medication in vascular surgery patients. Perioperative changes of response to antiplatelet medication in vascular surgery patients. 2020; 15:e0244330. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0244330

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/33373378/
