PMID: 33382355
Title: Preservation of the Arterial Arc Formed by Left Colic Artery, Proximal Inferior Mesenteric Artery, and the First Branch of Sigmoid Arteries in Anus Saving Treatment of Low Rectal Cancer.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Low anterior, ultralow anterior, and intersphincteric resection are conventional, elective anus-sparing techniques for low rectal cancer, and good prognosis depends on a good blood supply and tension-free anastomosis.
AIM: The goal is to assess the effect of preserving the arc formed by the left colic and proximal inferior mesenteric arteries (IMAs), and first branch of the sigmoid arteries on the anastomotic blood supply, tension, and leakage rate in anus-sparing surgery for low rectal cancer.
METHOD: From 2011 to 2020, a patient with low rectal cancer resection was distributed into the ligation group (42 cases with inferior mesenteric artery ligation) and the preservation group (61 cases with preservation of the left colic and proximal IMAs and first branch of the sigmoid artery).
RESULTS: We evaluated patient characteristics, operative results, morbidity, and postoperative follow-up results. There were comparable outcomes between ligation and preservation groups in relations to the number of patients in each operative procedure, duration of surgery, operative blood loss, postoperative hospital stay, and the number of patients with protective stoma (P &gt;.05). In postoperative morbidity, there were similar outcomes between ligation and preservation groups in terms of anastomotic subclinical dehiscence, bleeding and stricture, and urinary retention (P &gt;.05). There were significant differences in anastomotic leakage and intra-abdominal abscess (P &lt; .05).
CONCLUSION: Preservation of the arterial arc formed by left colic artery, proximal IMA, and the first branch of sigmoid arteries with apical lymph node dissection could increase anastomotic blood supply, reduce anastomotic tension, and leakage rate in anus-saving treatment of low rectal cancer.

Citation: Shaibu Z, et al. Preservation of the Arterial Arc Formed by Left Colic Artery, Proximal Inferior Mesenteric Artery, and the First Branch of Sigmoid Arteries in Anus Saving Treatment of Low Rectal Cancer. Preservation of the Arterial Arc Formed by Left Colic Artery, Proximal Inferior Mesenteric Artery, and the First Branch of Sigmoid Arteries in Anus Saving Treatment of Low Rectal Cancer. 2021; 87:1956-1964. doi: 10.1177/0003134820983188

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/33382355/
