PMID: 33384576
Title: Preliminary Study of Subclinical Brain Alterations in Patients With Asymptomatic Carotid Vulnerable Plaques Using Intravoxel Incoherent Motion Imaging by Voxelwise Comparison: A Study of Whole-Brain Imaging Measures.

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: To preliminarily explore subclinical brain alterations in an asymptomatic carotid vulnerable plaque group based on intravoxel incoherent motion (IVIM) imaging through voxelwise comparison in the whole brain.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Forty-nine elderly participants underwent multi-b-value DWI, of whom 24 participants with asymptomatic carotid vulnerable plaques and &lt;50% stenosis served as the test group, while the rest served as the healthy control group. After fitting the double-exponential model, slow ADC (Ds) and the fraction of fast ADC (f) values of the whole brain were obtained, which then were compared in a voxelwise manner by two-sample t-test. Multiple comparisons were corrected by the family-wise error (FWE) method with a corrected threshold of P &lt; 0.05. Pearson correlations between IVIM parameters in altered brain regions and blood pressure, glucose, lipid, and homocysteine were calculated.
RESULTS: For the test group, the Z-normalized Ds values were significantly higher in the left median cingulate and paracingulate gyrus (DCG.L), posterior cingulate gyrus (PCG. L), and left precuneus gyrus (PCUN.L) (cluster size = 156) and in the left middle frontal gyrus (MFG.L), orbital middle frontal gyrus (ORBmid.L), and superior frontal gyrus (SFG.L) (cluster size = 165); the Z-normalized Ds values were significantly lower in the right middle temporal gyrus (MTG.R) and inferior temporal gyrus (ITG.R) (cluster size = 116); and the Z-normalized f-values were significantly lower in the MTG.R and ITG.R (cluster size = 85) (p &lt; 0.05, FWE correction). LDL-C was negatively correlated with the Z-normalized Ds values in the DCG.L, PCG.L, and PCUN.L (r = 0.601, p = 0.002). LDL-C was positively correlated with the Z-normalized f-value in the MTG.R and ITG.R (r = 0.405, p = 0.05). Systolic blood pressure was positively correlated with the Z-normalized Ds values in the MFG.L, ORBmid.L, and SFG.L (r = 0.433, p = 0.035).
CONCLUSION: This study was the first to detect subclinical brain alterations in asymptomatic carotid vulnerable plaque group through IVIM using whole-brain voxelwise comparisons, which were partially correlated with blood pressure and lipids. Thus, IVIM might be utilized as a noninvasive biomarker of microvascular and microstructural brain changes in the asymptomatic carotid vulnerable plaque group.

Citation: Guo J, et al. Preliminary Study of Subclinical Brain Alterations in Patients With Asymptomatic Carotid Vulnerable Plaques Using Intravoxel Incoherent Motion Imaging by Voxelwise Comparison: A Study of Whole-Brain Imaging Measures. Preliminary Study of Subclinical Brain Alterations in Patients With Asymptomatic Carotid Vulnerable Plaques Using Intravoxel Incoherent Motion Imaging by Voxelwise Comparison: A Study of Whole-Brain Imaging Measures. 2020; 14:562830. doi: 10.3389/fnins.2020.562830

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/33384576/
