PMID: 33399705
Title: Peripheral venoarterial extracorporeal membrane oxygenation for periprocedural Cardiogenic shock during interventional cardiology.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Cardiogenic shock (CS) is uncommon in the cardiac catheterization laboratory (CCL) among patients undergoing coronary angiography. Periprocedural CS is more frequent in high-risk patients and in technically demanding procedures.
AIM: To describe the clinical outcomes of patients who underwent peripheral venoarterial extracorporeal membrane oxygenation (pVA-ECMO) for CS associated with interventional cardiology procedures.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: Review of clinical records of seven patients treated between January 2014 and October 2018.
RESULTS: pVA-ECMO was implanted within 6 hours of the interventional cardiology procedure. All patients had coronary artery disease and one of them also had symptomatic severe aortic stenosis. One patient entered the CCL in cardiac arrest. Percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) was performed in all patients; four patients underwent an emergency procedure and five patients experienced PCI complications. One patient undergoing transcatheter aortic valve replacement suffered acute severe aortic regurgitation. An intra-aortic balloon pump was inserted at the CCL in five patients. Six patients experienced cardiac arrest. Mean SAVE score was -4.3 and baseline lactate 55 mg/dl. pVA-ECMO mean duration was 5 ± 4 days. Survival after both hospital discharge and 12 months of follow-up was 85.7% Regarding vascular access complications, we observed one access site hematoma and one episode of cannulation site bleeding requiring surgical repair.
CONCLUSIONS: pVA-ECMO should be considered in patients with periprocedural CS as a bridge to recovery. Its use was associated with improved clinical outcomes in this series.

Citation: Verdugo FJ, et al. Peripheral venoarterial extracorporeal membrane oxygenation for periprocedural Cardiogenic shock during interventional cardiology. Peripheral venoarterial extracorporeal membrane oxygenation for periprocedural Cardiogenic shock during interventional cardiology. 2020; 148:1295-1301. doi: 10.4067/S0034-98872020000901295

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/33399705/
