PMID: 33416124
Title: ADAM10 promotes the proliferation of ligamentum flavum cells by activating the PI3K/AKT pathway.

Abstract: Ligamentum flavum hypertrophy (LFH) is an important cause of spinal canal stenosis and posterior longitudinal ligament ossification. Although a number of studies have focused on the mechanisms responsible for LFH, the cellular mechanisms remain poorly understood. The aim of the present study was to investigate the roles of differentially expressed genes (DEGs) in LFH, elucidate the mechanisms responsible for LFH and provide a potential therapeutic target for further studies. The GSE113212 dataset was downloaded from the Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) database. The microarray data were analyzed and DEGs were obtained. Bioinformatics methods, such as Gene Ontology (GO), Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) enrichment and protein‑protein interaction (PPI) network analyses were used to obtain the key genes and signaling pathways. In addition, cells derived from hypertrophied ligamentum flavum were cultured, and the key genes and signaling pathways in ligamentum cells were identified through in vitro cell biology and molecular biology experiments. A total of 2,123 genes were screened as DEGs. Among these DEGs, 1,384 genes were upregulated and 739 genes were downregulated. The KEGG pathway analysis revealed that the DEGs were mainly enriched in the PI3K/AKT signaling pathway, and the PPI network analysis screened A disintegrin and metalloproteinase 10 (ADAM10) as a key gene. In vitro experimental verification revealed that ADAM10 promoted the proliferation of ligamentum flavum cells and led to the hypertrophy of the ligamentum by activating the PI3K/AKT pathway. On the whole, the in vitro experimental results suggested that ADAM10 promoted the proliferation of ligamentum flavum cells by activating the PI3K/AKT pathway, which may represent a pathogenic mechanism of LFH. The findings of the present study may provide a basis and direction for further studies on the cellular mechanisms of LFH and present a potential novel therapeutic target and clinical approach.

Citation: Pan B, et al. ADAM10 promotes the proliferation of ligamentum flavum cells by activating the PI3K/AKT pathway. ADAM10 promotes the proliferation of ligamentum flavum cells by activating the PI3K/AKT pathway. 2021; 47:688-698. doi: 10.3892/ijmm.2020.4809

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/33416124/
