PMID: 33425551
Title: Unsuccessful Endovascular Treatment in a Patient With Stroke Onset of Takayasu Arteritis and Positive Clinical Outcome.

Abstract: Takayasu's arteritis (TA) is a chronic progressive vasculitis affecting large and medium-sized vessels, mainly in young subjects. It is most common in women with a higher prevalence in the Asian population. Stroke is a rare complication of TA, and these patients usually have a poor therapeutic response to revascularization treatments (thrombolysis and/or thrombectomy). We report a case of a male patient aged between 40 and 50 years admitted to our Emergency Department's Stroke Unit for sudden left hemiplegia, hypoesthesia, and dysarthria caused by right internal carotid artery (ICA), middle cerebral artery (MCA), and anterior cerebral artery (ACA) occlusion. He was treated with intravenous thrombolysis (r-tPA), endovascular carotid stenting, and thromboaspiration. We also revealed subclavian stenosis, vascular bruit, erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR), and C-reactive protein (CRP) elevation; therefore, a diagnosis of TA was made. Double antiplatelet therapy (DAPT) was started. Despite the early post-procedural carotid stent occlusion, the patient was discharged with a full recovery (neurological index of stroke scale [NIHSS] = 0). Thefive5-year clinical follow-up showed no clinical neurological relapses, and no arterial restenosis was found by further carotid artery echo-Doppler. Takayasu arteritis is a rare cause of ischemic stroke in young adults; however, stroke may be the first manifestation of the disease. Guidelines concerning the role of revascularization treatment in this type of patients are unclear. In this regard, the clinical experience and the multidisciplinary approach applied in our case had a pivotal role. Such an approach would eventually advocate for standardized treatment in patients with stroke and TA.

Citation: Mangiardi M, et al. Unsuccessful Endovascular Treatment in a Patient With Stroke Onset of Takayasu Arteritis and Positive Clinical Outcome. Unsuccessful Endovascular Treatment in a Patient With Stroke Onset of Takayasu Arteritis and Positive Clinical Outcome. 2020; 12:e11980. doi: 10.7759/cureus.11980

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/33425551/
