PMID: 33447503
Title: Detection of Functionally Significant Coronary Artery Disease: Role of Regional Post Systolic Shortening.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: The main goal of this manuscript was to evaluate the diagnostic value of the global and regional postsystolic shortening (PSS) parameters, assessed by two-dimensional (2D) speckle-tracking echocardiography, at rest and during dobutamine stress for the detection of functionally significant coronary artery stenoses in patients with moderate pretest probability of stable coronary artery disease (CAD).
METHODS: Dobutamine stress echocardiography (DSE) and adenosine stress myocardial perfusion imaging by cardiac magnetic resonance (CMR-MPI) were performed on 83 patients with moderate pretest probability of stable CAD and left ventricle ejection fraction ≥55%. CAD was defined as ≥50% diameter stenoses on invasive coronary artery angiography (CAA) validated as hemodynamically significant by CMR-MPI. According to invasive CAA and CMR-MPI results, patients were divided into two groups: Nonpathologic CAD (-) group: 38 (45.8%) and pathologic CAD (+) group: 45 (54.2%).
RESULTS: There were no significant differences in clinical characteristics, conventional 2D echocardiography between the two groups at rest and during low dobutamine dose. Regional postsystolic index (PSI) during recovery phase had the highest area under the receiver operating characteristic curve (AUC) (AUC 0.882, sensitivity 87%, specificity 92%) for the detection of functionally significant one-vessel disease. During high dobutamine dose, regional PSI had sensitivity 78% and specificity 81% (AUC 0.78) to detect significant CAD. Regional PSI remained the same tendency remains for the detection of multiple-vessel CAD. Other myocardial deformation parameters were less sensitive and specific during high dobutamine dose and recovery phase.
CONCLUSIONS: PSS parameters showed to be sensitive and specific in detecting hemodynamically significant coronary artery stenosis in patients with stable CAD with moderate pretest probability. The study revealed that the assessment of regional PSI performed during recovery improves the diagnostic accuracy of DSE for the detection of functionally significant CAD.

Citation: Rumbinaite E, et al. Detection of Functionally Significant Coronary Artery Disease: Role of Regional Post Systolic Shortening. Detection of Functionally Significant Coronary Artery Disease: Role of Regional Post Systolic Shortening. 2020; 30:131-139. doi: 10.4103/jcecho.jcecho_55_19

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/33447503/
