PMID: 33442639
Title: Case report: Buddy wire technique to facilitate atrial septal crossing during transcatheter transseptal mitral valve implantation.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Transcatheter mitral valve-in-valve implantation (MVIV) has emerged as a viable treatment option in patients at high risk for surgery. Occasionally, despite appropriate puncture location and adequate dilation, difficulty is encountered in advancing the transcatheter heart valve across interatrial septum.
CASE SUMMARY: We describe a case of a 79-year-old woman with severe chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), prior surgical bioprosthetic aortic and mitral valve replacement implanted in 2007, atrial fibrillation, and Group II pulmonary hypertension who presented with progressively worsening heart failure symptoms secondary to severe bioprosthetic mitral valve stenosis and moderate-severe mitral regurgitation. Her symptoms had worsened over several months, with multiple admissions at other institutions with treatment for both COPD exacerbation and heart failure. Transoesophageal echocardiogram demonstrated preserved ejection fraction, normal functioning aortic valve, and dysfunctional mitral prosthesis with severe stenosis (mean gradient 13 mmHg) and moderate-severe regurgitation. After a multi-disciplinary heart team discussion, the patient underwent a transcatheter MVIV implantation. During the case, inability in advancing the transcatheter heart valve (THV) across interatrial septum despite adequate septal balloon pre-dilation was successfully managed with the support of a stiff 'buddy wire' anchored in the left upper pulmonary vein using the same septal puncture. The patient tolerated the procedure well and was discharged home.
DISCUSSION: Operators should be aware of potential strategies to advance the THV when difficulty is encountered in crossing the atrial septum despite adequate septal preparation. One such strategy is the use of stiff 'buddy wire' for support which avoids the need for more aggressive septal dilatation.

Citation: Mangla A, et al. Case report: Buddy wire technique to facilitate atrial septal crossing during transcatheter transseptal mitral valve implantation. Case report: Buddy wire technique to facilitate atrial septal crossing during transcatheter transseptal mitral valve implantation. 2020; 4:1-4. doi: 10.1093/ehjcr/ytaa373

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/33442639/
