PMID: 33447700
Title: A case report of a transcarotid transcatheter aortic valve implantation with concomitant carotid endarterectomy.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Transcarotid transcatheter aortic valve implantation (TAVI) is a worthwhile substitute in patients who might otherwise be inoperable; however, it is applied in <10% of TAVI cases. In patients with established carotid artery stenosis, the risk of complications is increased with the transcarotid access route.
CASE SUMMARY: We report a case of concomitant transcarotid TAVI and carotid endarterectomy (CEA) in a patient with bovine aortic arch and previous complex infrarenal EndoVascular Aortic Repair (EVAR). The integrity and positioning of the previous EVAR endograft was risked by transfemoral access. The right subclavian artery was only 4.5 mm and the left subclavian was totally occluded so transcarotid access was chosen. The patient recovered well, with no neurological deficit and was discharged home after 72 h. He was last seen and was doing well 6 months post-procedure.
DISCUSSION: In patients with severe aortoiliac disease, or previous aortic endografting, transfemoral access for TAVI can be challenging or even prohibitive. Alternative access sites such as transapical or transaortic are associated with added risk because they carry increased risk of major adverse cardiovascular events, longer intensive care unit and hospital stay, and increased cost. A transcaval approach for TAVI has also been reported but was not suitable for our patient due to prior EVAR. Concomitant TAVI via transcarotid access and CEA can be successful in experienced hands. This case highlights the importance of a team-based approach to complex TAVI cases in high-risk patients with complex vascular access.

Citation: Sultan S, et al. A case report of a transcarotid transcatheter aortic valve implantation with concomitant carotid endarterectomy. A case report of a transcarotid transcatheter aortic valve implantation with concomitant carotid endarterectomy. 2020; 4:1-6. doi: 10.1093/ehjcr/ytaa379

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/33447700/
