PMID: 33447705
Title: Delayed occurrence of an accelerated idioventricular rhythm with alternating bundle branch block after myocardial infarction as predictor of sudden cardiac arrest: a case report.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Accelerated idioventricular rhythm (AIVR) is known as reperfusion arrhythmia in the setting of acute myocardial infarction (AMI). In healthy individuals, it is usually considered to be benign. Alternating bundle branch block (ABBB) often progresses to complete atrioventricular block requiring permanent pacemaker implantation. We report a case of delayed appearance of AIVR following myocardial infarction (MI) in combination with ABBB as precursor of sudden cardiac arrest due to ventricular fibrillation (VF).
CASE SUMMARY: A 62-year-old male with pre-existing left bundle branch block (LBBB) was admitted with an acute non-ST segment elevation MI. He underwent successful percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) of a subtotal proximal left anterior descending artery (LAD) stenosis. Before and after PCI the electrocardiogram (ECG) demonstrated sinus rhythm with LBBB. The patient was discharged 5 days after PCI, left ventricular function at this time was moderately reduced (ejection fraction of 40%). After another 5 days, the patient was admitted for elective cardiac rehabilitation. At this time, the ECG demonstrated an AIVR with right bundle branch block morphology. Due to ABBB, the patient was scheduled for permanent pacemaker implantation. Before pacemaker implantation could take place, the patient developed a sudden cardiac arrest due to VF and was successfully resuscitated. A follow-up coronary angiography revealed no novel lesions. A cardiac resynchronization therapy defibrillator was implanted for secondary prevention of sudden cardiac death.
DISCUSSION: Delayed occurrence of AIVR in combination with ABBB following AMI could be a predictor of sudden cardiac death. These patients are probably at high risk for malignant ventricular arrhythmias.

Citation: Bettin M, et al. Delayed occurrence of an accelerated idioventricular rhythm with alternating bundle branch block after myocardial infarction as predictor of sudden cardiac arrest: a case report. Delayed occurrence of an accelerated idioventricular rhythm with alternating bundle branch block after myocardial infarction as predictor of sudden cardiac arrest: a case report. 2020; 4:1-7. doi: 10.1093/ehjcr/ytaa378

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/33447705/
