PMID: 33456666
Title: Danhong Injection Alleviates Cardiac Fibrosis via Preventing the Hypermethylation of Rasal1 and Rassf1 in TAC Mice.

Abstract: BACKGROUND/AIM: Danhong injection (DHI) is a Chinese patent drug used for relieving cardiovascular diseases. Recent studies have suggested that DNA methylation plays a pivotal role in the maintenance of cardiac fibrosis (CF) in cardiovascular diseases. This study was aimed at identifying the effect and the underlying mechanism of DHI on CF, especially the DNA methylation.
METHODS: A CF murine model was established by thoracic aortic constriction (TAC). A 28-day daily treatment with or without DHI via intraperitoneal injection was carried out immediately following TAC surgery. The changes in cardiac function, pathology, and fibrosis following TAC were measured by echocardiography and immunostaining. We used methyl-seq analysis to assess the DNA methylation changes in whole genes and identified the methylation changes of two Ras signaling-related genes in TAC mice, including Ras protein activator like-1 (Rasal1) and Ras-association domain family 1 (Rassf1). Next, the methylation status and expression levels of Rasal1 and Rassf1 genes were consolidated by bisulfite sequencing, quantitative reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-qPCR), and Western blotting, respectively. To determine the underlying molecular mechanism, the expressions of DNA methyltransferases (DNMTs), Tet methylcytosine dioxygenase 3 (TET3), fibrosis-related genes, and the activity of Ras/ERK were measured by RT-qPCR and Western blotting.
RESULTS: DHI treatment alleviated CF and significantly improved cardiac function on day 28 of TAC. The methyl-seq analysis identified 42,606 differential methylated sites (DMSs), including 19,618 hypermethylated DMSs and 22,988 hypomethylated DMSs between TAC and sham-operated mice. The enrichment analysis of these DMSs suggested that the methylated regulation of Ras signal transduction and focal adhesion-related genes would be involved in the TAC-induced CF development. The results of bisulfite sequencing revealed that the TAC-induced methylation affected the CpG site in both of Rasal1 and Rassf1 genes, and DHI treatment remarkably downregulated the promoter methylation of Rasal1 and Rassf1 in CF hearts. Furthermore, DHI treatment upregulated the expressions of Rasal1 and Rassf1, inhibited the hyperactivity of Ras/ERK, and decreased the expressions of fibrosis-related genes. Notably, we found that DHI treatment markedly downregulated the expression of DNMT3B in CF hearts, while it did not affect the expressions of DNMT1, DNMT3A, and TET3.
CONCLUSION: Aberrant DNA methylation of Rasal1 and Rassf1 genes was involved in the CF development. DHI treatment alleviated CF, prevented the hypermethylation of Rasal1 and Rassf1, and downregulated DNMT3B expression in CF hearts.

Citation: Li S, et al. Danhong Injection Alleviates Cardiac Fibrosis via Preventing the Hypermethylation of Rasal1 and Rassf1 in TAC Mice. Danhong Injection Alleviates Cardiac Fibrosis via Preventing the Hypermethylation of Rasal1 and Rassf1 in TAC Mice. 2020; 2020:3158108. doi: 10.1155/2020/3158108

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/33456666/
