PMID: 33457657
Title: Laparoscopy-Assisted Cutaneous Vesicostomy in Combination with Radical Nephrectomy in an Adult Patient with Neurogenic Bladder and Difficulty with Permanent Urinary Catheterization.

Abstract: Background: Cutaneous vesicostomy is a urinary diversion for chronic urinary retention caused by neurogenic bladder. In this procedure, urine is drained directly from the bladder into a pouch attached to the lower abdomen, where the use of a catheter is unnecessary. Although complications of this procedure have been described, such as stoma stenosis, bladder prolapse, bladder calculi, and peristomal dermatitis, it is useful for patients who have difficulty with permanent bladder catheterization. The laparoscopy-assisted technique for cutaneous vesicostomy has not been described in the existing literature. In this report, we describe the case of an adult patient with chronic urinary retention caused by a neurogenic bladder who underwent laparoscopy-assisted cutaneous vesicostomy. Case Presentation: A 61-year-old man with intellectual disability was referred to our department because of macroscopic hematuria and urinary retention. Abdominal ultrasonography and computed tomography images showed excessive bladder dilation and bilateral hydronephrosis. A left kidney tumor was found incidentally. We diagnosed left renal carcinoma and chronic urinary retention caused by a neurogenic bladder. We suspected that the hematuria resulted from the renal cancer or from mucosal or submucosal vessel injury caused by excessive dilation of the bladder. Because of the patient's intellectual disability, self-intermittent catheterization or management of a urethral catheter was not possible. Therefore, we performed left radical nephrectomy laparoscopically followed by laparoscopy-assisted cutaneous vesicostomy under general anesthesia. By using laparoscopy, we could construct the vesicostomy in the bladder dome with less tension, and no stomal complications had occurred at 7 months postoperatively. Conclusion: Laparoscopy-assisted cutaneous vesicostomy was a safe and feasible surgical technique in our adult patient with chronic urinary retention. This procedure may be considered effective for patients having difficulty with permanent urinary catheterization.

Citation: Ochi A, et al. Laparoscopy-Assisted Cutaneous Vesicostomy in Combination with Radical Nephrectomy in an Adult Patient with Neurogenic Bladder and Difficulty with Permanent Urinary Catheterization. Laparoscopy-Assisted Cutaneous Vesicostomy in Combination with Radical Nephrectomy in an Adult Patient with Neurogenic Bladder and Difficulty with Permanent Urinary Catheterization. 2020; 6:291-296. doi: 10.1089/cren.2020.0030

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/33457657/
