PMID: 33457254
Title: Prostate biopsy free system for laparoscopic radical prostatectomy in a pituitary dwarfism: a case report.

Abstract: Prostate biopsy is the gold standard for the diagnosis of prostate cancer. However, not all patients are suitable for prostate biopsy. For example, some patients have anal stenosis, some patients are too old to withstand the pain caused by puncture, patients who are unwilling to undergo prostate biopsy. We found that there was currently no literature report on a specific solution to this problem. This is the first report of a laparoscopic radical prostatectomy (LRP) in a pituitary dwarfism who didn't have a prostate biopsy before LRP due to anal stenosis. And this report added a new method to diagnose prostate cancer. We present a case of a 61-year-old pituitary dwarfism who had a prostate specific antigen (PSA) of 32.13 ng/mL by physical examination and didn't perform prostate biopsy due to anal stenosis. Preoperative prostate MRI suggests a low-signal mass on the left side of the prostate and 68Ga PSMA-11 PET/CT demonstrated that Abnormally high PSMA and CHO uptake on the left side of the prostate. Therefore, combined with the patient's PSA, MRI and 68Ga PSMA-11 PET/CT, our clinical diagnosis was prostate cancer. Surgery was difficult due to narrow pelvic space, but achievable through LRP. Histological analysis revealed multifocal prostate cancer, with negative surgical margins and no extraprostatic extension. Postoperative patient had no serious complications and was discharged. Based on this case, For the first time, we proposed to make full use of the results of clinical tests and imaging examinations for the diagnosis and treatment of diseases without prostate biopsy.

Citation: Zhou J, et al. Prostate biopsy free system for laparoscopic radical prostatectomy in a pituitary dwarfism: a case report. Prostate biopsy free system for laparoscopic radical prostatectomy in a pituitary dwarfism: a case report. 2020; 9:2831-2835. doi: 10.21037/tau-20-489

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/33457254/
