PMID: 33504251
Title: Homocysteine Associated With Low Cognitive Function Independent of Asymptomatic Intracranial and Carotid Arteries Stenoses in Chinese Elderly Patients: An Outpatient-Based Cross-Sectional Study.

Abstract: INTRODUCTION: A high homocysteine (Hcy) concentration is correlated with cognitive impairment; however, the exact underlying mechanism is still not fully elucidated. The present study aimed to investigate whether asymptomatic intracranial and carotid arteries stenoses are involved in Hcy-related low cognitive function.
METHODS: This was a cross-sectional study in outpatient clinics. Residents aged ≥60 years, who came to the Stroke and Rehabilitation Clinic of Shandong Provincial Third Hospital in Jinan, Shandong Province from December 2019 to May 2020 to seek consultation due to abnormal transcranial Doppler reports (eg., increased cerebral blood flow velocity) were eligible. Information including demographics, medical history, lifestyle habits were collected. Fasting blood was used to detect total serum homocysteine level (tHcy). Cerebrovascular magnetic resonance angiography and neck vascular ultrasound examination were used to confirm the diagnosis of intracranial and carotid artery stenoses. The Mini-Mental State Examination was used to assess the cognitive function of each participant. Logistic regression was used to evaluate the relationship between tHcy levels and cognitive function.
RESULTS: This study included 236 participants (mean age: 64.0 (SD, 7.5) years, female: 58.1%). Multivariable analyses adjusted for several potential confounders, including creatinine and cardiovascular risk factors, showed that tHcy was associated with carotid artery stenosis (CAS). After adjusting for CAS, ICAS and several potential confounders, the association between tHcy level and low cognitive function remained significant (odds ratio: 1.09, 95% confidence interval: (1.03, 1.16), P = 0.032) .
CONCLUSION: Increased serum tHcy level was associated with low cognitive function independent of asymptomatic intracranial and carotid arteries stenoses.

Citation: Wang X, et al. Homocysteine Associated With Low Cognitive Function Independent of Asymptomatic Intracranial and Carotid Arteries Stenoses in Chinese Elderly Patients: An Outpatient-Based Cross-Sectional Study. Homocysteine Associated With Low Cognitive Function Independent of Asymptomatic Intracranial and Carotid Arteries Stenoses in Chinese Elderly Patients: An Outpatient-Based Cross-Sectional Study. 2022; 35:302-308. doi: 10.1177/0891988720988914

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/33504251/
