PMID: 33505270
Title: A Case of Successful Intravenous Thrombolysis Bridged with Repeated Endovascular Treatment in Acute Basilar Artery Occlusion.

Abstract: Acute basilar artery occlusion (BAO) is a neurological emergency that has a high rate of mortality and poor functional outcome. Endovascular therapy (ET) is the gold standard therapy for large vessel occlusion stroke of the anterior circulation. Whether ET can also be effectively and safely performed in early recurrent large vessel occlusion, especially in BAO, is unclear. We describe a case of successful recanalization and independent functional outcome of a BAO patient treated with intravenous thrombolysis combined with repeated ET. The patients was a 32-year-old man with a history of heavy smoking and drinking who presented to the Emergency Department with dizziness and hypertension, and progressed over the next 13 h to left hemiparesis and mild dysarthria with an NIHSS score of 7. CT angiography demonstrated occlusion of the proximal basilar artery (BA). Intravenous alteplase was given followed by ET. The first intervention failed and over the next 8 h, the patient's NIHSS score increased to 12. A second attempt with balloon angioplasty managed to reconstitute arterial blood flow with a severe residual stenosis of the proximal BA. Subsequently, the patient progressed into deep coma with reocclusion of the BA demonstrated on transcranial Doppler. A third intervention with emergent stenting resulted in complete recanalization of the BA and excellent neurological recovery. This patient received three endovascular treatments within 24 h due to reocclusion of the BA and achieved good outcomes. In conclusion, repeated ET for early recurrent BAO is feasible in carefully selected patients.

Citation: Pham BN, et al. A Case of Successful Intravenous Thrombolysis Bridged with Repeated Endovascular Treatment in Acute Basilar Artery Occlusion. A Case of Successful Intravenous Thrombolysis Bridged with Repeated Endovascular Treatment in Acute Basilar Artery Occlusion. 2020; 12:34-40. doi: 10.1159/000507752

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/33505270/
