PMID: 33505816
Title: Anesthetic Considerations for Transcarotid Artery Revascularization: Experience and Review of Forty Cases From a Single Medical Center.

Abstract: Transcarotid artery revascularization (TCAR) procedure is a novel hybrid surgical modality in treating carotid stenosis. Understanding the various steps of the TCAR and the unique challenges involved in the anesthetic management is essential for the successful conduct of anesthesia. In this article, we discuss the overview of the key issues relevant to the anesthetic management and strategies from our experience. We present the data on anesthetic management and outcomes of 40 patients who underwent TCAR procedure at our institute between June 2018 and February 2020. Electronic medical records were retrospectively reviewed and relevant demographic, clinical, and laboratory data were collected. All our patients had general anesthesia with an endotracheal tube utilizing standard American Society of Anesthesiology (ASA) monitoring along with intra-arterial blood pressure monitoring and cerebral oximetry. The mean age of our patients was 73.6 ± 7.58 years. Fifteen (37.5 %) patients had significant co-morbidities, thus classified as ASA 4 and 10 (25%) patients were on at least three antihypertensives (beta-blockers, calcium channel blockers, angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors, loop diuretics, thiazides). Thirty-four (85%) patients were considered to have symptomatic carotid stenosis which was the predominant indication for the TCAR procedure. Patients who had episodes of transient ischemic attack (TIA) or a cerebrovascular accident (CVA) documented by a computerized tomography (CT) scan of the brain and/or residual weakness are considered symptomatic. Thirty-six (90%) of our patients received a bolus dose of 0.2 - 0.4 mg of glycopyrrolate for maintaining heart rate of around 70 beats per minute (BPM) and 38 (95%) received phenylephrine infusion during the carotid clamp to maintain blood pressure between 140 and 160 mm Hg systolic or at patients' baseline. Twenty-one (52.5%) patients needed antihypertensives such as hydralazine ( 10-20 mg) or beta-blockers such as labetalol (10-20 mg) at the time of emergence from anesthesia to mitigate hemodynamic response during extubation. The mean blood loss was 74 ml ± 33.19 ml, and none of our patients received blood transfusion during the perioperative period. The mean duration of anesthesia was 202.6 ± 27.85 minutes, and the mean length of hospital stay was 1.5 ± 0.97 days. A thorough preoperative examination with specific attention to the preoperative neurological deficits and cardiopulmonary reserve is important for the meticulous management of intraoperative hemodynamics. Intraoperative administration of glycopyrrolate and the use of vasopressors to maintain optimal hemodynamics to ensure cerebral perfusion during the perioperative period should be considered. The anesthetic goals of carotid revascularization (TCAR) are perioperative hemodynamic stability and early evaluation of neurological status in the immediate postoperative period.

Citation: Ankam A, et al. Anesthetic Considerations for Transcarotid Artery Revascularization: Experience and Review of Forty Cases From a Single Medical Center. Anesthetic Considerations for Transcarotid Artery Revascularization: Experience and Review of Forty Cases From a Single Medical Center. 2020; 12:e12250. doi: 10.7759/cureus.12250

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/33505816/
