PMID: 33508562
Title: Computational fluid dynamics simulation of time-resolved blood flow in Budd-Chiari syndrome with inferior vena cava stenosis and its implication for postoperative efficacy assessment.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: This study aimed to adopt computational fluid dynamics to simulate the blood flow dynamics in inferior vena cava stenosis based on time-dependent patient-specific models of Budd-Chiari syndrome as well as a normal model. It could offer valuable references for a retrospective insight into the underlying mechanisms of Budd-Chiari syndrome pathogenesis as well as more accurate evaluation of postoperative efficacy.
METHODS: Three-dimensional inferior vena cava models of Budd-Chiari syndrome patient-specific (preoperative and postoperative) and normal morphology model were reconstructed as per magnetic resonance images using Simpleware. Moreover, computational fluid dynamics of time-resolved inferior vena cava blood flow were simulated using actual patient-specific measurements to reflect time-dependent flow rates.
FINDINGS: The assessment of the preoperative model revealed the dramatic variations of hemodynamic parameters of the stenotic inferior vena cava. Moreover, the comparison of the preoperative and postoperative models with the normal model as benchmark showed that postoperative hemodynamic parameters were markedly ameliorated via stenting, with the attenuation of overall velocity and wall shear stress, and the increase of pressure. However, the comparative analysis of the patient-specific simulations revealed that some postoperative hemodynamic profiles still bore some resemblance to the preoperative ones, indicating potential risks of restenosis.
INTERPRETATION: Computational fluid dynamics simulation of time-resolved blood flow could reveal the tight correlation between the hemodynamic characteristics and the pathological mechanisms of inferior vena cava stenosis. Furthermore, such time-resolved hemodynamic profiles could provide a quantitative approach to diagnosis, operative regimen and postoperative evaluation of Budd-Chiari syndrome with inferior vena cava stenosis.

Citation: Zhao Y, et al. Computational fluid dynamics simulation of time-resolved blood flow in Budd-Chiari syndrome with inferior vena cava stenosis and its implication for postoperative efficacy assessment. Computational fluid dynamics simulation of time-resolved blood flow in Budd-Chiari syndrome with inferior vena cava stenosis and its implication for postoperative efficacy assessment. 2021; 82:105256. doi: 10.1016/j.clinbiomech.2020.105256

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/33508562/
