PMID: 33510604
Title: A Case of UDP-Galactose 4'-Epimerase Deficiency Associated with Dyshematopoiesis and Atrioventricular Valve Malformations: An Exceptional Clinical Phenotype Explained by Altered N-Glycosylation with Relative Preservation of the Leloir Pathway.

Abstract: The generalized form of UDP-galactose-4'-epimerase (GALE) deficiency causes hypotonia, failure to thrive, cataracts, and liver failure. Individuals with non-generalized forms may remain asymptomatic with uncertain long-term outcomes. We report a 2-year-old child compound heterozygous for GALE p.R51W/p.G237D who never developed symptoms of classic galactosemia but has a history of congenital combined mitral and tricuspid valve malformation and pyloric stenosis, and presented with pancytopenia. Variant pathogenicity was supported by predictive computational tools and decreased GALE activity measured in erythrocytes. GALE function extends to the biosynthesis of glycans by epimerization of UDP-N-acetyl-galactosamine and -glucosamine. Interrogation of the Gene Ontology consortium database revealed several putative proteins involved in normal hematopoiesis and atrioventricular valve morphogenesis, requiring N-glycosylation for adequate functionality. We hypothesize that by limiting substrate supply due to GALE deficiency, alterations in N-linked protein glycosylation can explain the patient's phenotype.

Citation: Febres-Aldana CA, et al. A Case of UDP-Galactose 4'-Epimerase Deficiency Associated with Dyshematopoiesis and Atrioventricular Valve Malformations: An Exceptional Clinical Phenotype Explained by Altered N-Glycosylation with Relative Preservation of the Leloir Pathway. A Case of UDP-Galactose 4'-Epimerase Deficiency Associated with Dyshematopoiesis and Atrioventricular Valve Malformations: An Exceptional Clinical Phenotype Explained by Altered N-Glycosylation with Relative Preservation of the Leloir Pathway. 2020; 11:320-329. doi: 10.1159/000511343

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/33510604/
