PMID: 33544792
Title: Clinical-morphological profiles of esophageal carcinoma's main types.

Abstract: AIM: The purpose of the study was to define and then to compare particularly the morphological profiles of the main morphological types of esophageal carcinoma (EC).
PATIENTS, MATERIALS AND METHODS: The studied group included 46 operated EC patients. Few parameters were clinical (gender and age). The rest of them described both gross and histological features of the entire group and of the two main histological types of carcinoma (lesion' site, lateral extension, lesion dimensions, gross aspect, and histological type, and tumor grade, and stage). Stratification scales of cases were defined according to each parameter in order to compare the data and a statistical apparatus [Student's t-test and χ² (chi-squared) test] was used.
RESULTS: The studied tumors were encountered mostly in mature adult and elderly men, usually in the lower segments of the esophagus. Many of them had between five and ten cm in the long diameter and produced stenosis. Most of them had infiltrating appearance combined often with protruding or∕and ulcerated aspects. Usually, the tumors were poorly differentiated and in stage III. The two main histological types of EC showed different morphological profiles. Data from the literature revealed sometimes wide ranges of variation for the studied morphological parameters. Our results were within these ranges of variation.
CONCLUSIONS: ECs proved to be aggressive and late diagnosed tumors in general, with distinct morphological and behavioral profiles for the two main histological types. Comparisons with literature data confirmed many of our observations regarding the clinical and morphological aspects of both ECs as a whole and its histological types.

Citation: Cameniţă D, et al. Clinical-morphological profiles of esophageal carcinoma's main types. Clinical-morphological profiles of esophageal carcinoma's main types. 2020; 61:407-422. doi: 10.47162/RJME.61.2.10

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/33544792/
