PMID: 33551726
Title: Alterations of Iron Level in the Bilateral Basal Ganglia Region in Patients With Middle Cerebral Artery Occlusion.

Abstract: Background and Purpose: The purpose of this study was to explore the changes of iron level using quantitative susceptibility mapping (QSM) in the bilateral basal ganglia region in middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAO) patients with long-term ischemia. Methods: Twenty-seven healthy controls and nine patients with MCAO were recruited, and their QSM images were obtained. The bilateral caudate nucleus (Cd), putamen (Pt), and globus pallidus (Gp) were selected as the regions of interest (ROIs). Susceptibility values of bilateral ROIs were calculated and compared between the affected side and unaffected side in patients with MCAO and between patients with MCAO and healthy controls. In addition, receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curves were performed to evaluate the diagnostic capability of susceptibility values in differentiating healthy controls and patients with MCAO by the area under the curve (AUC). Results: The susceptibility values of bilateral Cd were asymmetric in healthy controls; however, this asymmetry disappeared in patients with MCAO. In addition, compared with healthy controls, the average susceptibility values of the bilateral Pt in patients with MCAO were increased (P &lt; 0.05), and the average susceptibility value of the bilateral Gp was decreased (P &lt; 0.05). ROC curves showed that the susceptibility values of the Pt and Gp had a larger AUC (AUC = 0.700 and 0.889, respectively). Conclusion: As measured by QSM, the iron levels of the bilateral basal ganglia region were significantly changed in patients with MCAO. Iron dyshomeostasis in the basal ganglia region might be involved in the pathophysiological process of middle cerebral artery stenosis and occlusion. These findings may provide a novel insight to profoundly address the pathophysiological mechanisms of MCAO.

Citation: Du L, et al. Alterations of Iron Level in the Bilateral Basal Ganglia Region in Patients With Middle Cerebral Artery Occlusion. Alterations of Iron Level in the Bilateral Basal Ganglia Region in Patients With Middle Cerebral Artery Occlusion. 2020; 14:608058. doi: 10.3389/fnins.2020.608058

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/33551726/
