PMID: 33555771
Title: N/A

Abstract: None: The prevalence of valvular heart disease is around 2.5% in industrialized countries. Valvular heart disease can occur in any of the four valves in the heart (pulmonary, mitral, aortic, and/or tricuspid valve) and can involve stiffening of the valve (stenosis), prolapse, or leaking (regurgitation). These diseases can be congenital (developing at or before birth) or acquired (e.g. due to degeneration with age or an infection). Symptoms may vary according to the severity of damage to the valve and its function, and include chest pain or tightness, palpitations, shortness of breath, and fatigue, among others. In some patients, surgery may be required to repair or replace the heart valves. One approach is to replace the damaged valve via open heart surgery, with a mechanical or biological valve (bioprosthesis). An alternative approach, which is indicated and funded in Canada for the aortic valve, is to use a transcatheter procedure such as transcatheter aortic valve implantation (TAVI). Here, the replacement valve is inserted using a catheter instead of via open heart surgery. In recent years, transcatheter interventions have also been used off-label for tricuspid and mitral valves, where aortic valves are implanted in damaged tricuspid or mitral valves. Among valvular heart disease interventions, those performed in the aortic position are by far the most common, followed by procedures in the mitral position, then tricuspid position. In patients who initially received a mitral or tricuspid bioprosthesis, the bioprosthesis may degenerate over time, prompting consideration of additional repair or replacement. These patients can represent a challenge for further interventions in general, because they are often considered high risk for another surgery due to multiple co-morbidities or left ventricular dysfunction or pulmonary hypertension, or because there is limited evidence supporting surgical intervention of a degenerated mitral or tricuspid valve relative to medical management.,– A less invasive approach such as transcatheter valve replacement, may be an attractive option in situations where there is a mitral or tricuspid bioprosthesis which has degenerated. One approach is to insert an aortic valve in an existing degenerated mitral or tricuspid bioprosthesis using a catheter, which is termed a valve-in-valve (VIV or ViV) intervention. The United States Food and Drug Administration approved use of the Edwards Sapien 3 valve for mitral VIV procedures in 2017, which is indicated “for patients with symptomatic heart disease due to failure of a previously placed bioprosthetic aortic or mitral valve whose risk of death or severe complications from repeat surgery is high or greater.” Health Canada also approved the Edwards Sapien 3 in 2019 for “symptomatic heart disease due to a failing mitral surgical bioprosthetic valve (stenosed, insufficient, or combined) who are judged by a heart team to be at high or greater risk for open surgical therapy.” However, there remains limited clinical experience with this technique and its use has been regarded as being at an early stage. Therefore, it would be helpful to understand what evidence exists surrounding clinical effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of transcatheter aortic valves for degenerated mitral or tricuspid bioprostheses. Such evidence would be useful in informing whether this technique can be more widely adopted in a Canadian context, or whether more research is needed to inform decision and policy-making. The objective of this report is to summarize the evidence regarding the clinical effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of transcatheter aortic valve implantation for degenerated mitral or tricuspid bioprostheses.

Citation: N/A

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/33555771/
