PMID: 33575493
Title: Morphometric Analysis of Subaxial Cervical Spine with Myelopathy: A Comparison with the Normal Population.

Abstract: INTRODUCTION: The specific morphology and differences between patients with cervical spondylotic myelopathy (CSM) and those with normal spines remain unclear. This study aimed to evaluate and determine the features of cervical spine morphology on reconstructive CT.
METHODS: We investigated that axial reconstructive CT scans of the cervical spine at C3 to C7 were obtained from 309 individuals (97 CSM patients and 212 controls). Those of the optimal pedicle diameter were selected, and the following parameters were measured: (a) sagittal diameter of the spinal canal (b) transverse diameter of the spinal canal, (c) pedicle width, (d) lateral mass thickness, (e) transverse diameter of the foramen, (f) sagittal diameter of the vertebral body, and (g) transverse diameter of the vertebral body. The following ratios were calculated using these values: the sagittal-transverse ratio and the canal-body ratio.
RESULTS: Most parameters differed significantly between the sexes in both groups. The parameters without the mean sagittal diameter of the spinal canal were significantly larger in men than in women. However, the mean sagittal diameter of the spinal canal did not differ significantly between the sexes in CSM patients. The sagittal-transverse ratio and canal-body ratio were significantly smaller in the CSM patients at all levels. According to relative operating characteristic curves of the sagittal diameter of the spinal canal, sagittal-transverse ratio, and canal-body ratio, the sensitivity from C3 to C7 in both sexes was > 60% at the threshold. In men, the specificity from C3 to C7 was also >60% at the threshold.
CONCLUSIONS: The morphometry of the sagittal diameter of the spinal canal, sagittal-transverse ratio, and canal-body ratio on axial reconstructive CT images appears useful for distinguishing cervical spinal canal stenosis involving myelopathy.

Citation: Toki S, et al. Morphometric Analysis of Subaxial Cervical Spine with Myelopathy: A Comparison with the Normal Population. Morphometric Analysis of Subaxial Cervical Spine with Myelopathy: A Comparison with the Normal Population. 2021; 5:34-40. doi: 10.22603/ssrr.2020-0061

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/33575493/
