PMID: 33583013
Title: Pedicle Subtraction Osteotomy for Deformity Correction in the Upper Cervical Spine: A Technical Note.

Abstract: BACKGROUND:  Kyphosis is the most common deformity of the cervical spine leading to development of severe disabilities. In case of fused kyphosis, surgical treatment can be demanding and often requires multiple-step procedures for adequate correction. We present a technique of single-stage pedicle subtraction osteotomy (PSO) of C3 to treat a patient with fused kyphosis of C2 and C3 causing spinal stenosis with subsequent myelopathy.
METHODS:  A 53-year-old man presented with progressive myelopathy not able to walk with 6/18 points on the modified Japanese Orthopedic Association scale. Horizontal gaze was lost due to cervical kyphosis. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) revealed a cervical kyphosis causing stenosis, cord compression, and kinking; computed tomography (CT) showed substantial anterior and posterior fusion of C2 and C3.
RESULTS:  Surgery included decompression via laminectomy of C2 to C6 in combination with PSO of C3 and additional dorsal instrumentation of C2 to C6. Cervical spinal alignment was corrected, as the C2-C4 Cobb angle was reduced from 48.9 to 20.6 degrees. Horizontal gaze was restored. Postoperative MRI demonstrated full decompression of the cord without kinking of the vertebral arteries. No complications were noted. The patient recovered well with restoration of his ability to walk.
CONCLUSION:  Single-stage pedicle subtraction closing wedge osteotomy in the upper cervical spine, although a demanding surgical procedure, is an alternative treatment option in selected cases of fused and severe cervical kyphosis. In contrast to multiple-step approaches, the single-stage procedure could reduce operating time and may thus decrease complications.

Citation: Al Barim B, et al. Pedicle Subtraction Osteotomy for Deformity Correction in the Upper Cervical Spine: A Technical Note. Pedicle Subtraction Osteotomy for Deformity Correction in the Upper Cervical Spine: A Technical Note. 2022; 83:69-74. doi: 10.1055/s-0040-1721003

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/33583013/
