PMID: 33598017
Title: Female gender and the clinical and periprocedural profile and clinical outcomes of transcatheter aortic valve implantation: experiences of a tertiary Polish centre.

Abstract: INTRODUCTION: Despite the establishment of multiple factors influencing short- and mid-term outcomes in patients treated with transcatheter aortic valve implantation (TAVI), the real-world data on the association between gender and outcomes after TAVI remain conflicting.
AIM: To evaluate the association of female gender with the clinical and periprocedural characteristics along with in-hospital, short- and medium-term outcomes of patients treated with TAVI in comparison with male patients.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: Data from the prospective, single-centre registry of consecutive patients with severe AS referred for TAVI from 26 November 2008 to 31 December 2018 were analysed retrospectively. The study population comprised 275 patients who were divided by gender. The primary endpoint of the study was all-cause mortality at 1 year.
RESULTS: Women constituted 132 (48.0%) of the overall population. Women were significantly older, but had a significantly higher left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) and had less frequently undergone coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG) before TAVI. The implantation success rate was comparable between genders, but women less frequently required implantation of a pacemaker after TAVI, although they more frequently required blood transfusion due to severe bleeding. The primary endpoint occurred in 13.6% of women and 7.7% of men (p = 0.12).
CONCLUSIONS: Despite advanced age and prevalence of cardiovascular risk factors, the overall short- and medium-term mortality in patients treated with TAVI in our analysis of the real-world population remains relatively low. Although women seemed to have a slightly better clinical baseline profile, their in-hospital, 30-day, 6-month and 12-month outcomes did not differ significantly from the male patients.

Citation: Wilczek K, et al. Female gender and the clinical and periprocedural profile and clinical outcomes of transcatheter aortic valve implantation: experiences of a tertiary Polish centre. Female gender and the clinical and periprocedural profile and clinical outcomes of transcatheter aortic valve implantation: experiences of a tertiary Polish centre. 2020; 16:436-443. doi: 10.5114/aic.2020.101769

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/33598017/
