PMID: 33605312
Title: Non-surgical management of vesicoureteral junction obstruction: a case report.

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: To report the case of a pediatric patient with bilateral hydronephrosis due to vesicoureteral junction obstruction (VUJO) that was treated non-surgically and to discuss the approach of this anomaly.
CASE DESCRIPTION: A 25-month-old boy was referred without complaints for consultation due to prenatal ultrasound showing kidneys with cysts. He was under antibiotic prophylaxis. No family history of kidney disease and/or inherited disorders was reported. Renal ultrasound (RUS) at 2 days of life showed bilateral hydronephrosis, thus ruling out the possibility of kidney cystic disease. Dynamic renal scintigraphy (DTPA) showed marked retention of the marker in the pyelocaliceal system bilaterally, with little response to diuretic drug. He was maintained under antibiotic prophylaxis, when a new RUS showed bilateral ureteral dilatation, abrupt stenosis in the ureterovesical transition region (0.2 cm caliber), moderate bilateral hydronephrosis, and slight renal cortical thickness, confirming the diagnosis of VUJO. At 2 years and 10 months of age, DTPA showed hydronephrosis and ureteral stasis in both kidneys secondary to stenosis at the vesicoureteral junction (VUJ) level, with preservation of kidney function and slow degree of emptying. We opted for a non-surgical approach. RUS at 10 years of age showed significant improvement of all parameters, with ureteral transverse diameter of 9 mm, preserved VUJ, and age-appropriate bilateral kidney development.
COMMENTS: VUJO is a major cause of prenatal hydronephrosis and can trigger a deterioration of kidney function. Its treatment is still controversial but should take into account the importance of clinical follow-up and serial imaging evaluation.

Citation: Kimura TY, et al. Non-surgical management of vesicoureteral junction obstruction: a case report. Non-surgical management of vesicoureteral junction obstruction: a case report. 2022; 44:296-300. doi: 10.1590/2175-8239-JBN-2020-0152

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/33605312/
