PMID: 33603287
Title: Conversion of prior univentricular repairs to septated circulation: Case selection, challenges, and outcomes.

Abstract: OBJECTIVES: Complex congenital heart defects that present earlier in life are sometimes channelled in the single ventricle pathway, because of anatomical or logistic challenges involved in biventricular correction. Given the long-term functional and survival advantage, and with the surgeons' improved understanding of the cardiac anatomy, we have consciously explored the feasibility of a biventricular repair in these patients when they presented later for Fontan completion. We present a single institution's 10-year experience in achieving biventricular septation of prior univentricular repairs, the technical and physiological challenges and the surgical outcomes.
METHODS: Between June 2010 and December 2019, 246 patients were channelized in the single ventricle pathway, of which 32 patients were identified as potential biventricular candidates at the time of evaluation for Fontan palliation, considering their anatomic feasibility. The surgical technique involves routing of the left ventricle to the aorta across the ventricular septal defect, ensuring an adequate sized right ventricular cavity, establishing right ventricle-pulmonary artery continuity and taking down the Glenn shunt with rerouting of the superior vena cava to the right atrium. This is a retrospective study where we reviewed the unique physiological and surgical characteristics of this subset of patients and analysed their surgical outcomes and complications.
RESULTS: Biventricular conversion was achieved in all cases except in 3 patients, who had the Glenn shunt retained leading to a one and a half ventricle repair. The average age of the patients was 4.9 years of whom 18 were male. The average cardiopulmonary bypass time was 371 min with an average cross clamp time of 162 min. There was one mortality in a patient with corrected transposition of great arteries (c-TGA) with extensive arterio-venous malformations (AVMs). At a median follow-up of 60 months, all patients remained symptom free except two with NYHA II symptoms, one being treated for branch pulmonary artery stenosis with balloon dilatation and the other with multiple AVMs who needed coil closure. One patient with branch pulmonary artery (PA) stenosis required balloon dilatation and stent placement.
CONCLUSION: The possibility of achieving the surgical goal in this unique subset of patients evolves with the progressive experience of the congenital heart surgeon. Case selection is a crucial aspect in achieving the desired outcome, and this 'borderline' substrate is often recognized at the time of evaluation for the Fontan completion. A comprehensive preoperative imaging and planning helps in achieving the surgical septation and reconnection to achieve the desired physiological circulation. Though technically challenging, the surgery has excellent short- and mid-term outcomes as evidenced by our 10-year experience.

Citation: Sunil GS, et al. Conversion of prior univentricular repairs to septated circulation: Case selection, challenges, and outcomes. Conversion of prior univentricular repairs to septated circulation: Case selection, challenges, and outcomes. 2021; 37:91-103. doi: 10.1007/s12055-020-00938-9

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/33603287/
