PMID: 33629008
Title: Wild-type transthyretin amyloid cardiomyopathy complicated by spinal canal stenosis, carpal tunnel syndrome, and rotator cuff tears: a case report.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Wild-type transthyretin amyloid cardiomyopathy (ATTRwt-CM) is receiving increasing attention due to the availability of novel treatment options. Carpal tunnel syndrome (CTS) and lumbar spinal canal stenosis are known early symptoms of transthyretin (TTR) amyloidosis preceding the cardiac involvement and are considered as 'Red Flags' for transthyretin amyloid cardiomyopathy (ATTR-CM).
CASE SUMMARY: A 67-year-old man with a history of lumbar spinal canal stenosis for the last 10 years, right rotator cuff tears for the last 4 years, and bilateral CTS for the last 1 year was scheduled for orthopaedic surgery for lumbar spinal canal stenosis. Investigations revealed severe left ventricular hypertrophy and hypertroponinaemia, which were suggestive of cardiac amyloidosis. Cardiac magnetic resonance imaging and 99mTc-labelled pyrophosphate scintigraphy demonstrated positive findings for ATTR-CM. Transthyretin deposition was found in both the myocardium and the yellow ligamentum excised during surgery. There was no transthyretin mutation on genetic testing. The final diagnosis was ATTRwt-CM.
DISCUSSION: Transthyretin deposition in the ligaments or tendons has been observed in a number of patients with CTS, spinal canal stenosis, and rotator cuff tears. These orthopaedic diseases are predictive for the future occurrence of ATTR-CM. In addition, the coexistence of these multiple diseases might strongly predict ATTR-CM. This knowledge needs to be shared with orthopaedicians and cardiologists for the early diagnosis of ATTR-CM.

Citation: Takashio S, et al. Wild-type transthyretin amyloid cardiomyopathy complicated by spinal canal stenosis, carpal tunnel syndrome, and rotator cuff tears: a case report. Wild-type transthyretin amyloid cardiomyopathy complicated by spinal canal stenosis, carpal tunnel syndrome, and rotator cuff tears: a case report. 2020; 4:1-6. doi: 10.1093/ehjcr/ytaa329

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/33629008/
