PMID: 33628995
Title: Aortic dissection during transoesophageal echocardiography: a case report.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Transoesophageal echocardiography (TOE) is a safe and useful tool. In our case, we are presenting a rare case of a patient with aortic dissection during TOE procedure.
CASE SUMMARY: A 79-year-old woman was referred to our hospital for recurrent paroxysmal atrial fibrillation (AF) with palpitation. Pre-procedural cardiac computed tomography (CT) showed slight dilated ascending aorta (maximum diameter: 40 mm). We decided to perform catheter ablation (CA) for AF, and recommended TOE before the CA because she had a CHADS<sub>2</sub> score of 4. On the day before the CA, TOE was performed. Her physical examinations at the time of TOE procedure were unremarkable. At 3 min after probe insertion, there was no abnormal finding of the ascending aorta. At 5 min after the insertion, TOE showed ascending aortic dissection without pericardial effusion. After waking, she had severe back pain and underwent a contrast-enhanced CT. Computed tomography demonstrated Stanford type A aortic dissection extending from the aortic root to the bifurcation of common iliac arteries, and tight stenosis in the right coronary artery (maximum diameter; 49 mm). The patient underwent a replacement of the ascending aorta, and a coronary artery bypass graft surgery for the right coronary artery.
DISCUSSION: Transoesophageal echocardiography would have to be performed under sufficient sedation with continuous blood pressure monitoring in patients who have risk factors of aortic dissection. The risk-benefit of TOE must be considered before a decision is made. Depending on the situation, another modality instead of TOE might be required.

Citation: Hoshina R, et al. Aortic dissection during transoesophageal echocardiography: a case report. Aortic dissection during transoesophageal echocardiography: a case report. 2020; 4:1-5. doi: 10.1093/ehjcr/ytaa333

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/33628995/
