PMID: 33637374
Title: Expression and function of fibroblast growth factor 1 in the hypertrophied ligamentum flavum of lumbar spinal stenosis.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Fibrosis is one of the main pathologies caused by hypertrophy of the ligamentum flavum (LF), which leads to lumbar spinal stenosis (LSS). The fibroblast growth factor (FGF) family is a key mediator of fibrosis. However, acidic fibroblast growth factor (FGF-1) expression and function are not well understood in LF. This study sought to evaluate FGF-1 expression in the hypertrophied and non-hypertrophied human LF, and to investigate its function using primary human LF cell cultures.
METHODS: We obtained hypertrophied lumbar LF from LSS patients and non-hypertrophied lumbar LF from control patients during surgery. Immunohistochemistry and qPCR were performed to evaluate FGF-1 expression in LF tissue. The function of FGF-1 and transforming growth factor beta 1 (TGF-β1) was also investigated using primary LF cell culture. The effects on cell morphology and cell proliferation were examined using a crystal violet staining assay and MTT assay, respectively. Immunocytochemistry, western blotting, and qPCR were performed to evaluate the effect of FGF-1 on TGF-β1-induced myofibroblast differentiation and fibrosis.
RESULTS: Immunohistochemistry and qPCR showed higher FGF-1 expression in hypertrophied LF compared to control LF. Crystal violet staining and MTT assay revealed that FGF-1 decreases LF cell size and inhibits their proliferation in a dose-dependent manner, whereas TGF-β1 increases cell size and promotes proliferation. Immunocytochemistry and western blotting further demonstrated that TGF-β1 increases, while FGF-1 decreases, α-SMA expression in LF cells. Moreover, FGF-1 also caused downregulation of collagen type 1 and type 3 expression in LF cells.
CONCLUSION: FGF-1 is highly upregulated in the LF of LSS patients. Meanwhile, in vitro, FGF-1 exhibits antagonistic effects to TGF-β1 by inhibiting cell proliferation and decreasing LF cell size as well as the expression of fibrosis markers. These results suggest that FGF-1 has an anti-fibrotic role in the pathophysiology of LF hypertrophy.

Citation: Habibi H, et al. Expression and function of fibroblast growth factor 1 in the hypertrophied ligamentum flavum of lumbar spinal stenosis. Expression and function of fibroblast growth factor 1 in the hypertrophied ligamentum flavum of lumbar spinal stenosis. 2022; 27:299-307. doi: 10.1016/j.jos.2021.01.004

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/33637374/
