PMID: 33674231
Title: Long-term cognitive and multimodal imaging outcomes after carotid artery stenting vs intensive medication alone for severe asymptomatic carotid stenosis.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Severe carotid stenosis is associated with cognitive impairment, which may be attributed to asymptomatic microembolism and/or chronic hypoperfusion. We aim to evaluate the long-term cognitive and brain connectivity outcomes of carotid artery stenting (CAS) for asymptomatic ≥70% stenosis of the extracranial internal carotid artery (ICA).
METHODS: We conducted a non-randomized controlled study to compare intensive medical therapy alone (Med) or in combination with carotid artery stenting for the composite vascular events, neuropsychological, and multimodal magnetic resonance perfusion imaging and diffusion tensor imaging outcomes.
RESULTS: Sixty-nine patients were followed for a mean of 2.3 years (31 Med, 38 CAS) and 11 patients had composite vascular events of all-cause death, ischemic stroke, or myocardial infarction (6 Med vs 5 CAS). Forty-six asymptomatic subjects completed neuropsychological and multimodality imaging follow-ups (23 Med, 23 CAS). Compared to the Med group, the CAS group had a modest improvement of 12-item delayed verbal memory (8.9 ± 2.4 to 9.8 ± 2.7 vs 9.0 ± 2.1 to 8.9 ± 2.3, p = 0.04), but not in global cognition, attention or executive function, which was associated with increased structural connectivity of fractional anisotropy at the ipsilateral deep white matter. Importantly, the memory improvement was correlated with the perfusion increment at the ipsilateral middle cerebral artery territory.
CONCLUSION: For asymptomatic extracranial carotid steno-occlusion, successful carotid revascularization in addition to intensive medical treatment may potentially benefit cognitive reserve and connectivity strength which are partly attributed to restoration of non-critical hypoperfusion.

Citation: Lin CJ, et al. Long-term cognitive and multimodal imaging outcomes after carotid artery stenting vs intensive medication alone for severe asymptomatic carotid stenosis. Long-term cognitive and multimodal imaging outcomes after carotid artery stenting vs intensive medication alone for severe asymptomatic carotid stenosis. 2022; 121:134-143. doi: 10.1016/j.jfma.2021.02.007

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/33674231/
