PMID: 33689024
Title: Feasibility and Safety of Office-Based Transnasal Balloon Dilation for Neopharyngeal and Proximal Esophageal Strictures in Patients with a History of Head and Neck Carcinoma.

Abstract: The aim of this study was to assess feasibility and safety of office-based transnasal balloon dilation of neopharyngeal and proximal esophageal strictures in patients with a history of head and neck carcinoma. The secondary objective was to explore its effectiveness. This prospective case series included patients previously treated for head and neck carcinoma with neopharyngeal or proximal esophageal strictures who underwent transnasal balloon dilation under topical anesthesia. The target dilation diameter was 15 mm; if necessary dilation procedures were repeated every 2-4 weeks until this target was reached. Completion rates, adverse events, and patient experiences measured by VAS scores (0 = no complaints - 10 = unbearable complaints), dysphagia scores based on food consistency (0 = no dysphagia - 5 = unable to swallow liquids/saliva), and self-reported changes in swallowing symptoms were recorded. Follow-up was 2 months. Twenty-six procedures were performed in 12 patients, with a completion rate of 92%. One minor complication occurred, i.e. an infection of the dilation site. Tolerance of the procedure was good (median VAS = 2). The dysphagia score improved after a mean of 2.2 procedures per patient, however not significantly. Eight patients reported improvement in dysphagia, of whom 3 had recurrence of dysphagia within 1 month post-treatment. Office-based transnasal balloon dilation is a feasible and safe in-office procedure which is well-tolerated by patients. The dilations can improve dysphagia, although effects might be transient.

Citation: Schimberg AS, et al. Feasibility and Safety of Office-Based Transnasal Balloon Dilation for Neopharyngeal and Proximal Esophageal Strictures in Patients with a History of Head and Neck Carcinoma. Feasibility and Safety of Office-Based Transnasal Balloon Dilation for Neopharyngeal and Proximal Esophageal Strictures in Patients with a History of Head and Neck Carcinoma. 2022; 37:93-98. doi: 10.1007/s00455-021-10253-z

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/33689024/
