PMID: 33693193
Title: Diagnostic Performance and Pressure Stability of a Novel Myocardial Ischemic Diagnostic Index　- The Intracoronary-Electrocardiogram-Triggered Distal Pressure/Aortic Pressure Ratio.

Abstract: Background: We hypothesized that the intracoronary-electrocardiogram (IC-ECG)-based pressure index would be more stable and precise than the instantaneous flow reserve (iFR). We investigated the usefulness of the IC-ECG-based pressure index for diagnosing myocardial ischemia. Methods and Results: Thirty-seven consecutive patients with coronary stenosis requiring physiological assessment were enrolled in the study. iFR was measured at rest and under hyperemia in 51 and 40 lesions, respectively. The IC-ECG-triggered distal pressure (Pd)/aortic pressure (Pa) ratio (ICE-T) was defined as the mean Pd/Pa ratio in the period corresponding to the isoelectric line. The ICE-T was significantly lower than the iFR both at rest and during hyperemia (P&lt;0.00001 for both). Fluctuations in the ICE-T pressure parameters (Pd/Pa, Pa, and Pd) were significantly smaller than those of iFR both at rest and during hyperemia. The diagnostic accuracy of predicting a fractional flow reserve (FFR) ≤0.80 of the ICE-T at rest was significantly higher than that of iFR (P=0.008). Receiver operating characteristic curve analyses showed that the ICE-T predicts FFR ≤0.80 more accurately than the iFR (area under curve 0.897 vs. 0.810 for ICE-T and iFR, respectively). Conclusions: We identified the period in the IC-ECG in which resting Pd/Pa was low and constant. The IC-ECG-based algorithm may improve the accuracy of diagnosing myocardial ischemia, without increasing invasiveness, compared with pressure-dependent indices.

Citation: Nakayama M, et al. Diagnostic Performance and Pressure Stability of a Novel Myocardial Ischemic Diagnostic Index　- The Intracoronary-Electrocardiogram-Triggered Distal Pressure/Aortic Pressure Ratio. Diagnostic Performance and Pressure Stability of a Novel Myocardial Ischemic Diagnostic Index　- The Intracoronary-Electrocardiogram-Triggered Distal Pressure/Aortic Pressure Ratio. 2020; 2:665-673. doi: 10.1253/circrep.CR-20-0099

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/33693193/
