PMID: 33708711
Title: Cervical Myelopathy and Lumbar Spondylolisthesis in Elderly Patients with Diffuse Idiopathic Skeletal Hyperostosis (DISH) - A Case Series.

Abstract: INTRODUCTION: Diffuse idiopathic skeletal hyperostosis (DISH) is a non-inflammatory disease, which causes the ossification of spinal longitudinal ligaments and enthesis leads to stiffness in the affected segment of the spine and neurological deficit due to compression of spinal cord or nerve roots by osteophytes.
CASE PRESENTATION: We present three cases of DISH, presented with cervical myelopathy, lumbar spondylolisthesis, and dysphagia. All three patients had neurodeficit and radiological examination showed cord compression, canal stenosis, listhesis, and contiguous ossification in the spine with normal sacroiliac joints. The first patient had cervical myelopathy because of compression of cord by ossified posterior longitudinal ligament, which was managed with posterior laminectomy, decompression, and stabilization. The second patient had L4-L5 listhesis with canal stenosis, which was managed with decompression, instrumentation and fusion (TLIF). The third patient had cervical myelopathy due to C6-C7 listhesis and also had dysphagia because of compression of esophagus by anterior osteophytes, which was managed with removal of anterior osteophytes and anterior discectomy and fusion (ACDF). Postoperatively, all three patients recovered completely with no residual neurodeficit.
CONCLUSION: DISH can present in various ways, which depends on the site of involvement in the spine. Early surgical intervention helps in getting a better outcome in patients with neurodeficit and prevents further complications.

Citation: Mahajan NP, et al. Cervical Myelopathy and Lumbar Spondylolisthesis in Elderly Patients with Diffuse Idiopathic Skeletal Hyperostosis (DISH) - A Case Series. Cervical Myelopathy and Lumbar Spondylolisthesis in Elderly Patients with Diffuse Idiopathic Skeletal Hyperostosis (DISH) - A Case Series. 2020; 10:48-52. doi: 10.13107/jocr.2020.v10.i08.1856

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/33708711/
