PMID: 33708679
Title: Management of Metastatic Spine and Hip Alveolar Soft Part Sarcoma: Case Report and Review of Literature.

Abstract: Alveolar soft part sarcoma (ASPS) is a rare soft tissue tumor. Primary or metastatic involvement of the spine is unusual in ASPS. In most case, it is refractory to chemotherapy and radiation. Surgical resection is the most effective intervention. We report the case of a 38-year-old female having ASPS along with metastatic spine and hip involvement treated surgically as a single-stage operation, which is the first of its kind approach to our knowledge. We present the case of a 38-year-old female with simultaneous L4 pathological fracture with symptomatic lumbar canal stenosis without focal neurology and pathological fracture of neck of femur of left hip, secondary to metastatic ASPS. Since both conditions were contributing equally to her disability and demanded early intervention, they were treated simultaneously with intralesional excision of the tumor and posterior stabilization of the spine and left hip proximal femur resection and replaced it with proximal femur endoprosthesis as a single-stage operation. Postoperatively, she had significant relief of radiculopathy and left hip pain. She was mobilized out of bed on the postoperative day 1 and was discharged from hospital on the postoperative day 6. She was given chemotherapy drug sunitib postoperative. At her last follow-up, 20 months' postoperative, she was asymptomatic and was independent in terms of activities of daily living. Metastatic ASPS of the spine and hip is a rare clinical entity. Simultaneous surgical treatment of the spine and hip pathology is technically demanding. If the conditions demands, as in our case, both of them can be managed safely in a single-stage with good midterm outcome.

Citation: Shah M, et al. Management of Metastatic Spine and Hip Alveolar Soft Part Sarcoma: Case Report and Review of Literature. Management of Metastatic Spine and Hip Alveolar Soft Part Sarcoma: Case Report and Review of Literature. 2020; 15:1011-1015. doi: 10.4103/ajns.AJNS_290_20

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/33708679/
