PMID: 33719649
Title: Influence of Handgrip Strength and Paraspinal Muscles' Volume on Clinical Outcomes in the Patients With Each Sagittal Imbalance and Lumbar Spinal Stenosis.

Abstract: STUDY DESIGN: Cross-sectional study.
OBJECTIVE: To compare handgrip strength (HGS), paraspinal muscles' (PSM) volume, and their effects on clinical symptom severity between the patients with sagittal imbalance (SI) and symptomatic lumbar spinal stenosis (LSS).
METHODS: A total of 54 paired consecutive patients with SI and LSS were enrolled after propensity score matching. Preoperative HGS, cross-sectional area (CSA) of psoas (PS) and multifidus (MF) muscles, and patient-reported measures, including visual analog scale (VAS) for back/ leg pain, Oswestry Disability Index (ODI), and EuroQOL (EQ-5D) were compared between both groups. Within each SI and LSS group, patient-reported measures were compared between high and low HGS subgroups. The correlation of HGS and CSA of PSMs to patient-reported measures was evaluated.
RESULTS: There was no difference in HGS between 2 groups, however, the CSA of PS and MF muscles in SI group was significantly lower than those in LSS group. Patients with low HGS showed inferior results for ODI and EQ-5D, compared to those with high HGS subgroup in both SI and LSS groups. HGS and CSA of MF muscle were correlated with ODI in both groups.
CONCLUSIONS: There was no significant difference between the SI and LSS groups in HGS, however, PSMs' volume in SI group were significantly lower than those in LSS group. Therefore SI would be associated with loss of localized muscle mass in back area, rather than global skeletal muscle weakness. HGS and PSMs' volume were adversely associated with functional status in SI and LSS patients.

Citation: Shen F, et al. Influence of Handgrip Strength and Paraspinal Muscles' Volume on Clinical Outcomes in the Patients With Each Sagittal Imbalance and Lumbar Spinal Stenosis. Influence of Handgrip Strength and Paraspinal Muscles' Volume on Clinical Outcomes in the Patients With Each Sagittal Imbalance and Lumbar Spinal Stenosis. 2023; 13:609-616. doi: 10.1177/21925682211001871

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/33719649/
