PMID: 33720576
Title: [Vascular remodeling with violations of intracardiac hemodynamics in patients older age category, combined with the clinical-cluster, neurocognitive and biomarker heterogeneity in multifocal atherosclerosis].

Abstract: AIM: Study of the remodeling of the carotid arteries with violation of intracardiac hemodynamics in patients with MFA, and the estimation of the main parameters of dyslipidemia, apoptosis, and oxidative stress in patients with high vascular risk older age group (6175 years) in a Regional vascular center of Ufa.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Depending on the predominant lesion of the vascular pool, patients were divided into 3 clusters by the method of hierarchical analysis of categorical variables according to the clinical manifestation of atherosclerotic lesions of the heart, brain and lower limb arteries confirmed by coronary angiography, ultrasound Doppler of the main arteries of the head and lower extremities. 96 of them were IPA with a primary lesion of the heart (1st cluster), the 96 IPA with a predominance of lesions of the carotid arteries (2nd cluster), 96 patients with ischemia of lower extremities (3rd cluster). At the hospital stage, electrocardiography, echocardiography, magnetic resonance imaging of the chest and abdomen, ultrasound of the OBP and kidneys, if necessary, ultrasound of the pelvis were performed. Determination of 8-ON-deoxyguanosine, annexin-5 (An-5) and Aan-5 in blood by ELISA was performed in all patients with MFA, as well as standard biochemical screening for lipidogram examination.
RESULTS: We have found that most often in different combinations and with different degrees of severity according to our data are observed: Clinical manifestation of atherosclerotic heart disease (cluster 1) mainly due to its history in combination with stage III hypertension with increasing thickness of intima-media complex and stenosis of the right WASP, left ventricular dilatation, as well as a higher concentration of Aan-5IgMand LP-A as a risk factor for coronary heart disease, atherosclerosis, atherothrombosis. 2. Hemodynamically significant violations of the main arteries of the head in patients of the 2nd cluster mainly with acute ischemic cerebral circulation, in which there was a development of left ventricular hypertrophy with an increase in the size of the left atrium and the presence of atherosclerotic plaque of the right and left WASP. The higher prevalence of stroke was combined with a marked cognitive deficit among patients of cluster 2 with the lowest level of An-5, an increase in total cholesterol and low-density lipoprotein cholesterol. 3. The total severity of the condition in patients with hemodynamic ischemia with clinical manifestation of vascular lesions of the lower extremities was accompanied by a predominant increase in stable angina with FC2, lerish syndrome with occlusion of the iliac, superficial femoral arteries, the presence of insulin-independent type 2 diabetes, which in this group was established in 59.4% of cases, combined with a higher concentration of the marker of oxidative stress 8-ON-deoxyguanosine and hypertriglyceridemia.
CONCLUSION: The construction of a three-cluster model in patients at high vascular risk of the elderly age category showed the interaction of cardio-carotid comorbid background on the clinical diversity of systemic vascular lesions in MFA with the development of remodeling of the main arteries and disorders of intracardiac hemodynamics associated with laboratory changes in the assessment of the main parameters of dyslipidemia, apoptosis markers, oxidative stress.

Citation: Khasanov AK, et al. [Vascular remodeling with violations of intracardiac hemodynamics in patients older age category, combined with the clinical-cluster, neurocognitive and biomarker heterogeneity in multifocal atherosclerosis]. [Vascular remodeling with violations of intracardiac hemodynamics in patients older age category, combined with the clinical-cluster, neurocognitive and biomarker heterogeneity in multifocal atherosclerosis]. 2020; 92:67-74. doi: 10.26442/00403660.2020.12.200428

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/33720576/
