PMID: 33759766
Title: Short term cardiovascular risk in normotensive women after hypertensive pregnancy.

Abstract: INTRODUCTION: Hypertensive pregnancy was recognized as a risk factor of cardiovascular events. The aim of our study was to evaluate the short-term cardiovascular risk in normotensive females with previous hypertensive pregnancy.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: A prospective cohort study was conducted on 50 females with previous normotensive pregnancy and 50 females with previous hypertensive pregnancy. All patients were re-evaluated three months postpartum to be sure that they became normotensive. One year postpartum, all patients were subjected to renal function tests, urinary albumin/creatinine ratio for microalbuminuria, glycated hemoglobin, complete lipid profile, echocardiographic assessment of left ventricular mass index and carotid duplex for measurement of intimal-medial thickness, presence of carotid plaques and stenosis.
RESULTS: No significant difference between both groups regarding blood pressure level three months postpartum. No significant difference between both groups regarding serum creatinine. Patients with previous hypertensive pregnancy group had significantly higher microalbuminuria compared with previous normotensive pregnancy group (p=0.000). Serum LDL and triglycerides were significantly higher however HDL was significantly lower in those with previous hypertensive pregnancy, however all lipid profile measures were within normal range. No significant difference between both groups regarding left ventricular mass index and carotid intima-media thickness. No evidence of carotid plaques or stenosis in both groups.
CONCLUSIONS: Previous hypertensive pregnancy was associated with increased risk of microalbuminuria at short term level even after normalization of blood pressure post-partum. Longer period of follow up is required to establish the potential cardiovascular risk in these patients.

Citation: El Mokadem MO, et al. Short term cardiovascular risk in normotensive women after hypertensive pregnancy. Short term cardiovascular risk in normotensive women after hypertensive pregnancy. 2021; 38:56-62. doi: 10.1016/j.hipert.2020.09.003

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/33759766/
