PMID: 33783129
Title: Optical coherence tomography angiography changes in cardiovascular systemic diseases and risk factors: A Review.

Abstract: Cardiovascular (CV) disease (CVD) is the main cause of death around the world, and assessing a patient's CV risk factors (CVRF) can play a major role in its prevention. Since it has been shown that retinal vascular alterations may reflect several systemic processes such as CVRF, we conducted a systematic review in order to summarize which ocular microvasculature changes can be found using Optical Coherence Tomography Angiography (OCTA) in patients without ocular diseases and with systemic pathologies/conditions that affect the CV system when compared to healthy subjects. We searched on online databases, namely PubMed, Scopus, Cochrane and Web of Science, and obtained additional studies through citation tracking. Case reports and review articles were excluded. A total of 47 articles were included in our review. We describe that patients with hypertension, diabetes mellitus, kidney disease, preeclampsia, coronary artery disease, carotid artery stenosis and obstructive sleep apnoea syndrome have, in general, lower retinal and choroidal Vessel Density (VD) and Length (VL), as well as an increased foveal avascular zone area and perimeter. Additionally, several characteristics and/or conditions in healthy subjects, such as smoking status, hyper or hypoxia conditions, race, among others, are also related to ocular vascular changes and should be accounted for. We concluded that OCTA could be a useful tool to assess a patient's CV risk profile in a non-invasive way, possibly integrating the diagnostic and prognostic algorithms of the most prevalent CV diseases in the future.

Citation: Monteiro-Henriques I, et al. Optical coherence tomography angiography changes in cardiovascular systemic diseases and risk factors: A Review. Optical coherence tomography angiography changes in cardiovascular systemic diseases and risk factors: A Review. 2022; 100:e1-e15. doi: 10.1111/aos.14851

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/33783129/
