PMID: 33817262
Title: Therapeutic effects of coronary granulocyte colony-stimulating factor on rats with chronic ischemic heart disease.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: The aim of this study was to evaluate the therapeutic effects of coronary granulocyte colony-stimulating factor (G-CSF) on rats with chronic ischemic heart disease (CIHD).
METHODS: Thirty healthy rats were randomly divided into control, subcutaneous and intracoronary G-CSF injection groups (n = 10) after the CIHD model was established. Left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF), myocardial injury area, myocardial perfusion area and viable myocardium were observed by coronary angiography, dual-isotopic myocardial imaging and first-pass delayed myocardial perfusion magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) before modeling as well as 2 and 4 weeks after surgery.
RESULTS: The peak times of peripheral blood and subcutaneous G-CSF levels were 3 and 5 days after mobilization, respectively. The peripheral blood CD34+/CD133+ cell ratio of subcutaneous or intracoronary G-CSF injection group significantly exceeded that of the control group (P &lt; 0.05). The distal stenosis degrees of target lesions in subcutaneous and intracoronary G-CSF injection groups were significantly lower than that of the control group (P &lt; 0.05). Compared with the situation before mobilization, LVEF was significantly improved after 2 weeks in intracoronary and subcutaneous G-CSF injection groups (P &lt; 0.01). Their infarcted myocardial areas were reduced, the left ventricular remodeling was relieved, the percentage of viable myocardium was increased, angiogenesis was promoted and cardiomyocyte apoptosis was inhibited.
CONCLUSION: Intracoronary G-CSF injection is safe and effective as subcutaneous injection, improving the cardiac function of CIHD rats.

Citation: Ren P, et al. Therapeutic effects of coronary granulocyte colony-stimulating factor on rats with chronic ischemic heart disease. Therapeutic effects of coronary granulocyte colony-stimulating factor on rats with chronic ischemic heart disease. 2020; 15:742-752. doi: 10.1515/biol-2020-0078

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/33817262/
