PMID: 33831187
Title: Causes, pattern, predictors, and prognostic implications of new hospitalizations after transcatheter aortic valve implantation: a long-term nationwide observational study.

Abstract: AIMS: The aim of this study was to investigate the pattern, causes, and predictors of all new hospitalizations in patients who underwent transcatheter aortic valve implantation (TAVI).
METHODS AND RESULTS: The nationwide Swedish TAVI registry was merged with other mandatory healthcare registries, which enabled the analysis of all TAVI procedures, new hospital admissions, and death between the years 2008 and 2017. A total of 2821 patients underwent TAVI with a mean of 2.5 hospitalizations during a mean follow-up of 2.2 years. Hospitalizations were associated with worse prognosis. Heart failure (HF) was the most common cause of hospitalization with 19% having at least one hospitalization due to HF causing, 16% of all-cause admissions, and 50% of cardiovascular admissions. Male gender, age >90 years, high Charlson Comorbidity Index, atrial fibrillation, present neurologic disease, severe renal impairment, peripheral vascular disease, New York Heart Association class IV, mild or moderate mean aortic valve gradients, and pulmonary hypertension were associated with an increased risk for all-cause hospitalizations or death. For cardiovascular hospitalization or death, the pattern was similar, with the addition of impaired systolic left ventricular function as a predictor.
CONCLUSION: Multiple hospitalizations after TAVI are common and are often caused by HF. Reducing the rate of HF hospitalizations is important to mitigate the burden on the healthcare system due to new hospitalizations after TAVI.

Citation: Nilsson K, et al. Causes, pattern, predictors, and prognostic implications of new hospitalizations after transcatheter aortic valve implantation: a long-term nationwide observational study. Causes, pattern, predictors, and prognostic implications of new hospitalizations after transcatheter aortic valve implantation: a long-term nationwide observational study. 2022; 8:150-160. doi: 10.1093/ehjqcco/qcab026

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/33831187/
