PMID: 33842716
Title: Semi-Circumferential Decompression: Total En-Bloc Ligamentum Flavectomy to Treat Lumbar Spinal Stenosis with Two-Level Degenerative Spondylolisthesis.

Abstract: INTRODUCTION: Despite technical developments in decompression without fusion, many studies still assert that instability could be increased in patients with spinal stenosis and lumbar degenerative spondylolisthesis after spinal decompression surgery without fusion. Thus, this study aimed to describe and assess the clinical outcomes of the semi-circumferential decompression (SCD) technique used for microsurgical en-bloc total ligamentum flavectomy with preservation of the facet joint in treating patients who have lumbar spinal stenosis with two-level degenerative spondylolisthesis.
METHODS: We retrospectively analyzed the clinical and radiologic outcomes of 14 patients who had spinal stenosis with two-level Meyerding grade I degenerative spondylolisthesis. We evaluated improvements in back pain and radiating pain using a visual analogue scale (VAS) and the Oswestry Disability Index (ODI). We have also examined the occurrence of spinal instability on a radiological exam using slip percentage and slip angle.
RESULTS: The mean VAS score of back pain and radiating pain has been determined to decrease significantly from 6.7 to 3.3 and from 8.6 to 2.7, respectively. Meanwhile, the ODI score significantly improved from 27.3 preoperatively to 9.8 postoperatively. Statistically significant change was not observed in the slip percentage in both upper and lower levels. Dynamic slip percentage, which is defined as the difference in the slip percentage between flexion and extension, also did not significantly change. No statistically significant change was found in the slip angle and dynamic slip angle.
CONCLUSIONS: SCD is a recommendable procedure that can improve clinical results. This procedure does not cause spinal instability when treating patients who have spinal stenosis with two-level degenerative spondylolisthesis.

Citation: Lee YS, et al. Semi-Circumferential Decompression: Total En-Bloc Ligamentum Flavectomy to Treat Lumbar Spinal Stenosis with Two-Level Degenerative Spondylolisthesis. Semi-Circumferential Decompression: Total En-Bloc Ligamentum Flavectomy to Treat Lumbar Spinal Stenosis with Two-Level Degenerative Spondylolisthesis. 2021; 5:91-97. doi: 10.22603/ssrr.2020-0146

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/33842716/
