PMID: 33852449
Title: Cardiovascular, Brain, and Lung Involvement in a Newborn With a Novel FLNA Mutation: A Case Report and Literature Review.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Filamin A (FLNA) is an intracellular actin-binding protein, encoded by the FLNA gene, with a wide tissue expression. It is involved in several cellular functions, and extracellular matrix structuring. FLNA gene alterations lead to diseases with a wide phenotypic spectrum, such as brain periventricular nodular heterotopia (PVNH), cardiovascular abnormalities, skeletal dysplasia, and lung involvement.
CLINICAL FINDINGS: We present the case of a female infant who showed at birth aortic valve stenosis and PVNH, and subsequently developed interstitial lung disease with severe pulmonary hypertension.
PRIMARY DIAGNOSIS: The association of aortic valve dysplasia, left ventricular outflow obstruction, persistent patent ductus arteriosus, and brain heterotopic gray matter suggested a possible FLNA gene alteration. A novel heterozygous intronic variant in the FLNA gene (NM_001110556.1), c.4304-1G >A, was detected.
INTERVENTIONS: In consideration of valve morphology and severity of stenosis, the neonate was scheduled for a transcatheter aortic valvuloplasty. At 3 months of life, she developed hypoxemic respiratory failure with evidence of severe pulmonary hypertension. Inhaled nitric oxide (iNO) and milrinone on continuous infusion were started. Because of a partial response to iNO, an intravenous continuous infusion of sildenafil was introduced.
OUTCOMES: In consideration of severe clinical course and fatal outcome, the new FLNA gene mutation described in our patient seems to be associated with a loss of function of FLNA.
PRACTICE RECOMMENDATIONS: Lung and brain involvement, in association with left ventricular outflow obstruction and persistent patency of ductus arteriosus, should be considered highly suggestive of FLNA gene alterations, in a female newborn.

Citation: Meliota G, et al. Cardiovascular, Brain, and Lung Involvement in a Newborn With a Novel FLNA Mutation: A Case Report and Literature Review. Cardiovascular, Brain, and Lung Involvement in a Newborn With a Novel FLNA Mutation: A Case Report and Literature Review. 2022; 22:125-131. doi: 10.1097/ANC.0000000000000878

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/33852449/
