PMID: 33900939
Title: Neurologically Asymptomatic Lumbar Traumatic Dislocation With Vascular Compression in a Patient With Ankylosing Spondylitis: Case Report.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Ankylosing spondylitis (AS) is associated with high rates of severe thoracolumbar fractures, in many cases with neurological deficits. It is currently a point of debate as to whether the optimal surgical treatment is posterior fixation and fusion or combined approaches. Vascular injuries in this kind of fracture are a challenging issue to solve in the management of these patients.
METHODS: We are reporting the case of a 65-year-old man who presented an L4 traumatic fracture-dislocation. He had a long history of symptomatic AS. No neurological deficits were detected during the initial exploration. During the preoperative work-up, a lumbar spine computed tomography (CT) scan was taken with vascular reconstruction of the abdominal vessels. It confirmed the compression of the abdominal aorta, which had caused more than 90% stenosis. A posterior approach, an open reduction, and fixation with pedicle screws were performed, without hemodynamic or neurological changes. A postoperative angiography demonstrated a complete recovery of the vessel caliber, without contrast leaks.
RESULTS: After a 2-year follow-up, the patient was pain free and the CT scan revealed bone fusion.
CONCLUSIONS: The vascular structures involved in severe thoracolumbar fractures present a dangerous situation that should be considered in the choice of the surgical approach. The posterior approach alone may be a good option in the absence of vascular damage. However, due to risk of vessel rupture during the fracture reduction, vascular surgeons must take part in the surgery.
LEVEL OF EVIDENCE: 5.
CLINICAL RELEVANCE: The article provides help for surgeons who have to treat severe fractures in the context of ankylosing spondylitis.

Citation: Mata-Gómez J, et al. Neurologically Asymptomatic Lumbar Traumatic Dislocation With Vascular Compression in a Patient With Ankylosing Spondylitis: Case Report. Neurologically Asymptomatic Lumbar Traumatic Dislocation With Vascular Compression in a Patient With Ankylosing Spondylitis: Case Report. 2021; 14:S16-S20. doi: 10.14444/7159

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/33900939/
