PMID: 33937891
Title: Acute Hemispheric Stroke: Full Remission Following Surgical Thrombectomy.

Abstract: INTRODUCTION: Carotid occlusion because of embolisation or as a distal extension of thrombus formation in an ulcerated plaque can be the cause of a devastating stroke, caused by sudden occlusion of the internal carotid artery (ICA). Often, invasive treatments are not an option because of the limited time frame. In rare situations of acute stroke onset and admission to therapy within six hours however, aggressive recanalisation may be considered. This technical note demonstrates surgical transcatheter embolectomy of intra-extra cranial ICA by reducing inflow by placing a clamp on the common carotid artery (CCA) before puncture cranial to the clamp.
PATIENT AND TECHNIQUE: A 67 year old man was admitted as an emergency seven hours after an acute hemispheric stroke with paraplegia of his left arm and full consciousness. An immediate duplex scan showed more than 90% stenosis of the carotid bifurcation with low echolucent plaque material extending proximally up to the intracranial ICA. CT angiography confirmed the stenosis and a sub-occlusive thrombosis of the ICA up to the M1 segment of the middle cerebral artery (MCA). Because the onset of clinical symptoms was more than six hours previously, the patient was not within the clinical window for endovascular therapy. Following interdisciplinary consensus, surgical over the wire thrombectomy with endarterectomy with complete removal of the thrombus and subsequent thrombo-endarterectomy of the carotid bifurcation and bovine patch plasty was performed. The patient was discharged with statin and antiplatelet treatment on the second post-operative day with full remission of symptoms.
CONCLUSIONS: Immediate surgical transcatheter recanalisation of acute intra-extracerebral ICA thrombus with inflow reduction can be a valid procedure to improve cerebral circulation, leading to full remission of stroke symptoms.

Citation: Settembrini AM, et al. Acute Hemispheric Stroke: Full Remission Following Surgical Thrombectomy. Acute Hemispheric Stroke: Full Remission Following Surgical Thrombectomy. 2020; 47:31-34. doi: 10.1016/j.ejvsvf.2020.03.002

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/33937891/
