PMID: 33979101
Title: Risk Factors and Prevention of C5 Palsy After Anterior Cervical Decompression and Fusion: Similarity of the Pathomechanism With That After a Posterior Approach.

Abstract: STUDY DESIGN: This was a retrospective study.
OBJECTIVE: The objective of this study was to review clinical and imaging findings after anterior cervical decompression and fusion, as a basis for prevention of C5 palsy.
SUMMARY OF BACKGROUND DATA: C5 palsy is a common postoperative complication in spine surgery, but the mechanistic basis for this condition is unknown.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: The subjects were 239 patients with cervical myelopathy who underwent anterior cervical decompression and fusion including at C4-C5 disk level at our hospital from 2001 to 2018. Twelve of these patients (5.0%) had C5 palsy postoperatively. Clinical features and imaging findings were compared in patients with and without C5 palsy.
RESULTS: In patients with C5 palsy, the sagittal alignment of the cervical spine was kyphotic, the width of the C5 intervertebral foramen was narrower, and the lateral decompressed line was wider beyond the medial part of the Luschka joint. Age, sex, disease, the number of fused segments, decompression width, and anterior shift of the spinal cord did not differ significantly between patients with and without C5 palsy.
CONCLUSIONS: These results indicate that the pathomechanism of C5 palsy may be dependent on the location of the lateral decompression line, especially in patients with cervical kyphosis and a narrow C5 intervertebral foramen. Excessive lateral decompression beyond the Luchka joint might lead to C5 root kinking between the intervertebral foramen and posterior edge of vertebra. This pathomechanism may be similar in anterior and posterior approaches. To prevent C5 palsy, the medial line of the Luschka joint should be confirmed intraoperatively and decompression should be performed within the Luschka joints. Alternatively, medial foraminotomy should be used in cases needing wide decompression, such as those with massive ossification of the posterior longitudinal ligament, lateral osteophytes, and symptomatic foraminal stenosis.
LEVEL OF EVIDENCE: Level III.

Citation: Nakajima H, et al. Risk Factors and Prevention of C5 Palsy After Anterior Cervical Decompression and Fusion: Similarity of the Pathomechanism With That After a Posterior Approach. Risk Factors and Prevention of C5 Palsy After Anterior Cervical Decompression and Fusion: Similarity of the Pathomechanism With That After a Posterior Approach. 2022; 35:E274-E279. doi: 10.1097/BSD.0000000000001187

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/33979101/
