PMID: 33986108
Title: Evaluation of a novel flow diverter, the DiVeRt system, in an animal model.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Using a surgical aneurysm model, this study assessed the performance of a new flow diverter (FD), the DiVeRt, and evaluated the angiographic and histologic features at different periods after stent deployment.
METHODS: Fifteen New Zealand White rabbits were treated 3 days prior to intervention and until euthanization with dual antiplatelets. DiVeRt was implanted in bilateral carotid aneurysms (n=30) as well as in the aorta (n=15). The rate of technical success, assessment of aneurysm occlusion (measured by the O'Kelly-Marotta grading (OKM) scale), and stent patency were examined using angiography and histologic examinations in three groups at 1, 3, and 6 months follow-up (FU). In each FU group one control animal was included and treated with the XCalibur stent (n=3).
RESULTS: Overall, DiVeRt placement was successful and without apparent intraprocedural complications. In total, four stents in the carotid artery were occluded and in-stent stenosis was registered in two carotid (7%) and one aortic (6%) vessels. Complete or near complete aneurysm occlusion (OKM scale D1 and C3) was seen in 100% in the 1-month FU group, 70% in the 2-month FU group, and 100% in the 3-month FU group. Histology showed loose, organizing fibrous tissue matrix within the sac and adequate neck endothelialization in all vessels. All branches covered by the DiVeRt remained patent.
CONCLUSIONS: The DiVeRt system appears to be feasible and effective for the treatment of aneurysms with high rates of complete aneurysm occlusion, excellent vessel patency, and evidence of high biocompatibility. Occurrences of parent artery occlusion at follow-up did not result in clinical consequences.

Citation: Hufnagl C, et al. Evaluation of a novel flow diverter, the DiVeRt system, in an animal model. Evaluation of a novel flow diverter, the DiVeRt system, in an animal model. 2022; 14:384-389. doi: 10.1136/neurintsurg-2021-017430

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/33986108/
