PMID: 33992671
Title: Mast cells drive pathologic vascular lesions in Takayasu arteritis.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Takayasu arteritis (TAK) is a large vessel vasculitis resulting in artery wall remodeling with segmental stenosis and/or aneurysm formation. Mast cells (MCs) are instrumental in bridging cell injury and inflammatory response.
OBJECTIVES: This study sought to investigate the contribution of MCs on vessel permeability, angiogenesis, and fibrosis in patients with TAK.
METHODS: MC activation and their tissue expression were assessed in sera and in aorta from patients with TAK and from healthy donors (HDs). In vivo permeability was assessed using a modified Miles assay. Subconfluent cultured human umbilic vein endothelial cells and fibroblasts were used in vitro to investigate the effects of MC mediators on angiogenesis and fibrogenesis.
RESULTS: This study found increased levels of MC activation markers (histamine and indoleamine 2,3-dioxygenase) in sera of patients with TAK compared with in sera of HDs. Marked expression of MCs was shown in aortic lesions of patients with TAK compared with in those of noninflammatory aorta controls. Using Miles assay, this study showed that sera of patients with TAK significantly increased vascular permeability in vivo as compared with that of HDs. Vessel permeability was abrogated in MC-deficient mice. MCs stimulated by sera of patients with TAK supported neoangiogenesis (increased human umbilic vein endothelial cell proliferation and branches) and fibrosis by inducing increased production of fibronectin, type 1 collagen, and α-smooth muscle actin by fibroblasts as compared to MCs stimulated by sera of HD.
CONCLUSIONS: MCs are a key regulator of vascular lesions in patients with TAK and may represent a new therapeutic target in large vessel vasculitis.

Citation: Le Joncour A, et al. Mast cells drive pathologic vascular lesions in Takayasu arteritis. Mast cells drive pathologic vascular lesions in Takayasu arteritis. 2022; 149:292-301.e3. doi: 10.1016/j.jaci.2021.05.003

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/33992671/
