PMID: 34007656
Title: Management of Partial Hydatidiform Mole and Subsequent Intrauterine Adhesions: A Case Report and Literature Review.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Gestational trophoblastic disease (GTD) originates from placental tissue and is among rare human tumors that can be cured even in the presence of widespread metastases. The most common form of GTD is hydatidiform mole (HM), commonly referred to as molar pregnancy. Molar pregnancies have the potential to locally invade the uterus and metastasize and result as a result ofgestational trophoblastic neoplasia. Intrauterine adhesions (IUAs) is a condition where scar tissue develops within the uterine cavity, often following a procedure. Hysteroscopy has been established as the criterion standard for the diagnosis of IUAs, although the optimal adjuvant treatment after surgical intervention remains unclear. ‎.
CASE: A 35-year-old-female underwent suction curettage a week after the detection of a molar pregnancy. Two months later, she suffered from amenorrhea and hormonal therapy was initiated. Saline-infusion sonogram was tried and failed due to cervical stenosis. IUAs leading to scar tissue developed along with uterine polyps. Hysteroscopy successfully lysed IUAs and uterine polyps. The patient conceived two months after stopping hormonal therapy and proceeded to a pregnancy which resulted in a healthy live birth.
CONCLUSION: Although the etiology of the patient's molar pregnancy is still unknown, this report demonstrates the need to utilize hysteroscopy as a primary and early mode of treatment if IUAs are found in patients along with providing adjuvant treatment while utilizing clinical judgement in order to prevent IUAs recurrence. The patient conceived four months after the hysteroscopy resulting in a healthy live birth.

Citation: Partosh D and Hale G. Management of Partial Hydatidiform Mole and Subsequent Intrauterine Adhesions: A Case Report and Literature Review. Management of Partial Hydatidiform Mole and Subsequent Intrauterine Adhesions: A Case Report and Literature Review. 2020; 11:(unknown pages). doi: 10.24926/iip.v11i4.3445

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34007656/
