PMID: 34020900
Title: Transradial Endovascular Intervention: Results From the Radial accEss for nAvigation to Your CHosen Lesion for Peripheral Vascular Intervention (REACH PVI) Study.

Abstract: BACKGROUND/PURPOSE: The transradial approach has been proposed as an alternative to traditional transfemoral access for diagnostic and therapeutic purposes in several catheterization procedures. Historically, extended length devices for lower limb endovascular interventions have been limited. The aim of this study was to investigate the acute clinical outcomes of orbital atherectomy (OA) via transradial access (TRA) for the treatment of lower extremity peripheral artery disease (PAD).
METHODS/MATERIALS: REACH PVI was a multicenter, prospective, observational study (NCT03943160) including subjects with PAD and target lesion morphology appropriate for OA. All patients were followed post-procedure through the first standard of care follow-up visit.
RESULTS: A total of 50 patients were enrolled. In most cases the indication for intervention was disabling claudication (74.0%). Overall, 50 target lesions were treated, 92.0% of lesions were femoropopliteal and 8.0% were infrapopliteal. The average lesion length was 98.3 ± 87.5 mm and 78.0% of the lesions were severely calcified. Balloon angioplasty was performed in 98.0% of target lesions, while a stent was deployed in 16.0%. Treatment success was 98.0%; in only one case the result was sub-optimal (>30% stenosis with stent placement) and a significant dissection was reported. No serious distal embolization, serious thrombus formation or serious acute vessel closure were observed intra- or post-procedurally.
CONCLUSIONS: Transradial OA followed by percutaneous transluminal angioplasty for lower extremity PAD is feasible and demonstrates a favorable safety profile. Extended length devices such as the Extended Length Orbital Atherectomy System could further facilitate transradial endovascular procedures by increasing its spectrum of application.

Citation: Lodha A, et al. Transradial Endovascular Intervention: Results From the Radial accEss for nAvigation to Your CHosen Lesion for Peripheral Vascular Intervention (REACH PVI) Study. Transradial Endovascular Intervention: Results From the Radial accEss for nAvigation to Your CHosen Lesion for Peripheral Vascular Intervention (REACH PVI) Study. 2022; 36:115-120. doi: 10.1016/j.carrev.2021.05.011

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34020900/
