PMID: 34074208
Title: Mid thoracic intra-spinal facet cyst with lumbar canal stenosis: a rare 'double crush'.

Abstract: INTRODUCTION: Intraspinal synovial cysts occurrence causing spinal canal occlusion are mostly seen in mobile segments of the spine (lumbar and cervical). An appearance of the cyst in thoracic spine is a relatively rare occurrence. We present an interesting case of 'double crush' caused by Lumbar canal stenosis with a mid-dorsal Facet cyst.
CASE PRESENTATION: A 67-year-old woman presented with complaints of back pain with neurogenic claudication with significant loss of touch sensation and motor power of MRC grade 3/5 in lower extremities bilaterally. However, patient was hyperreflexic with Babinski sign positive. She was unable to perform tandem walking test and complained of instability. MRI of lumbar spine revealed lumbar canal stenosis. However, in view of the UMN signs, an MRI of the dorsal spine was done. It revealed an extradural, well-delineated lesion along the dorsal aspect of spine at T6-7 level. Thus the patient had a 'double crush' due to the FC along with lumbar canal stenosis.
CLINICAL FINDINGS CORRELATED WITH THE IMAGING: Two teams simultaneously operated the 2 pathologies and T6-7 laminectomy along with left sided TLIF at L4-5 level was performed. Presently she is asymptomatic for back pain, claudication distance has improved to 800 m.
CONCLUSION: Our case reiterates the importance of thorough clinical examination to avoid missing a diagnosis. Our case is the first in literature to report a 'double crush' due to a proximal dorsal FC and distal LCS. Both the pathologies were tackled in a single setting by two operating teams with a good functional outcome.

Citation: Mallepally AR, et al. Mid thoracic intra-spinal facet cyst with lumbar canal stenosis: a rare 'double crush'. Mid thoracic intra-spinal facet cyst with lumbar canal stenosis: a rare 'double crush'. 2023; 133:567-573. doi: 10.1080/00207454.2021.1938034

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34074208/
