PMID: 34089850
Title: Biomarkers for the Prediction and Diagnosis of Fibrostenosing Crohn's Disease: A Systematic Review.

Abstract: BACKGROUND AND AIMS: Intestinal strictures are a common complication of Crohn's disease (CD). Biomarkers of intestinal strictures would assist in their prediction, diagnosis, and monitoring. Herein we provide a comprehensive systematic review of studies assessing biomarkers that may predict or diagnose CD-associated strictures.
METHODS: We performed a systematic review of PubMed, EMBASE, ISI Web of Science, Cochrane Library, and Scopus to identify citations pertaining to biomarkers of intestinal fibrosis through July 6, 2020, that used a reference standard of full-thickness histopathology or cross-sectional imaging or endoscopy. Studies were categorized based on the type of biomarker they evaluated (serum, genetic, histopathologic, or fecal).
RESULTS: Thirty-five distinct biomarkers from 3 major groups were identified: serum (20 markers), genetic (9 markers), and histopathology (6 markers). Promising markers include cartilage oligomeric matrix protein, hepatocyte growth factor activator, and lower levels of microRNA-19-3p (area under the curves were 0.805, 0.738, and 0.67, respectively), and multiple anti-flagellin antibodies (A4-Fla2 [odds ratio, 3.41], anti Fla-X [odds ratio, 2.95], and anti-CBir1 [multiple]). Substantial heterogeneity was observed and none of the markers had undergone formal validation. Specific limitations to acceptance of these markers included failure to use a standardized definition of stricturing disease, lack of specificity, and insufficient relevance to the pathogenesis of intestinal strictures or incomplete knowledge regarding their operating properties.
CONCLUSIONS: There is a lack of well-defined studies on biomarkers of intestinal stricture. Development of reliable and accurate biomarkers of stricture is a research priority. Biomarkers can support the clinical management of CD patients and aid in the stratification and monitoring of patients during clinical trials of future antifibrotic drug candidates.

Citation: Steiner CA, et al. Biomarkers for the Prediction and Diagnosis of Fibrostenosing Crohn's Disease: A Systematic Review. Biomarkers for the Prediction and Diagnosis of Fibrostenosing Crohn's Disease: A Systematic Review. 2022; 20:817-846.e10. doi: 10.1016/j.cgh.2021.05.054

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34089850/
