PMID: 34098814
Title: Impact of iliac arterial calcification on procedure success and long-term outcomes among patients undergoing endovascular intervention.

Abstract: OBJECTIVES: Vascular calcification is a well-known phenomenon and affects coronary and carotid arteries as well as other arterial beds. Presence of arterial calcification is associated with major adverse events in patients undergoing percutaneous coronary artery or carotid artery intervention. Even though there is a clear association between worse outcome and coronary-carotid calcification, there is no research that interrogated the relationship between iliac arterial calcification and clinical outcomes because of lack of data. Therefore, in this study, we aimed to investigate the impact of iliac arterial calcification on procedure success rates and long-term outcomes among patients undergoing endovascular intervention.
METHODS: The records of 453 consecutive patients who underwent endovascular intervention due to symptomatic peripheral artery disease were analyzed. Patients were divided into two groups based on the presence or absence of heavy calcification of iliac arteries. For each group, technical aspects of procedures and subsequent clinical outcomes were analyzed.
RESULTS: According to our study, the rate of restenosis following endovascular intervention at 6 and 12 months were similar between two groups. On the other hand, long-term restenosis was significantly higher in patients with heavy calcification of iliac arteries as compared to patients with low calcification on iliac arteries (32.2% vs. 12.8%, p &lt; 0.05).
CONCLUSIONS: Our data showed that there was a strong association between heavy calcification of iliac arteries and long-term restenosis in patients undergoing endovascular intervention.

Citation: Tasbulak O, et al. Impact of iliac arterial calcification on procedure success and long-term outcomes among patients undergoing endovascular intervention. Impact of iliac arterial calcification on procedure success and long-term outcomes among patients undergoing endovascular intervention. 2022; 30:490-499. doi: 10.1177/17085381211020958

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34098814/
