PMID: 34108304
Title: Advances in Myocardial Perfusion MR Imaging: Physiological Implications, the Importance of Quantitative Analysis, and Impact on Patient Care in Coronary Artery Disease.

Abstract: Stress myocardial perfusion imaging (MPI) is the preferred test in patients with intermediate-to-high clinical likelihood of coronary artery disease (CAD) and can be used as a gatekeeper to avoid unnecessary revascularization. Cardiac magnetic resonance (CMR) has a number of favorable characteristics, including: (1) high spatial resolution that can delineate subendocardial ischemia; (2) comprehensive assessment of morphology, global and regional cardiac functions, tissue characterization, and coronary artery stenosis; and (3) no radiation exposure to patients. According to meta-analysis studies, the diagnostic accuracy of perfusion CMR is comparable to positron emission tomography (PET) and perfusion CT, and is better than single-photon emission CT (SPECT) when fractional flow reserve (FFR) is used as a reference standard. In addition, stress CMR has an excellent prognostic value. One meta-analysis study demonstrated the annual event rate of cardiovascular death or non-fatal myocardial infarction was 4.9% and 0.8%, respectively, in patients with positive and negative stress CMR. Quantitative assessment of perfusion CMR not only allows the objective evaluation of regional ischemia but also provides insights into the pathophysiology of microvascular disease and diffuse subclinical atherosclerosis. For accurate quantification of myocardial perfusion, saturation correction of arterial input function is important. There are two major approaches for saturation correction, one is a dual-bolus method and the other is a dual-sequence method. Absolute quantitative mapping with myocardial perfusion CMR has good accuracy in detecting coronary microvascular dysfunction. Flow measurement in the coronary sinus (CS) with phase contrast cine CMR is an alternative approach to quantify global coronary flow reserve (CFR). The measurement of global CFR by quantitative analysis of perfusion CMR or flow measurement in the CS permits assessment of microvascular disease and diffuse subclinical atherosclerosis, which may provide improved prediction of future event risk in patients with suspected or known CAD. Multi-institutional studies to validate the diagnostic and prognostic values of quantitative perfusion CMR approaches are required.

Citation: Sakuma H and Ishida M. Advances in Myocardial Perfusion MR Imaging: Physiological Implications, the Importance of Quantitative Analysis, and Impact on Patient Care in Coronary Artery Disease. Advances in Myocardial Perfusion MR Imaging: Physiological Implications, the Importance of Quantitative Analysis, and Impact on Patient Care in Coronary Artery Disease. 2022; 21:195-211. doi: 10.2463/mrms.rev.2021-0033

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34108304/
