PMID: 34112030
Title: The use of near-infrared spectroscopy in the diagnosis of peripheral artery disease: A systematic review.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Peripheral arterial disease is a stenosis or occlusion of peripheral arteries that results in compromised blood flow and muscle ischemia. The available diagnostic methods are mostly used to measure and visualize blood flow and are not useful in the evaluation of perfusion, especially in diabetic patients, which is now considered to be a research priority by most of the vascular societies around the world as this is still a relatively poorly studied phenomenon.
OBJECTIVE: The aim of this review is to explore the clinical significance of muscle tissue oxygenation monitoring in lower-extremity peripheral artery disease diagnosis using the near-infrared spectroscopy method.
METHODS: A systematic search in PubMed, CINAHL, and Cochrane databases was performed to identify clinical near-infrared spectroscopy (NIRS) studies in English and Russian, published until September 2019, involving muscle tissue oxygenation in peripheral arterial disease (PAD). The manuscripts were reviewed by two researchers independently and scored on the quality of the research using MINORS criteria.
RESULTS: After screening 443 manuscripts, 23 studies (n = 1580) were included. NIRS-evaluated recovery time seems to be more accurate than ankle-brachial index in diabetic patients to differentiate between moderate and severe claudication. Consistent findings across all the included studies showed that both the oxygenation and deoxygenation rates as well as the recovery times varied from patient to patient and therefore were not suitable for standardization.
CONCLUSIONS: The clinical relevance of routine use of NIRS to diagnose PAD is unproven; therefore, its use is not currently part of standard-of-care for patients with PAD since the absolute values seem to vary significantly, depending on the outside conditions. More data need to be provided on the possible use of NIRS monitoring intraoperatively where the conditions can be more controlled.

Citation: Baltrūnas T, et al. The use of near-infrared spectroscopy in the diagnosis of peripheral artery disease: A systematic review. The use of near-infrared spectroscopy in the diagnosis of peripheral artery disease: A systematic review. 2022; 30:715-727. doi: 10.1177/17085381211025174

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34112030/
