PMID: 34120242
Title: Immune-inflammatory, coagulation, adhesion, and imaging biomarkers combined in machine learning models improve the prediction of death 1 year after ischemic stroke.

Abstract: Some clinical, imaging, and laboratory biomarkers have been identified as predictors of prognosis of acute ischemic stroke (IS). The aim of this study was to evaluate the prognostic validity of a combination of clinical, imaging, and laboratory biomarkers in predicting 1-year mortality of IS. We evaluated 103 patients with IS within 24 h of their hospital admission and assessed demographic data, IS severity using the National Institutes of Health Stroke Scale (NIHSS), carotid intima-media thickness (cIMT), and degree of stenosis, as well as laboratory variables including immune-inflammatory, coagulation, and endothelial dysfunction biomarkers. The IS patients were categorized as survivors and non-survivors 1 year after admission. Non-survivors showed higher NIHSS and cIMT values, lower antithrombin, Protein C, platelet counts, and albumin, and higher Factor VIII, von Willebrand Factor (vWF), white blood cells, tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-α, interleukin (IL)-10, high-sensitivity C-reactive protein (hsCRP), and vascular cellular adhesion molecule 1 (VCAM-1) than survivors. Neural network models separated non-survivors from survivors using NIHSS, cIMT, age, IL-6, TNF-α, hsCRP, Protein C, Protein S, vWF, and platelet endothelial cell adhesion molecule 1 (PECAM-1) with an area under the receiving operating characteristics curve (AUC/ROC) of 0.975, cross-validated accuracy of 93.3%, sensitivity of 100% and specificity of 85.7%. In conclusion, imaging, immune-inflammatory, and coagulation biomarkers add predictive information to the NIHSS clinical score and these biomarkers in combination may act as predictors of 1-year mortality after IS. An early prediction of IS outcome is important for personalized therapeutic strategies that may improve the outcome of IS.

Citation: Lehmann ALCF, et al. Immune-inflammatory, coagulation, adhesion, and imaging biomarkers combined in machine learning models improve the prediction of death 1 year after ischemic stroke. Immune-inflammatory, coagulation, adhesion, and imaging biomarkers combined in machine learning models improve the prediction of death 1 year after ischemic stroke. 2022; 22:111-123. doi: 10.1007/s10238-021-00732-w

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34120242/
