PMID: 34136042
Title: Bilateral translaminar osseous-channel assisted percutaneous full-endoscopic ligamentectomy decompression for thoracic myelopathy due to ossification of the ligamentum flavum: a technical note.

Abstract: INTRODUCTION: A variety of surgical procedures have been introduced to treat patients with thoracic myelopathy (TM) caused by ossification of the ligamentum flavum (OLF). However, they are accompanied by significant trauma and risk, and their surgical outcomes are not always satisfactory.
AIM: To describe a bilateral translaminar osseous-channel assisted posterior percutaneous full-endoscopic ligamentectomy decompression (p-PELD) technique as a novel minimally invasive procedure for treating patients with TM due to OLF.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: A 51-year-old female patient with persistent thoracolumbar back pain and progressive numbness in the bilateral lower extremities for 2 years underwent percutaneous vertebroplasty (PVP) for T11 osteoporotic compression fractures (OCF) in a regional hospital one week prior to hospitalization. TM caused by canal stenosis and dorsal spinal cord compression at T10/11 secondary to OLF and an OCF at T11 were diagnosed based on clinical presentations and radiologic examinations. After bilateral p-PELD for TM was performed at T10/11, the result was confirmed based on postoperative radiographic and clinical results.
RESULTS: The bilateral OLF was completely removed by the p-PELD technique. No complications were encountered, and her symptoms were sufficiently improved after surgery. The VAS score was 6 points preoperatively and decreased to 0 points at the last follow-up (24 months). The modified Japanese Orthopaedic Association (mJOA) score improved from 2 points preoperatively to 10 points at the final follow-up.
CONCLUSIONS: As a minimally invasive technique, the bilateral translaminar osseous-channel assisted p-PELD procedure provided precise and sufficient decompression for the treatment of OLF-related TM.

Citation: Xin Z, et al. Bilateral translaminar osseous-channel assisted percutaneous full-endoscopic ligamentectomy decompression for thoracic myelopathy due to ossification of the ligamentum flavum: a technical note. Bilateral translaminar osseous-channel assisted percutaneous full-endoscopic ligamentectomy decompression for thoracic myelopathy due to ossification of the ligamentum flavum: a technical note. 2021; 16:429-441. doi: 10.5114/wiitm.2020.100719

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34136042/
