PMID: 34176110
Title: Evaluation of the MANTA Vascular Closure Device in Transfemoral TAVI.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: The MANTA vascular closure device (VCD) is a novel collagen plug-based VCD for large bore arteriotomies. The current literature regarding complication rates of this device is quite variable and mostly limited to relatively small case series.
METHODS: This study is retrospective analysis of the MANTA VCD-related main access site complications according to Valve Academic Research Consortium-2 (VARC-2) criteria during the hospital stay. Particular attention was paid to the detailed analysis of multislice computed tomography with regard to the anatomy of the access vessel and the puncture site itself.
RESULTS: A total of 524 patients underwent transfemoral transcatheter aortic valve implantation (TF TAVI) including the use of the MANTA device (18F) for percutaneous vascular closure. A group of 22 patients was excluded from the study due to incomplete imaging data. During the study period, we observed 28 major (5.6%) and five minor (1.0%) MANTA device-related vascular complications. There was no patient death related to these adverse events. Female gender, vessel angulation at the puncture site, and at least moderate calcification of the dorsal vessel segment were identified as independent predictors for major complications.
CONCLUSIONS: The MANTA device is a feasible option for vascular closure of large bore arteriotomies in patients undergoing TF TAVI or other percutaneous transfemoral interventions. Furthermore, we have identified novel predictors for device failure/complications that should be taken into account for selection of the appropriate closure device. To our knowledge, this report is one of the largest case series analyzing the use of the MANTA VCD.

Citation: Kmiec L, et al. Evaluation of the MANTA Vascular Closure Device in Transfemoral TAVI. Evaluation of the MANTA Vascular Closure Device in Transfemoral TAVI. 2023; 71:84-93. doi: 10.1055/s-0041-1730972

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34176110/
