PMID: 34219517
Title: Pre-emptive or reactive treatment, angioplasty or stent-graft? The outcome for interventions for venous stenosis in early-cannulation arteriovenous grafts.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Early-cannulation arteriovenous grafts (ecAVG) have good initial patency, but frequent episodes of reintervention for venous stenosis (VS) and thrombosis limit their use. Stent grafts (SG) have shown promise in reducing re-interventions and improving functional patency for dysfunctional ecAVG and recurrent VS. There is little data on the impact of stent grafts as the first elective procedure for VS. The aim of this study was to determine firstly, if treating VS whilst asymptomatic has a better outcome than treating after presentation with thrombosis; and secondly, to determine the best initial treatment for asymptomatic VS: SG or angioplasty.
METHODS: A retrospective study was performed of 259 ecAVG with a sutured anastomosis. The case-mix and outcomes of 153 who presented with VS was analysed by presentation (elective at surveillance or emergency following thrombosis), and then for only elective patients, by treatment (SG vs angioplasty).
RESULTS: There was no significant difference in case-mix and time to presentation by mode of presentation (100 elective and 53 with thrombosis) other than a higher rate of pro-thrombotic disorders in thrombosed ecAVG. Thrombosed ecAVG had poorer outcomes with increased re-intervention rates and thrombosis in the following year, and reduced long-term functional patency. In patients presenting electively, primary SG rather than angioplasty led to significantly reduced thrombosis rates, a longer time to re-intervention in the following year, and superior long-term functional patency. The use of SG was the same in both groups. Both the mode of presentation and the type of intervention performed were independently predictive of a poorer subsequent functional patency.
CONCLUSIONS: Primary elective stent-grafting may be the optimal strategy to reducing maintenance costs with ecAVG.

Citation: Kingsmore DB, et al. Pre-emptive or reactive treatment, angioplasty or stent-graft? The outcome for interventions for venous stenosis in early-cannulation arteriovenous grafts. Pre-emptive or reactive treatment, angioplasty or stent-graft? The outcome for interventions for venous stenosis in early-cannulation arteriovenous grafts. 2023; 24:253-260. doi: 10.1177/11297298211029413

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34219517/
