PMID: 34224883
Title: Superior Ophthalmic Vein Flow Patterns as a Marker of Venous Sinus Stenosis and Hypertension in Idiopathic Intracranial Hypertension: A Case of Emergent Transverse Sinus Stenting as Treatment of Fulminant Idiopathic Intracranial Hypertension.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Fulminant idiopathic intracranial hypertension (IIH) can cause rapid vision loss. Transverse sinus stenosis is a finding commonly associated with IIH, and transverse sinus stenting has been used to rapidly reduce intracranial pressure and improve visual symptoms. Our objective was to describe a case of immediate alteration in reversed superior ophthalmic vein (SOV) flow in a fulminant IIH patient who underwent venous sinus stenting.
METHODS: All charts, imaging, and notes spanning from the initial presentation to the post-intervention follow-up were reviewed and summarized for inclusion.
RESULTS: A 24-year-old woman presented with several weeks of severe headaches and progressive vision loss. She was found to have severe papilledema and the opening pressure on lumbar puncture (LP) was 70 mm Hg. Computed tomography (CT) and magnetic resonance imaging demonstrated findings consistent with elevated intracranial pressure, and CT venography revealed stenosis of the right transverse sinus. She underwent an uncomplicated diagnostic cerebral angiogram, right venous sinus manometry, and right transverse to sigmoid sinus stenting procedure. Prior to deployment of the stent, a trans-stenotic pressure gradient of 12 mm Hg was observed within the right transverse-sigmoid junction, and flow through the bilateral SOVs was retrograde. Following stent placement, the pressure gradient normalized, and SOV flow was bidirectional. She subjectively reported improved vision, and there was improving papilledema. Repeat LP yielded an opening pressure of 21.6 mm Hg.
CONCLUSIONS: This case demonstrates reversed SOV flow should be considered an indicator of severe venous sinus stenosis, and restoration to normal or near normal state following stenting for IIH is likely indicative of procedural success.

Citation: Mugge L, et al. Superior Ophthalmic Vein Flow Patterns as a Marker of Venous Sinus Stenosis and Hypertension in Idiopathic Intracranial Hypertension: A Case of Emergent Transverse Sinus Stenting as Treatment of Fulminant Idiopathic Intracranial Hypertension. Superior Ophthalmic Vein Flow Patterns as a Marker of Venous Sinus Stenosis and Hypertension in Idiopathic Intracranial Hypertension: A Case of Emergent Transverse Sinus Stenting as Treatment of Fulminant Idiopathic Intracranial Hypertension. 2022; 161:170-178. doi: 10.1016/j.wneu.2021.06.126

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34224883/
