PMID: 34229876
Title: Management and clinical outcomes of congenital esophageal stenosis in pediatric patients: Experience of a tertiary referral center.

Abstract: PURPOSE: This study aimed to retrospectively investigate congenital esophageal stenosis (CES) cases managed at our institution using a non-aggressive strategy based on a step-up approach from esophageal balloon dilatations to surgery.
METHODS: Patients' charts with CES managed in a tertiary pediatric surgery department were retrospectively evaluated. Demographic characteristics, clinical features, pH-monitoring, imaging, and esophagoscopy results were recorded together with their treatments and outcomes.
RESULTS: Nineteen patients, confirmed with radiologic and endoscopic investigations, were managed. Complete symptom resolution was achieved in 14 patients by a median of five (2-15) recurrent esophageal balloon dilatations lasting for 7.5 (2-108) months. Two more patients, after 7 and 15 dilatations, had mild dysphagia, not interfering with their daily living. One patient, in whom the initial dilatation attempt with 3 atm was unsuccessful, and two patients with persistent symptoms and growth retardation despite ongoing dilatation treatment, underwent surgery. After 48 (12-132) months of follow-up, 17 patients were symptom-free.
CONCLUSION: Conservative treatment with esophageal balloon dilatations is an efficient and reliable modality that can be used as a first-line treatment in CES. Surgical treatment option should be used when dilatation attempt is unsuccessful, or symptoms and growth retardation persist despite dilatation treatment.

Citation: Kılıç ŞS and Serdar İskit H. Management and clinical outcomes of congenital esophageal stenosis in pediatric patients: Experience of a tertiary referral center. Management and clinical outcomes of congenital esophageal stenosis in pediatric patients: Experience of a tertiary referral center. 2022; 57:518-525. doi: 10.1016/j.jpedsurg.2021.06.006

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34229876/
