PMID: 34233846
Title: Prevalence of pre-existing factors causing spinal cord compression: Is there a difference between patients suffering from cervical spinal cord injury with and without bone injury?

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Recently, the prevalence of elderly patients suffering from cervical spinal cord injury (CSCI) without bone injury has been increasing in various countries. Pre-existing factors causing spinal cord compression, such as ossification of the posterior longitudinal ligament (OPLL), can increase the risk of CSCI without bone injury. However, no study has compared the prevalence of pre-existing factors between CSCI with and without bone injury. This study aimed to compare the prevalence of pre-existing factors between CSCI with and without bone injury.
METHODS: In 168 consecutive patients with CSCI, pre-existing factors including OPLL, posterior spur of the vertebral body, developmental stenosis, disc bulge and calcification of yellow ligament (CYL) were evaluated on imaging studies. The prevalence of each type of pre-existing factors was compared between patients with and without bone injury.
RESULTS: The prevalence of pre-existing factors in patients without bone injury (86%) was significantly higher than in those with bone injury (20%) (P < 0.001; odds ratio, 23.9). The most common pre-existing factor was OPLL followed by developmental stenosis, posterior spur, disc bulge and CYL in both groups. OPLL, development stenosis and posterior spur were significantly more common in patients without bone injury compared to those with bone injury (P < 0.01).
CONCLUSIONS: Prevalence of pre-existing factors, such as OPLL, development stenosis and posterior spur was significantly higher in patients without bone injury than in those with bone injury. Thus, these pre-existing factors might be a potential risk of CSCI without bone injury.

Citation: Handa K, et al. Prevalence of pre-existing factors causing spinal cord compression: Is there a difference between patients suffering from cervical spinal cord injury with and without bone injury?. Prevalence of pre-existing factors causing spinal cord compression: Is there a difference between patients suffering from cervical spinal cord injury with and without bone injury?. 2022; 27:971-976. doi: 10.1016/j.jos.2021.06.004

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34233846/
