PMID: 34233127
Title: Percutaneous glue embolization of arteriovenous fistula of in situ saphenous vein bypass graft: Case report and literature review.

Abstract: OBJECTIVES: Arteriovenous fistulas (AVFs) of an in situ saphenous vein bypass can be managed surgically or through endovascular coil embolization. The complications associated with the surgical wounds required for side branch ligature can be minimized through selective vein ligature and interrupted small incisions, but endovascular methods are time-consuming and limited by vein size. In this case report, we describe percutaneous ultrasound (US)-guided balloon-assisted direct glue injection as an alternative treatment strategy for AVF closure.
METHODS: We treated a patient with a delayed AVF in a femoral-popliteal in situ saphenous vein bypass. The patient came to our attention for the recurrence of chronic limb-threatening ischemia (CTLI) 4 years after the initial bypass creation. Ultrasound and computed tomography angiography (CTA) showed a double tandem graft in significant stenosis below an AVF connected with the deep venous system. Treatment included percutaneous angioplasty of the bypass stenosis and contemporary AVF closure via ultrasound-guided glue injection.
RESULTS: We successfully performed endovascular angioplasty with a drug-eluting balloon of the bypass stenosis and ultrasound-guided fistula embolization with cyanoacrylate Glubran 2. Angiography after the procedure showed bypass graft patency, no residual stenosis, and complete closure of the AVF. Results were confirmed with US.
CONCLUSIONS: Percutaneous embolization using glue could be a useful technique for AVF closure. It is a minimally invasive method that reduces the need for skin incisions during in situ saphenous grafting or endovascular revascularization.

Citation: Bertagna G, et al. Percutaneous glue embolization of arteriovenous fistula of in situ saphenous vein bypass graft: Case report and literature review. Percutaneous glue embolization of arteriovenous fistula of in situ saphenous vein bypass graft: Case report and literature review. 2022; 30:759-763. doi: 10.1177/17085381211032044

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34233127/
