PMID: 34240276
Title: The clinical and radiological cerebrovascular abnormalities associated with renovascular hypertension in children: a systematic review.

Abstract: Renovascular disease is an important secondary cause of hypertension in childhood. In this cohort, many may have undiagnosed cerebrovascular disease, and some children present acutely with cerebrovascular complications. However, these associations are yet to be defined in the literature.A systematic review of clinical and radiological abnormalities associated with renovascular hypertension in the global pediatric (< 18 years) population. The MEDLINE, Embase, and Google Scholar databases were searched, from database inception to 26 January 2021. Primary articles were unrestricted by study design and geographical location but were limited to those published in English.A total of 303 individuals (median age: 7.6 years [range 10 days-17.9 years]; M:F, 174:129) from 34 studies were included, across 13 countries. Twenty-seven individual cases were published for children with coexisting renovascular hypertension and cerebrovascular disease. Most children had bilateral renal artery stenosis, secondary to fibromuscular dysplasia and had coexisting occlusive cerebrovascular disease. The majority presented with neurological symptoms, and cerebral complication ranged from asymptomatic cerebrovascular stenosis to acute stroke and posterior reversible encephalopathy syndrome. The location or underlying etiology of the renovascular disease did not predict the location or extent of the cerebrovascular disease. The evidence from the cohort studies was limited, as none specifically established a cohort of children with coexisting disease. Furthermore, the conclusions drawn were subjected to considerable bias from the treating clinicians.A prospective cohort of children with renovascular hypertension and cerebrovascular complications should be established so the long-term prognosis and impact of treatment may be better understood.

Citation: Mudalige NL, et al. The clinical and radiological cerebrovascular abnormalities associated with renovascular hypertension in children: a systematic review. The clinical and radiological cerebrovascular abnormalities associated with renovascular hypertension in children: a systematic review. 2022; 37:49-59. doi: 10.1007/s00467-021-05165-x

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34240276/
