PMID: 34247683
Title: Incidence and risk factor of vocal cord paralysis following slide tracheoplasty for congenital tracheal stenosis: a retrospective observational study.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Slide tracheoplasty for congenital tracheal stenosis (CTS) has been shown to improve post-operative outcomes, but the incidence and risk factors of vocal cord paralysis (VCP) following slide tracheoplasty remain unclear. This study aimed to review our experience of slide tracheoplasty for CTS with a focus on post-operative VCP.
METHODS: Twenty-eight patients, who underwent tracheal reconstruction with or without cardiovascular repair at Kobe Children's Hospital between June, 2016 and March, 2020 were enrolled in this retrospective observational study. They were divided into two groups based on the presence of a pulmonary artery sling (PA sling). Perioperative variables were compared between the two groups.
RESULTS: Twenty-one of the 28 patients underwent concomitant repair for associated cardiovascular anomalies, including 15 patients with PA sling. The overall incidence of VCP following slide tracheoplasty was 28.6%. The incidences of VCP were 46.7% in patients with CTS and PA sling, which were 14.3% in CTS patients without cardiovascular anomalies. The only risk factor associated with VCP following slide tracheoplasty was a concomitant repair for PA sling. Post-operatively, the duration of nasogastric tube feeding in patients with VCP was significantly longer than that in patients without VCP.
CONCLUSIONS: The incidence of VCP following slide tracheoplasty for CTS was high, especially in concomitant repair cases for PA sling. Routine screening and evaluation of VCP soon after post-operative extubation is required for its appropriate management.

Citation: Kaneko N and Hasegawa T. Incidence and risk factor of vocal cord paralysis following slide tracheoplasty for congenital tracheal stenosis: a retrospective observational study. Incidence and risk factor of vocal cord paralysis following slide tracheoplasty for congenital tracheal stenosis: a retrospective observational study. 2022; 32:579-583. doi: 10.1017/S1047951121002663

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34247683/
