PMID: 34256612
Title: First report of intravascular ultrasound-guided intravascular lithotripsy to treat an underexpanded stent in the superficial femoral artery.

Abstract: BACKGROUND/OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the safety and utility of a new in Europe intravascular ultrasound (IVUS) catheter in a case of peripheral arterial disease caused by in-stent restenosis of the superficial femoral artery.
METHOD: Pre-therapeutic computed tomographic angiography identified severe stent restenosis related to device underexpansion, which was caused by an underlying eccentric severely calcified stenosis leading to suboptimal device deployment. The OptiCross 18 (30 MHz Peripheral Imaging Catheter, Boston Scientific, USA) is a short rail imaging catheter. It consists of two main assemblies: The imaging core is composed of a hi-torque, flexible, rotating drive cable with a radial looking 30 MHz ultrasonic transducer at the distal tip. An electro-mechanical connector interface at the proximal end of the catheter makes the connection to the Motordrive Unit (MDU5 PLUSTM) Instrument. The MDU5 PLUS-catheter interface consists of an integrated mechanical drive socket and electrical connection.
RESULTS: The use of the IVUS-guided imaging revealed in-stent restenosis, fracture, and protrusion of the calcified plaque in the stent and confirmed the preoperative computed tomography angiography which showed stent compression. Use of intravascular litotripsy catheter (intravascular lithotripsy Shockwave Medical, Santa Clara, California) and drug coated balloon led to improvement in stent expansion, having minimal patent diameter of 5.77 mm. The patient's subsequent clinical course was uneventful, and clinically had palpable pulses in the foot and ankle-brachial index of 1.
CONCLUSIONS: Whether acoustic pulse application might affect device structure in the long term remains to be determined, use of the novel IVUS system demonstrated excellent visibility of the etiology of the in-stent restenosis improving the perioperative diagnostic modalities of suboptimal endovascular outcome.

Citation: Donas KP, et al. First report of intravascular ultrasound-guided intravascular lithotripsy to treat an underexpanded stent in the superficial femoral artery. First report of intravascular ultrasound-guided intravascular lithotripsy to treat an underexpanded stent in the superficial femoral artery. 2022; 30:856-858. doi: 10.1177/17085381211032761

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34256612/
