PMID: 34253069
Title: Endoscopic Resection and Mucosal Reconstitution With Epidermal Grafting: A Pilot Study in Idiopathic Subglottic Stenosis.

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: To describe technical aspects and surgical outcomes of endoscopic resection and mucosal reconstitution with epidermal grafting (ie, the Maddern procedure) in the treatment of idiopathic subglottic stenosis.
STUDY DESIGN: Medical record abstraction.
SETTING: Johns Hopkins Hospital.
METHODS: Retrospective series of 9 adults with idiopathic subglottic stenosis who underwent the Maddern procedure by a single surgeon over a 5-year period. Prespecified outcomes included (1) perioperative outcomes (Clavien-Dindo grade 4/5 complications, need for staged tracheostomy, hospital length of stay), (2) postoperative outcomes (peak expiratory flow rate [PEFR], need for subsequent airway surgery, tracheostomy at follow-up), and (3) patient-reported quality-of-life outcomes (Clinical COPD Questionnaire, Voice Handicap Index-10, Eating Assessment Tool-10, and 12-Item Short Form Version 2). Wilcoxon matched-pairs signed rank test and Kaplan-Meier analysis were performed.
RESULTS: There were no Clavien-Dindo grade 4/5 complications; 2 patients required unplanned staged tracheostomy; and the median length of stay was 3 days. Following endoscopic resection and stent removal, a median of 2 laser resurfacing procedures were required. Two patients developed recurrent stenosis requiring cricotracheal resection (CTR). There were significant improvements in PEFR, Clinical COPD Questionnaire, and Voice Handicap Index-10, without significant difference in Eating Assessment Tool-10. The 12-Item Short Form Version 2 approximated the population norm. Kaplan-Meier analysis demonstrated significant improvement in time to surgery after the final laser resurfacing.
CONCLUSION: The Maddern procedure has a low complication rate and offers durable physiologic improvement in PEFR, limiting need for additional procedures. Risks included need for CTR salvage, temporary tracheostomy, phlegm accumulation, and laryngospasm. It is a surgical option for patients with short dilation intervals who prefer to avoid the risks of CTR.

Citation: Davis RJ, et al. Endoscopic Resection and Mucosal Reconstitution With Epidermal Grafting: A Pilot Study in Idiopathic Subglottic Stenosis. Endoscopic Resection and Mucosal Reconstitution With Epidermal Grafting: A Pilot Study in Idiopathic Subglottic Stenosis. 2022; 166:917-926. doi: 10.1177/01945998211028163

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34253069/
