PMID: 34263613
Title: Nasogastric administration of osimertinib suspension for an epidermal growth factor receptor-mutated lung cancer causing an esophageal stricture: case report.

Abstract: An esophageal stricture is an abnormal esophageal narrowing, usually caused by esophageal diseases and rarely by lung cancer. They cause malnutrition, performance status (PS) deterioration, and difficulty in the oral administration of antitumor drug tablets. A 78-year-old female patient with lung adenocarcinoma, harboring an epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR)-sensitizing mutation, experienced dysphagia due to an esophageal stricture caused by retrotracheal lymph node metastases. Osimertinib is a third-generation EGFR-tyrosine kinase inhibitor that is efficacious against EGFR-sensitizing mutations. The esophageal stricture hampered food intake and oral administration of osimertinib, causing severe malnutrition and deterioration to PS 3. Esophagogastroduodenoscopy (EGD) revealed severe and entire circumferential stenosis (7 cm in length) of the upper esophagus without mucosal abnormality. A nasogastric tube was inserted under EGD guidance, and an osimertinib suspension was administered accordingly: a tablet containing 80 mg of osimertinib was suspended in 50 mL of sterile hot water (55 ℃) for ten minutes, and the suspension was administered through a nasogastric tube once daily. Dysphagia improved 15 days after the introduction of osimertinib. After 21 days, the patient could take foods and drugs orally, and her PS improved to 1. Administering an osimertinib suspension via a nasogastric tube was a viable option in managing esophageal strictures in patients with EGFR-sensitizing mutations.

Citation: Tani N, et al. Nasogastric administration of osimertinib suspension for an epidermal growth factor receptor-mutated lung cancer causing an esophageal stricture: case report. Nasogastric administration of osimertinib suspension for an epidermal growth factor receptor-mutated lung cancer causing an esophageal stricture: case report. 2022; 11:1542-1545. doi: 10.21037/apm-21-940

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34263613/
