PMID: 34261617
Title: Percutaneous Coronary Intervention of Complex Calcific Coronary Lesions Utilizing Orbital Atherectomy Prior to Transcatheter Aortic Valve Replacement.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Coronary artery disease (CAD), often with severe calcification, is present in up to 75% of patients with severe aortic stenosis (AS) referred for transcatheter aortic valve replacement (TAVR). Management of CAD in such patients is challenging. Orbital atherectomy (OA) is an effective treatment of severely calcified coronary lesions prior to stent implantation. However, there is limited data on the use of OA for percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) to treat calcific CAD patients prior to TAVR (OA PCI + TAVR).
METHODS: Retrospective analysis of patients with moderate/severe calcific CAD and moderate/severe AS who underwent staged OA PCI + TAVR at one high-volume institution. Data were analyzed to assess the 1-year major adverse cardiac events after index OA PCI [MACE: death, target lesion revascularization (TLR), and myocardial infarction (MI)].
RESULTS: There were 18 patients (mean age of 82) treated with staged OA PCI + TAVR, and of those, 10 (56%) were male, 7 (39%) Caucasian, and 11 (61%) Hispanic/Latino. The average left ventricular ejection fraction was 49% and congestive heart failure was present in 12 patients (67%). There were no angiographic complications (0%), stent thrombosis (0%), or stroke events (0%). The 30-day and 1-year MACE rates were 5.6% (0% death, 0% TLR, 5.6% MI) and 17% (0% death, 11% TLR, and 17% MI [all non-Q-wave MI]), respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: In this single-center observational cohort series, patients with heavily calcified coronary lesions treated with OA prior to TAVR had low rates of MACE at 30 days and 1 year. The results demonstrate the feasibility and safety of OA for the treatment of complex calcific coronary lesions prior to TAVR. An up-to-date literature review of atherectomy before, during, or after TAVR in patients with concomitant severe AS and calcific CAD is also provided.
TABLE OF CONTENTS SUMMARY: There is limited data on the use of orbital atherectomy (OA) for percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) to treat calcific coronary artery disease (CAD) patients prior to transcatheter aortic valve replacement (TAVR). Our primary aim was to evaluate the feasibility, safety, and 1-year outcome of OA PCI pre-TAVR in patients with complex CAD and severe aortic stenosis (AS). We also aimed to provide a brief up-to-date literature review of atherectomy before, during, or after TAVR in patients with concomitant severe AS and calcific CAD. This retrospective cohort study found that OA is feasible and safe for the treatment of severely calcified coronary lesions before TAVR, resulting in acceptable 30-day and 1-year outcomes.

Citation: Beohar N, et al. Percutaneous Coronary Intervention of Complex Calcific Coronary Lesions Utilizing Orbital Atherectomy Prior to Transcatheter Aortic Valve Replacement. Percutaneous Coronary Intervention of Complex Calcific Coronary Lesions Utilizing Orbital Atherectomy Prior to Transcatheter Aortic Valve Replacement. 2022; 37:82-85. doi: 10.1016/j.carrev.2021.06.117

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34261617/
