PMID: 34279768
Title: Advanced cardiovascular multimodal imaging and aortic stenosis.

Abstract: Aortic valve stenosis has become the most common valvular heart disease on account of aging population and increasing life expectancy. Echocardiography is the primary diagnosis tool for this, but it still has many flaws. Therefore, advanced cardiovascular multimodal imaging techniques are continuously being developed in order to overcome these limitations. Cardiac magnetic resonance imaging (CMR) allows a comprehensive morphological and functional evaluation of the aortic valve and provides important data for the diagnosis and risk stratification in patients with aortic stenosis. CMR can functionally assess the aortic flow using two-dimensional and time-resolved three-dimensional velocity-encoded phase-contrast techniques. Furthermore, by late gadolinium enhancement and T1-mapping, CMR can reveal the presence of both irreversible replacement and diffuse interstitial myocardial fibrosis. Moreover, its role in guiding aortic valve replacement procedures is beginning to take shape. Recent studies have rendered the importance of active and passive biomechanics in risk stratification and prognosis prediction in patients with aortic stenosis, but more work is required is just in its infancy, but data are promising. In addition, cardiac computed tomography is particularly useful for the diagnosis of aortic valve stenosis, and in preprocedural evaluation of the aorta, while positron emission tomography can be also used to assess valvular inflammation and active calcification. The purpose of this review is to provide a comprehensive overview of current available data regarding advanced cardiovascular multimodal imaging in aortic stenosis.

Citation: Cionca C, et al. Advanced cardiovascular multimodal imaging and aortic stenosis. Advanced cardiovascular multimodal imaging and aortic stenosis. 2022; 27:677-696. doi: 10.1007/s10741-021-10131-8

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34279768/
