PMID: 34293967
Title: Celiac Artery Dissection and Retroperitoneal Hemorrhage in Median Arcuate Ligament Syndrome Treated With a Stent and Transcatheter Arterial Embolization: Preprocedural 4-Dimensional Computed Tomography Angiography Assessment.

Abstract: A 61-year-old man presented with retroperitoneal hemorrhage caused by an aneurysm rupture of the pancreaticoduodenal arcade (PDA), and acute celiac artery dissection distal to celiac axis stenosis. Owing to the gradual growth of the false lumen, we planned to deploy a stent to the celiac artery dissection and embolize the PDA aneurysm. Prior to stent placement, we assessed the acute celiac artery dissection distal to the stenosis using four-dimensional computed tomography (CT) angiography through expiration/inspiration/expiration cycle. We diagnosed median arcuate ligament syndrome considering that the celiac axis showed a hooked narrowing at end-expiration, and the compression decreased at end-inspiration. Additionally, the true lumen distal to the stretched axis dilated in the inspiration phase. Therefore, we could advance a catheter into the true lumen during inspiration and successfully deploy a stent. Subsequently, laparoscopic median arcuate ligament release was performed after the stent deployment. A postoperative CT scan showed good patency in the stent, with disappearance of the blood filling the false lumen and with reduced celiac axis stenosis.

Citation: Saiga A, et al. Celiac Artery Dissection and Retroperitoneal Hemorrhage in Median Arcuate Ligament Syndrome Treated With a Stent and Transcatheter Arterial Embolization: Preprocedural 4-Dimensional Computed Tomography Angiography Assessment. Celiac Artery Dissection and Retroperitoneal Hemorrhage in Median Arcuate Ligament Syndrome Treated With a Stent and Transcatheter Arterial Embolization: Preprocedural 4-Dimensional Computed Tomography Angiography Assessment. 2022; 56:75-79. doi: 10.1177/15385744211028738

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34293967/
