PMID: 34304296
Title: Results and clinical aspects of primary endonasal endoscopic dacryocystorhinostomy with silicone tube.

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: Endonasal endoscopic dacryocystorhinostomy (DCR) is a common treatment for saccal and post-saccal stenosis of the lacrimal pathway or chronic dacryocystitis (DC). The main symptom is chronic epiphora (tearing) and dacryocystitis (infection). The objective of this study is to assess the short-term surgical result of this treatment based on possible prognostic factors; such as gender, age, the pathogen spectrum and the histopathological result as well as the influence of these parameters on hospital stay.
METHODS: It is a retrospective analysis, which includes 197 cases in 177 patients, who received an endonasal endoscopic DCR with a silicone tube between January 2009 and December 2016, as primary procedure. The follow-up was carried out 3 months after the surgery, with the silicone tube being removed as part of the last examination including a flushing of the tear ducts with saline. This procedure is part of determining to measure the short-term success of the intervention. The definition of success of the surgery is an absence of epiphora or an acute infection of the nasolacrimal duct system, as well as an absent reflux in case of flushing the tear duct.
RESULTS: The success rate was 86.3% (N = 170). Higher incidence was seen in females (N = 146; 74.1%) and patients with a mean age of 65.4 (± 17.2). The presence of pathogens as well as the histopathological result do not have an impact on the short-term surgical success. Patients diagnosed with rheumatic diseases appear to have a worse prognosis with relation to procedure success. Also, the length of hospital stay was related to possible prognostic factors. Type II diabetes and glaucoma had a significant influence on a longer hospital stay.
CONCLUSION: The endonasal endoscopic DCR is a surgical procedure with high success rate. Patients with rheumatic diseases should be aware of increased failure rates. Patients with glaucoma and Type II diabetes might need a more intense aftercare.

Citation: Miragall V, et al. Results and clinical aspects of primary endonasal endoscopic dacryocystorhinostomy with silicone tube. Results and clinical aspects of primary endonasal endoscopic dacryocystorhinostomy with silicone tube. 2022; 279:2409-2415. doi: 10.1007/s00405-021-07004-z

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34304296/
