PMID: 34303637
Title: Modified open posterior internal sphincterotomy with sliding skin graft for chronic anal fissure and anal stenosis: Low recurrence rate and no serious faecal incontinence postoperative complication.

Abstract: AIM: Lateral internal sphincterotomy (LIS) remains a standard for chronic anal fissure even though other surgical techniques have shown high efficacy. Faecal incontinence is a well-documented complication of LIS. We devised modified open posterior internal sphincterotomy (m-OPIS) with sliding skin graft (SSG), which is a combined procedure of OPIS and anal advancement flap. The aim of this study is to evaluate m-OPIS+SSG.
METHODS: This was a retrospective, observational, single-arm study. m-OPIS+SSG was performed for chronic anal fissure and anal stenosis. m-OPIS involved incision of the internal sphincter muscle at the posterior midline until four fingers could be passed. The incision wound was closed by anastomosis of the anoderm and skin. Then, an arcuate skin incision was created and the skin graft was advanced into the anal canal. Follow-up was conducted by clinical consultation and telephone interview. Faecal continence was assessed by Cleveland Clinic Faecal Incontinence (CCFI) score.
RESULTS: m-OPIS+SSG was performed in 143 patients. The mean patient age was 50±16 years. The success and overall recurrence rates after m-OPIS+SSG were 99% and 0.7%, respectively, with a median follow-up period of 16.3 years. One patient developed incontinence with liquid stools once during the 6-month period. None of the other patients suffered permanent faecal incontinence postoperatively. The postoperative CCFI score was 0.5±0.9.
CONCLUSIONS: We consider m-OPIS+SSG as one of the efficacious options of procedure for chronic anal fissure and anal stenosis, owing to its high success rate, low recurrence rate and no postoperative complication of serious faecal incontinence.

Citation: Iida Y, et al. Modified open posterior internal sphincterotomy with sliding skin graft for chronic anal fissure and anal stenosis: Low recurrence rate and no serious faecal incontinence postoperative complication. Modified open posterior internal sphincterotomy with sliding skin graft for chronic anal fissure and anal stenosis: Low recurrence rate and no serious faecal incontinence postoperative complication. 2022; 159:267-272. doi: 10.1016/j.jviscsurg.2021.07.002

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34303637/
