PMID: 34302937
Title: Retrograde use of the Outback re-entry catheter in complex infrainguinal arterial recanalizations.

Abstract: OBJECTIVE/BACKGROUND: Retrograde recanalizations gained increasing recognition in complex arterial occlusive disease. Re-entry devices are a well-described adjunct for antegrade recanalizations. We present our experience with retrograde, infrainguinal recanalizations using the Outback re-entry catheter in challenging chronic total occlusions.
METHODS: We report data from a retrospective multicenter registry in complex retrograde recanalizations. Eligibility criteria included retrograde infrainguinal use of the Outback re-entry catheter where both conventional antegrade and retrograde recanalizations had been unsuccessful. Procedural outcomes included technical success (defined as successful wire passage and delivery of adjunctive therapy with <30% residual stenosis), safety (periprocedural complications, eg, bleeding, vessel injury, or occlusion of the artery at the re-entry site, and distal embolizations), and clinical outcome (amputation-free survival and freedom from clinically driven target lesion revascularization [cd-TLR]).
RESULTS: Forty-five consecutive patients underwent retrograde, infrainguinal recanalization attempts with the Outback re-entry catheter between February 2015 and August 2020. Thirty (67%) patients had a history of open vascular surgery in the index limb. In four patients, recanalizations were even more challenging due to previous surgical removal and/or ligation of the proximal segment of the superficial femoral artery. The retrograde access site of the Outback catheter was the femoropopliteal segment in 31 (69%) patients and crural vessels in 14 (31%) patients. The re-entry target sites were as follows: common femoral artery in 31 (69%) patients, superficial femoral artery in 9 (20%) patients, popliteal artery in 1 patient, and below-the-knee arteries in 2 patients. In four patients, the needle of the re-entry device was targeted to an inflated balloon, inserted via the antegrade route. The Outback re-entry catheter was placed via a 6-French sheath in 19 (42%) cases and sheathless in 26 (58%) cases. Technical success was achieved in 41 (91%) patients There were two instances of distal embolizations and three bleeding episodes. Amputation-free survival was 100% at 30 days, and after 12 months, freedom from cd-TLR was 95% at 30 days and 75% at 12 months of follow-up. Female sex was an independent predictor for cd-TLR at 12 months of follow-up.
CONCLUSIONS: Retrograde use of the Outback re-entry catheter in infrainguinal chronic total occlusions provides an effective and safe endovascular adjunct, when conventional antegrade and retrograde recanalization attempts have failed.

Citation: Patrone L, et al. Retrograde use of the Outback re-entry catheter in complex infrainguinal arterial recanalizations. Retrograde use of the Outback re-entry catheter in complex infrainguinal arterial recanalizations. 2022; 75:177-185.e1. doi: 10.1016/j.jvs.2021.07.108

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34302937/
