PMID: 34341208
Title: Right ventricular dysfunction in rheumatic heart valve disease: A clinicopathological evaluation.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: . Dysfunction of the right ventricle (RV) in rheumatic heart disease (RHD) is a poor prognostic factor. We planned to observe the clinicopathological changes in the RV of patients with RHD.
METHODS: . We defined RV dysfunction by a myocardial performance index value of >0.4 on transthoracic echo-cardiography and included patients with isolated severe mitral stenosis in sinus rhythm with normal left ventricular (LV) function from April 2014 to April 2016. The patients were divided into two groups based on the absence (group I, n=21) and presence (group II, n=22) of RV dysfunction. RV muscle biopsy was evaluated for the presence of apoptosis, fibrosis and fat deposition apart from other clinical and echocardiography parameters.
RESULTS: . Patients in both the groups had a similar demographic profile and LV dimensions and function. The age of the patients in the two groups was the only clinical parameter that was significantly different; older patients were in group II. A higher value for RV systolic pressure (RVSP) and the grade of tricuspid regurgitation was seen in group II. Though there was no significant difference in the presence of fibrosis and intensity of apoptosis in the RV biopsy samples, the deposition of fat in the interstitial spaces was decreased in group II. Age at presentation had no significant difference or correlation with the deposition of fibrosis or fat in the RV myocardial biopsy.
CONCLUSIONS: . Patients with RV dysfunction were older in age and their RVSP was raised at operation, suggesting that earlier intervention may help in preserving RV function.

Citation: Pande S, et al. Right ventricular dysfunction in rheumatic heart valve disease: A clinicopathological evaluation. Right ventricular dysfunction in rheumatic heart valve disease: A clinicopathological evaluation. 2020; 33:329-334. doi: 10.4103/0970-258X.321133

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34341208/
