PMID: 34364915
Title: Paravalvular Leak After Transcatheter Aortic Valve Implantation Its Incidence, Diagnosis, Clinical Implications, Prevention, Management, and Future Perspectives: A Review Article.

Abstract: Paravalvular leak (PVL) is very common after TAVI and has been reported to have a negative impact on both short- and long-term survival. The current study identified incidence, diagnosis, clinical implications, and prevention, management and future perspectives for post-TAVI paravalvular leak. A systematic literature search was conducted using PubMed and EMBASE, using the MeSH terms and key words "paravalvular leak," "diagnostic criteria," "implication," "influencing factors," and "prevention strategies." Studies were retained for review after meeting strict inclusion criteria that included only prospective studies evaluating Paravalvular leak in patients who had TAVI. Thirty articles were selected for inclusion, incidence of PVL across the studies ranged from 7% to 40%. Many factors have been associated with incidence and increased risk of PVL, including AVC volume, larger annulus dimensions, pre-TAVI transvalvular peak velocity, under sizing of the prosthesis, surgical, and other factors. PVL after TAVI is common and can be predicted by aortic root calcification volume, larger annulus dimensions, and pre-TAVI transvalvular peak velocity, with calcification volume being an independent predictor for PVL. The strength and nature of the association of various degrees of post-TAVI PVL and mortality are still to be further evaluated.

Citation: Bhushan S, et al. Paravalvular Leak After Transcatheter Aortic Valve Implantation Its Incidence, Diagnosis, Clinical Implications, Prevention, Management, and Future Perspectives: A Review Article. Paravalvular Leak After Transcatheter Aortic Valve Implantation Its Incidence, Diagnosis, Clinical Implications, Prevention, Management, and Future Perspectives: A Review Article. 2022; 47:100957. doi: 10.1016/j.cpcardiol.2021.100957

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34364915/
