PMID: 34379303
Title: PTRA is useful for renal artery angina by atherosclerotic plaque rupture with unilateral functioning kidney.

Abstract: We report a case of acute ischemic nephropathy in a patient with severe renal artery stenosis and bradycardia due to sick sinus syndrome. An 83-year-old Japanese woman with a history of hypertension was diagnosed with sick sinus syndrome and scheduled for pacemaker implantation. Four days prior to admission for the procedure, she experienced sudden-onset severe right flank pain that persisted for 1 day. On the day of admission, her serum creatinine level increased from 1.35 mg/dL, measured 2 weeks earlier, to 7.04 mg/dL. Laboratory examinations showed elevated C-reactive protein and lactate dehydrogenase levels. A computed tomography scan showed a severely atrophied left kidney, suggesting that it was non-functioning. Doppler ultrasonography of the right renal artery showed an extended acceleration time, suggesting proximal stenosis. Magnetic resonance imaging showed no enhancement in the proximal portions of the right renal artery, consistent with severe stenosis or occlusion. The patient developed severe bradycardia with lightheadedness; as a result, pacemaker implantation was performed on post-admission day 7. On day 10, digital subtraction angiography revealed diffuse severe stenosis of the right renal artery; intravascular ultrasonography suggested plaque rupture. Percutaneous transluminal renal angioplasty (PTRA) was performed and a drug-eluting stent was placed. On day 11, hemodialysis was performed owing to deteriorating renal function. The patient's renal function dramatically improved shortly thereafter. This case highlights the importance of PTRA for select patients, as it can potentially save some patients from chronic dialysis, and outlines the possible implications of bradycardia in the pathogenesis of ischemic nephropathy.

Citation: Morimoto N, et al. PTRA is useful for renal artery angina by atherosclerotic plaque rupture with unilateral functioning kidney. PTRA is useful for renal artery angina by atherosclerotic plaque rupture with unilateral functioning kidney. 2022; 11:84-89. doi: 10.1007/s13730-021-00634-6

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34379303/
