PMID: 34392978
Title: Circumferential esophageal replacement by a decellularized esophageal matrix in a porcine model.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Tissue engineering is an attractive alternative to conventional esophageal replacement techniques using intra-abdominal organs which are associated with a substantial morbidity. The objective was to evaluate the feasibility of esophageal replacement by an allogenic decellularized esophagus in a porcine model. Secondary objectives were to evaluate the benefit of decellularized esophagus recellularization with autologous bone marrow mesenchymal stromal cells and omental maturation of the decellularized esophagus.
METHODS: Eighteen pigs divided into 4 experimental groups according to mesenchymal stromal cells recellularization and omental maturation underwent a 5-cm long circumferential replacement of the thoracic esophagus. Turbo green florescent protein labelling was used for in vivo mesenchymal stromal cells tracking. The graft area was covered by a stent for 3 months. Clinical and histologic outcomes were analyzed over a 6-month period.
RESULTS: The median follow-up was 112 days [5; 205]. Two animals died during the first postoperative month, 2 experienced an anastomotic leakage, 13 experienced a graft area stenosis following stent migration of which 3 were sacrificed as initially planned after successful endoscopic treatment. The stent could be removed in 2 animals: the graft area showed a continuous mucosa without stenosis. After 3 months, the graft area showed a tissue specific regeneration with a mature epithelium and muscular cells. Clinical and histologic results were similar across experimental groups.
CONCLUSION: Circumferential esophageal replacement by a decellularized esophagus was feasible and allowed tissue remodeling toward an esophageal phenotype. We could not demonstrate any benefit provided by the omental maturation of the decellularized esophagus nor its recellularization with mesenchymal stromal cells.

Citation: Levenson G, et al. Circumferential esophageal replacement by a decellularized esophageal matrix in a porcine model. Circumferential esophageal replacement by a decellularized esophageal matrix in a porcine model. 2022; 171:384-392. doi: 10.1016/j.surg.2021.07.009

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34392978/
