PMID: 34394899
Title: Role of Folic Acid Drugs in the Treatment with Antithrombotic and Anticoagulant Drugs for Patients with Cardiovascular Diseases Based on the Analysis of Virtual Reality Medical Data.

Abstract: In recent years, with the continuous progress and development of science and technology and the increasing maturity of medical technology, the incidence of cardiovascular diseases has gradually increased with the age of the population. In the case of cardiovascular disease, proper anticoagulant therapy can effectively prevent bleeding in the occurrence of events, so a more effective treatment of cardiovascular disease is considered a difficult problem to overcome. Therefore, this article proposes the role of folic acid drugs based on virtual reality medical data analysis in the treatment of cardiovascular disease patients with antithrombotic and anticoagulant drugs, in order to improve providing help for cardiovascular disease. This study selected patients with cardiovascular disease who were admitted to the hospital and extracted 100 patients with complete data and a one-year follow-up period, covering the overall status of the patients' cardiovascular risk factors, cardiovascular disease degree, and the occurrence of major cardiovascular adverse events. During the follow-up period, we analyzed the specific status of major cardiovascular adverse events and the occurrence of bleeding events and compared and analyzed the effects of folic acid drugs on the treatment with antithrombotic and anticoagulant drugs in patients with cardiovascular disease. Experiments have proved that the differences in the degree of cardiovascular stenosis and the number of cardiovascular disease vessels in the four groups are statistically significant (P &lt; 0.01). The degree of cardiovascular stenosis in group D was lighter than that in groups A, B, and C, and the number of cardiovascular lesions was also less than that in groups A, B, and C. The differences were statistically significant (P &lt; 0.05). This indicates that folic acid can effectively treat cardiovascular stenosis, prevent cardiovascular disease, and then treat patients with cardiovascular disease with antithrombotic and anticoagulant drugs. It provides an important basis for accurate clinical diagnosis and treatment.

Citation: Zhang A, et al. Role of Folic Acid Drugs in the Treatment with Antithrombotic and Anticoagulant Drugs for Patients with Cardiovascular Diseases Based on the Analysis of Virtual Reality Medical Data. Role of Folic Acid Drugs in the Treatment with Antithrombotic and Anticoagulant Drugs for Patients with Cardiovascular Diseases Based on the Analysis of Virtual Reality Medical Data. 2021; 2021:9914787. doi: 10.1155/2021/9914787

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34394899/
