PMID: 34393082
Title: European Association of Urology Guidelines on Urethral Stricture Disease Part 3: Management of Strictures in Females and Transgender Patients.

Abstract: CONTEXT: Urethral stricture management guidelines are an important tool for guiding evidence-based clinical practice.
OBJECTIVE: To present a summary of the 2021 version of the European Association of Urology (EAU) guidelines on management of urethral strictures in females and transgender patients.
EVIDENCE ACQUISITION: The panel performed a literature review on these topics covering a time frame between 2008 and 2018 and used predefined inclusion and exclusion criteria for study selection. Key papers beyond this time period could be included as per panel consensus. A strength rating for each recommendation was added based on the review of the available literature and after panel discussion.
EVIDENCE SYNTHESIS: Management of urethral strictures in females and transgender patients has been described in a few case series in the literature. Endoluminal treatments can be used for short, nonobliterative strictures in the first line. Repetitive endoluminal treatments are not curative. Urethroplasty encompasses a multitude of techniques and adaptation of the technique to the local conditions of the stricture is crucial to obtain durable patency rates.
CONCLUSIONS: Management of urethral strictures in females and transgender patients is complex and a multitude of techniques are available. Selection of the appropriate technique is crucial and these guidelines provide relevant recommendations.
PATIENT SUMMARY: Although different techniques are available to manage narrowing of the urethra (called a stricture), not every technique is appropriate for every type of stricture. These guidelines, developed on the basis of an extensive literature review, aim to guide physicians in selecting the appropriate technique(s) to treat a specific type of urethral stricture in females and transgender patients. TAKE HOME  MESSAGE: Although different techniques are available to manage urethral strictures, not every technique is appropriate for every type of stricture. Management of urethral strictures in females and transgender patients is complex and a multitude of techniques are available. Selection of the appropriate technique is crucial and these guidelines provide relevant recommendations.

Citation: Riechardt S, et al. European Association of Urology Guidelines on Urethral Stricture Disease Part 3: Management of Strictures in Females and Transgender Patients. European Association of Urology Guidelines on Urethral Stricture Disease Part 3: Management of Strictures in Females and Transgender Patients. 2022; 8:1469-1475. doi: 10.1016/j.euf.2021.07.013

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34393082/
