PMID: 34401627
Title: Novel approaches to minimize intraoperative bleeding during endoscopic submucosal dissection of a large rectal lateral spreading tumor extended to the dentate line with internal hemorrhoids.

Abstract: Video 1Endoscopic submucosal dissection (ESD) of large rectal lateral spreading tumors (LSTs) that extend to the dentate line with internal hemorrhoids is a challenging procedure because of the increased risk of bleeding from penetrating and hemorrhoidal vessels and the reduced visual field caused by the dilated venous packages and the narrow anal lumen.This video describes novel technical approaches to minimize the risk of intraoperative bleeding.The described approaches are indicated in large rectal LSTs that extend to the dentate line with large internal hemorrhoids. The described selective-vessel approach is also indicated in any vascularized superficial lesion amenable to endoscopic treatment.ESD was performed in the retroflex view using an Evis Exera II video processor, an H180 gastroscope, an ERBE ICC 200, and CO2 insufflation. As tools, IT-nano, needle knife, hook knife, hemostatic forceps, and a distal cap were used. The lifting solution was a mixture of normal saline, hyaluronic acid, epinephrine, and indigo carmine.A hemicircumferential superficial granular lateral spreading tumor was observed in the lower rectum. Indigo carmine dye spray facilitated the identification of the lesion's margin and demonstrated no ulcer, converging folds, or large nodules. After the submucosal (SM) injection, a shallow mucosal incision was made in the retroflex view using a conventional needle knife, followed by the circumferential incision at the proximal side using an IT-nano. The SM layer was dissected at a superficial level to avoid large SM vessels, thus preventing intraoperative bleeding and maintaining a clean surgical field. Small vessels were selectively coagulated mainly by using the small disc located at the back of the insulated tip as the SM later was superficially dissected. To facilitate precise coagulation, a stepwise dissection technique was used for larger vessels. After identification, the vessel was first exposed by dissecting the surrounding SM layer at the left and right sides using the long blade of IT-nano, with blunt dissection of the surrounding tissue at the vessels' posterior aspect using a Hook knife. Double-vessel sealing using a hemostatic forceps was performed both at the rectal and tumor sides. Lastly, the vessel was transected between sealed segments using the IT-nano, without major bleeding. The circumferential incision was completed at the left side and distally extended to the anal canal where large hemorrhoidal bundles were seen. A needle knife was used to complete the SM dissection and, here, the final cut. En bloc resection was successfully achieved without intraoperative bleeding.The en bloc resected specimen was 85 mm in size, and squamous epithelium of the anal canal was observed at the distal margin. Colonoscopy 5 months post-ESD revealed adequate healing, no stenosis and no hemorrhoids.Coagulation and hemostasia should be promptly carried out whenever inadvertent injury to large vessels and subsequent bleeding occurs during lateral exposure, posterior blunt dissection, double coagulation, and transection of vessels.Curative ESD can be achieved in large rectal LSTs that extend to the dentate line with large internal hemorrhoids. Strategies to minimize intraoperative bleeding during ESD should be considered and include the following:•An SM dissection from the proximal tumor margin in the retroflex view to circumvent contact with hemorrhoids.•A differential level of dissection to prevent inadvertent vessel injury-shallow first to avoid large SM vessels and deeper above the muscular layer closer to the dentate line to shut off blood supply by penetrating hemorrhoidal vessels.•Last but not least, a selective approach to vessels to reduce the risk of bleeding, with direct coagulation for small vessels and with lateral exposure, posterior blunt dissection, double-vessel sealing, and transection between sealed segments for larger vessels.

Citation: Emura F, et al. Novel approaches to minimize intraoperative bleeding during endoscopic submucosal dissection of a large rectal lateral spreading tumor extended to the dentate line with internal hemorrhoids. Novel approaches to minimize intraoperative bleeding during endoscopic submucosal dissection of a large rectal lateral spreading tumor extended to the dentate line with internal hemorrhoids. 2021; 6:344-346. doi: 10.1016/j.vgie.2021.04.005

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34401627/
