PMID: 34400918
Title: Factors associated with aorto-ostial stent coverage during intravascular ultrasound-guided percutaneous coronary intervention to severely narrowed non-ostial right coronary artery lesions.

Abstract: INTRODUCTION: In percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) to atherosclerotic lesions in the right coronary artery (RCA), coronary artery dissection in the ostium of the RCA is a rare but fatal complication. Stent implantation to the ostium of RCA may be selected for the prevention of aorto-ostial dissection.
AIM: To find factors associated with aorto-ostial stent coverage to mild to moderate ostial stenosis during the treatment of severely narrowed non-ostial RCA lesions.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: The primary interest was to find factors associated with ostial stent coverage using multivariate regression analysis. We included 236 patients who underwent intravascular ultrasound (IVUS)-guided PCI to severely narrowed RCA lesions with mild to moderate ostial stenosis, and divided those into the ostial-coverage group (n = 52) and the non-coverage group (n = 184).
RESULTS: The prevalence of continuous ostial plaque detected by intravascular ultrasound (IVUS) was significantly greater in the ostial-coverage group (84.6%) than in the non-coverage group (52.9%) (p &lt; 0.001). Multivariate logistic regression analysis revealed that continuous ostial plaque detected by IVUS (OR = 5.398, 95% CI: 2.322-12.553, p &lt; 0.001) was significantly associated with ostial stent coverage after controlling confounding factors. Ischaemia-driven target vessel revascularization was less frequently observed in the ostial-coverage group than in the non-coverage group, without reaching statistical significance (p = 0.069).
CONCLUSIONS: Continuous ostial plaque detected by IVUS was significantly associated with ostial stent coverage to the mild to moderate stenosis when PCI to non-ostial, severely narrowed RCA lesions was performed. The use of IVUS may enhance the safety but may increase the total stent length in PCI to RCA.

Citation: Narita M, et al. Factors associated with aorto-ostial stent coverage during intravascular ultrasound-guided percutaneous coronary intervention to severely narrowed non-ostial right coronary artery lesions. Factors associated with aorto-ostial stent coverage during intravascular ultrasound-guided percutaneous coronary intervention to severely narrowed non-ostial right coronary artery lesions. 2021; 17:163-169. doi: 10.5114/aic.2021.107494

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34400918/
