PMID: 34406576
Title: Carotid disease and retinal optical coherence tomography angiography parameters in patients with non-arteritic anterior ischemic optic neuropathy.

Abstract: PURPOSE: In order to analyze the data and retinal microvasculature for non-arteritic anterior ischemic optic neuropathy (NAION), patients were referred to have carotid Doppler ultrasound (CDU) from 2016 to 2020.
METHODS: In this case-control observational study, 30 NAION patients were evaluated with CDU. Twenty-two NAION patients (at least 3 months after the onset of symptoms) and 9 normal subjects underwent a complete ophthalmic examination including optical coherence tomography (OCT) and optical coherence tomography angiography (OCT-A). NAION eyes and fellow eyes were further divided into two groups based on the presence of carotid stenosis (CS). NAION patients with CS were termed "CS-NAION"; and those without CS were termed "NCS-NAION." Measurements of radial peripapillary capillary vessel density (RPC VD), ganglion cell complex (GCC), retinal nerve fiber layer (RNFL) thicknesses were compared among groups.
RESULTS: Fourteen of 30 NAION patients referred to have carotid Doppler were positive for CS with each one of such referrals having less than 50% stenosis. RNLF, GCC and RPC VDs were reduced in NAION patients' eyes, when compared to controls and the fellow eyes. RPC VD was significantly lower in the temporal-superior (P = 0.037) and the superior-temporal (P = 0.012) sectors of the NCS-NAION patients than in the CS-NAION patients. No significant differences were found between CS-fellow eyes and NCS-fellow eyes in terms of RPC VDs, RNLF or GCC.
CONCLUSION: Results of the study highlight the effect of the carotid artery stenosis on ocular perfusion pressure in the pathogenesis of NAION. More extensive studies are necessary.

Citation: Kaya FS. Carotid disease and retinal optical coherence tomography angiography parameters in patients with non-arteritic anterior ischemic optic neuropathy. Carotid disease and retinal optical coherence tomography angiography parameters in patients with non-arteritic anterior ischemic optic neuropathy. 2022; 42:123-131. doi: 10.1007/s10792-021-02007-5

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34406576/
