PMID: 34406451
Title: Venous anomalies in hypoplastic posterior fossa: unsolved questions.

Abstract: INTRODUCTION: Anomalous intracranial venous anatomy is described in patients with syndromic craniosynostosis and is of significant importance when it comes to surgical morbidity. However, it is still controversial its origin, type of circulation in each syndrome, how it behaves over time, when it can be interrupted and wether it needs to be studied. The purpose of this paper is to discuss these issues by reviewing the literature.
METHODS: A literature search was performed using the PubMed database with a focus on papers including detailed descriptions of the venous outflow in complex and syndromic craniosynostosis. Search details used were the following: ("veins"[MeSH Terms] OR "veins"[All Fields] OR "venous"[All Fields]) AND ("abnormalities"[Subheading] OR "abnormalities"[All Fields] OR "anomalies"[All Fields]) AND syndromic[All Fields] AND ("craniosynostoses" [MeSH Terms] OR "craniosynostoses"[All Fields] OR "craniosynostosis"[All Fields]). Studies that exposed details of venous anomalies found in syndromic or complex craniosynostosis were selected.
RESULTS: Of a total of 211 articles found, 11 were selected for this review. Of these, 5 were case reports, 5 retrospective studies, and only 1 prospective study. From the 6 series of cases presented, 5 discussed the relationship between jugular foramen stenosis (JFS) and collateral venous drainage. The authors discuss data from the literature for each leading question presented: 1-collateral circulation: is it an intrinsic trouble, a consequence of stenosis of the cranial base foramina or related to raised intracranial pressure (ICP)?; 2-what venous anomalies should we search for, and what is the best exam to study them?; 3-collateral circulation changes with time?; 4-can neurosurgeons interrupt the collateral circulation?; 5-should we study all complex types of craniosynostosis?
CONCLUSION: The importance of the study of the venous outflow in patients with complex craniosynostosis is evident in the literature. The real relationship between intracranial hypertension, hypoplastic skull base foramen, Chiari I malformation, hydrocephalus, and venous collateral circulation remains unknown. Prospective studies focusing on molecular biology analysis will possibly solve all of these leading questions.

Citation: Protzenko T, et al. Venous anomalies in hypoplastic posterior fossa: unsolved questions. Venous anomalies in hypoplastic posterior fossa: unsolved questions. 2021; 37:3177-3187. doi: 10.1007/s00381-021-05315-4

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34406451/
