PMID: 34417369
Title: Circular Stapled Technique Versus Modified Collard Technique for Cervical Esophagogastric Anastomosis After Esophagectomy: A Randomized Controlled Trial.

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: This study was performed to investigate the efficacy of the modified Collard (MC) technique for reducing anastomotic stricture after esophagectomy compared with the circular stapled (CS) technique.
SUMMARY BACKGROUND DATA: The currently available techniques of anastomosis after esophagectomy are associated with a significant risk of anasto-motic complications. However, the optimal anastomotic technique after esophagectomy has not yet been established.
METHODS: We randomly allocated patients to either the CS group or the MC group. The primary endpoint was the incidence of anastomotic stricture. The secondary endpoints included the incidence of postoperative complications (including anastomotic leakage) and quality of life (QoL). All anastomoses were performed after indocyanine green evaluation for objective homogeni-zation of blood flow to the gastric conduit between the 2 techniques.
RESULTS: Among 100 randomized patients (CS group, n = 50; MC group, n = 50), anastomotic strictures were observed in 18 (42%) patients in the CS group and in no patients in the MC group. There were no significant between-group differences in anastomotic leakage (CS group, 7% vs MC group, 8%; P = 0.94). Quality of life domains of dysphagia and choking when swallowing at 3 months after surgery were significantly better in the MC group than in the CS group.
CONCLUSIONS: The MC technique reduces the incidence of anastomotic stricture and improves postoperative quality of life. Furthermore, the incidence of anastomotic leakage is comparable between the 2 techniques based on accurate comparison under objective homogenization of the gastric conduit condition.

Citation: Hosoi T, et al. Circular Stapled Technique Versus Modified Collard Technique for Cervical Esophagogastric Anastomosis After Esophagectomy: A Randomized Controlled Trial. Circular Stapled Technique Versus Modified Collard Technique for Cervical Esophagogastric Anastomosis After Esophagectomy: A Randomized Controlled Trial. 2022; 276:30-37. doi: 10.1097/SLA.0000000000005185

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34417369/
