PMID: 34414296
Title: Ischemic stroke on hormonal contraceptives: Characteristics, mechanisms and outcome.

Abstract: INTRODUCTION: Systemic contraceptives increase the risk of ischemic stroke but little is known about the characteristics, mechanisms and long-term outcome post stroke of patients on hormonal contraception. We sought to To assess characteristics and outcome of acute ischemic stroke (AIS) in young women using systemic hormonal contraceptives (SHC) and compare them to strokes in non-contraceptive users.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Using the Acute STroke Registry and Analysis of Lausanne (ASTRAL), we analyzed demographics, risk factors, clinical, radiological and treatment data of consecutive female patients of <50 years between 2003 to 2015. We compared groups with and without SHC in a logistic regression analysis.
RESULTS: Of the 179 female patients of <50 years during the observation period, 57 (39.6%) used SHC, 71.9% of whom, a combined oral contraceptive pill. On logistic regression contraceptive users were significantly younger but had comparable stroke severity. They had less migraine with aura and tobacco use, and more hyperlipidaemia. Also, contraceptive users had significantly less intra and extracranial stenosis and occlusion on arterial imaging, but more focal hypoperfusion on CT-perfusion. Undetermined mechanism of stroke was more frequent with SHC users, whereas rare mechanisms were more frequent in non-users. The contraceptive user group had a more favourable adjusted 12-month outcome with significantly fewer ischemic recurrences after stopping systemic contraception in all.
CONCLUSION: Contraceptive users with ischemic strokes are younger and have lesser tobacco use and migraine with aura and more hyperlipidemia. Their stroke mechanism is more often undetermined using a standardised work-up, and their adjusted long-term outcome is more favourable with less stroke recurrence.

Citation: Correia P, et al. Ischemic stroke on hormonal contraceptives: Characteristics, mechanisms and outcome. Ischemic stroke on hormonal contraceptives: Characteristics, mechanisms and outcome. 2021; 6:205-212. doi: 10.1177/23969873211019586

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34414296/
