PMID: 34414298
Title: Colchicine for prevention of vascular inflammation in Non-CardioEmbolic stroke (CONVINCE) - study protocol for a randomised controlled trial.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Inflammation contributes to unstable atherosclerotic plaque and stroke. In randomised trials in patients with coronary disease, canukinumab (an interleukin-1B antagonist) and colchicine (a tubulin inhibitor with pleiotropic anti-inflammatory effects) reduced recurrent vascular events.Hypothesis: Anti-inflammatory therapy with low-dose colchicine plus usual care will reduce recurrent vascular events in patients with non-severe, non-cardioembolic stroke and TIA compared with usual care alone.
DESIGN: CONVINCE is a multi-centre international (in 17 countries) Prospective, Randomised Open-label, Blinded-Endpoint assessment (PROBE) controlled Phase 3 clinical trial in 3154 participants. The intervention is colchicine 0.5 mg/day and usual care versus usual care alone (antiplatelet, lipid-lowering, antihypertensive treatment, lifestyle advice). Included patients are at least 40 years, with non-severe ischaemic stroke (modified Rankin score ≤3) or high-risk TIA (ABCD2 > 3, or positive DWI, or cranio-cervical artery stenosis) within 72 hours-28 days of randomisation, with qualifying stroke/TIA most likely caused by large artery stenosis, lacunar disease, or cryptogenic embolism. Exclusions are stroke/TIA caused by cardio-embolism or other defined cause (e.g. dissection), contra-indication to colchicine (including potential drug interactions), or incapacity for participation in a clinical trial. The anticipated median follow-up will be 36 months. The primary analysis will be by intention-to-treat.
OUTCOME: The primary outcome is time to first recurrent ischaemic stroke, myocardial infarction, cardiac arrest, or hospitalisation with unstable angina (non-fatal or fatal).
SUMMARY: CONVINCE will provide high-quality randomised data on the efficacy and safety of anti-inflammatory therapy with colchicine for secondary prevention after stroke.
SCHEDULE: First-patient first-visit was December 2016. Recruitment to complete in 2021, follow-up to complete in 2023.

Citation: Kelly P, et al. Colchicine for prevention of vascular inflammation in Non-CardioEmbolic stroke (CONVINCE) - study protocol for a randomised controlled trial. Colchicine for prevention of vascular inflammation in Non-CardioEmbolic stroke (CONVINCE) - study protocol for a randomised controlled trial. 2021; 6:222-228. doi: 10.1177/2396987320972566

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34414298/
