PMID: 34416281
Title: Results Obtained with the Protege EverFlex Self-expanding Bare Stent in Interventional Treatment of Spontaneous Isolated Visceral Artery Dissection.

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: We evaluated the early and midterm results of the endovascular approach with a certain type of bare stent to treat spontaneous isolated visceral artery dissection (SIVAD).
METHODS: 28 patients with symptomatic SIVAD were selected from two hospitals from July 2014 to September 2020. All patients had symptoms of acute persistent abdominal pain accompanied by varying degrees of nausea and vomiting. The diagnosis of SIVAD was made according to the multidetector CT angiography (CTA) findings. We retrospectively analyzed the patients' medical records. According to our previous clinical experience, the Protege EverFlex self-expanding bare stent was used in these patients, and we subsequently followed up the patients to record and analyze their outcomes after surgery. The imaging results before and after the operations were compared.
RESULTS: All 28 patients were successfully implanted with Protege EverFlex stents. The true lumen blood flow of the SIVAD recovered during the operation. The residual stenosis rate was less than 30%, and the technical success rate was 100%. There were no complications, such as bleeding, intestinal necrosis, digestive tract perforation, liver failure or spleen infarction. The abdominal pain was relieved or eliminated in all patients.
CONCLUSION: The Protege EverFlex self-expanding bare stent and the endovascular approach could be a minimally invasive, safe and effective treatment method for SIVAD with a high success rate and a relatively low price.

Citation: Gao F, et al. Results Obtained with the Protege EverFlex Self-expanding Bare Stent in Interventional Treatment of Spontaneous Isolated Visceral Artery Dissection. Results Obtained with the Protege EverFlex Self-expanding Bare Stent in Interventional Treatment of Spontaneous Isolated Visceral Artery Dissection. 2021; 77:86-93. doi: 10.1016/j.avsg.2021.05.017

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34416281/
