PMID: 34410332
Title: Routine early postoperative computed tomography angiography after coronary artery bypass surgery: clinical value and management implications.

Abstract: OBJECTIVES: Computed tomography angiography (CTA) is broadly used for long-term follow-up of graft patency after coronary artery bypass graft surgery (CABG). However, its clinical value in the early postoperative setting has not been established yet. We evaluated the benefit of adding CTA to the routine clinical work-up after CABG on patient management.
METHODS: A total of 305 consecutive patients (269 males, median age 68 years) underwent CABG and postoperative CTA with a median of 6 days after surgery. Graft patency and additional imaging findings were assessed and their influence on diagnosis and clinical management was evaluated.
RESULTS: Graft occlusion or high-grade stenosis was found in 15% of the patients. Additional findings were reported in 44% of the patients, including pericardial (2%) and pleural effusion (27%), large pneumothorax (11%), pulmonary infection (4%), cardiac or vascular thrombus (2%), pulmonary embolism (2%), sternal dehiscence (1%) and additional incidental findings requiring follow-up (6%). CT findings initiated new diagnostic and/or therapeutic measures in 15% of the patients, 47% of those with diseased grafts and 19% of patients with non-graft-related findings. No adverse events related to CTA were documented.
CONCLUSIONS: Early routine postoperative assessment of CABG with CTA reveals both cardiac and non-cardiac findings with a high frequency, affecting clinical management in a substantial proportion of patients.

Citation: Károlyi M, et al. Routine early postoperative computed tomography angiography after coronary artery bypass surgery: clinical value and management implications. Routine early postoperative computed tomography angiography after coronary artery bypass surgery: clinical value and management implications. 2022; 61:459-466. doi: 10.1093/ejcts/ezab390

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34410332/
