PMID: 34421560
Title: Disrupted Topological Organization of Functional Networks in Asymptomatic Carotid Plaque Without Significant Carotid Stenosis: A Resting-State fMRI Study.

Abstract: Purpose: Previous studies have found that there are significant changes in functional network properties for patients with moderate to severe carotid artery stenosis. Our study aimed to explore the topology properties of brain functional network in asymptomatic patients with carotid plaque without significant stenosis. Methods: A total of 61 asymptomatic patients with carotid plaque (mean age 61.79 ± 7.35 years) and 25 healthy control subjects (HC; 58.12 ± 6.79 years) were recruited. General data collection, carotid ultrasound examination and resting state functional magnetic resonance imaging were performed on all subjects. Graph-theory was applied to examine the differences in the brain functional network topological properties between two groups. Results: In the plaque group, E<sub>loc</sub>(P = 0.03), γ (P = 0.01), and σ (P = 0.01) were significantly higher than in the HC group. The degree centrality of left middle frontal gyrus and the nodal efficiency of left middle frontal gyrus and right inferior parietal angular gyrus were significantly higher in the plaque group than in HC. The degree centrality and betweenness centrality of right middle temporal gyrus, as well as the nodal efficiency of right middle temporal gyrus, were significantly lower in the plaque group than in HC. Conclusions: The brain functional networks of patients with carotid plaques differ from those of healthy controls. Asymptomatic patients with carotid plaques exhibit increased local and global connectivity, which may reflect subtle reorganizations in response to early brain damage.

Citation: Tuo J, et al. Disrupted Topological Organization of Functional Networks in Asymptomatic Carotid Plaque Without Significant Carotid Stenosis: A Resting-State fMRI Study. Disrupted Topological Organization of Functional Networks in Asymptomatic Carotid Plaque Without Significant Carotid Stenosis: A Resting-State fMRI Study. 2021; 15:685763. doi: 10.3389/fnhum.2021.685763

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34421560/
