PMID: 34425295
Title: Long-Standing Overt Ventriculomegaly in Adults (LOVA): Diagnostic Aspects, CSF Dynamics with Lumbar Infusion Test and Treatment Options in a Consecutive Series with Long-Term Follow-Up.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Long-standing overt ventriculomegaly in adults is a chronic form of hydrocephalus without a clear pathophysiological description and a consensus about the treatment. We present the results of endoscopic third ventriculostomy (ETV) in a consecutive series with a mean follow-up of 79 ± 23 months, highlighting how the preoperative lumbar infusion test could facilitate understanding the pathophysiology of the disease.
METHODS: We retrospectively collected data regarding clinical assessment, neuroradiological findings, and preoperative lumbar infusion tests in 22 symptomatic patients.
RESULTS: In the majority of cases, patients reported imbalance and gait disorders, and 8 subjects had headaches. The preoperative lumbar infusion test demonstrated a mean opening pressure of 13.95 ± 2.88 mm Hg, with plateau values ranging from 22 to 39 mm Hg. The resistance to outflow was 11.21 ± 2.00 mm Hg/mL/min. After the procedure, all patients reported improvement or halted progression in their presenting symptoms, whereas no significant reduction was demonstrated in Evans' index. One subject underwent a second ETV procedure after more than 2 years because of the failure of the endoscopic approach.
CONCLUSIONS: A progressive exhaustion of brain compliance plays an important role in explaining the dichotomy between severe ventriculomegaly and mild clinical symptoms in patients with long-standing overt ventriculomegaly in adults. The role of the aqueductal stenosis as a diagnostic criterion might be reconsidered. The preoperative infusion test data support this observation. Preoperative assessment should include not only clinical and neuroradiological evaluation but also the study of cerebrospinal fluid dynamics. ETV should be considered the treatment of choice because of its safety and efficacy. Long-term follow-up is mandatory.

Citation: Tuniz F, et al. Long-Standing Overt Ventriculomegaly in Adults (LOVA): Diagnostic Aspects, CSF Dynamics with Lumbar Infusion Test and Treatment Options in a Consecutive Series with Long-Term Follow-Up. Long-Standing Overt Ventriculomegaly in Adults (LOVA): Diagnostic Aspects, CSF Dynamics with Lumbar Infusion Test and Treatment Options in a Consecutive Series with Long-Term Follow-Up. 2021; 156:e30-e40. doi: 10.1016/j.wneu.2021.08.068

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34425295/
