PMID: 34425569
Title: The effects of plaque morphological characteristics on the post-stenotic flow in left main coronary artery bifurcation.

Abstract: Local post-stenotic hemodynamics has critical influence in the atherosclerotic plaque progression occurring in susceptible arterial sites, in particular the left main coronary artery (LMCA) bifurcation. Understanding the effects of plaque morphological characteristics: stenosis severity (SS), eccentricity index (EI) and lesion length (LL) on the post-stenotic flow behavior can significantly improve treatment planning. In order to investigate these effects, we have employed computational fluid dynamics (CFD) simulations in twenty computer-generated and five patient-specific LMCA models and the hemodynamic parameters: velocity, pressure (P), wall pressure gradient (WPG), wall shear stress (WSS), time averaged wall shear stress (TAWSS), oscillatory shear index (OSI), relative residence time (RRT) and helicity intensity (h<sub>2</sub>) were analyzed. Our results revealed that the effect of stenosis eccentricity varied significantly for different values of stenosis severity and lesion length. Regions with low WSS, low TAWSS and high RRT were more prominent in models having higher stenosis severity. For smaller lesion length, at low and moderate stenosis severity, surface area with low TAWSS and high RRT decreased with increasing eccentricity index, whereas for high stenosis severity models, low TAWSS region and average RRT values increased with eccentricity. However, for models with longer lesion length, regions with high OSI and RRT overall increased gradually with eccentricity. The helicity intensity (h<sub>2</sub>) of all models remained very low except at the most eccentric model with longer lesion length. The presence of very high helical flow in this model suggests the possibility of atheroprotective flow. It can be concluded that all plaque morphological characteristics covered under this investigation play an important role in plaque progression.

Citation: Hossain T, et al. The effects of plaque morphological characteristics on the post-stenotic flow in left main coronary artery bifurcation. The effects of plaque morphological characteristics on the post-stenotic flow in left main coronary artery bifurcation. 2021; 7:(unknown pages). doi: 10.1088/2057-1976/ac202c

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34425569/
