PMID: 34438329
Title: Transradial dual-balloon protection system for subclavian artery stenting: "Balloon Switching" technique and literature review.

Abstract: PURPOSE: Endovascular treatment for subclavian artery (SA) occlusive disease is well established; however, a potential risk remains for posterior circulation embolism, which can be life threatening. To reduce the risk of vertebral artery (VA) embolism, we have devised a transradial dual-balloon protection system referred to as the balloon switching technique. Herein, we describe a patient with left SA stenosis who successfully underwent SA stenting using the balloon switching technique. Case presentation A 79-year-old woman with left arm claudication was diagnosed with left subclavian steal syndrome due to severe stenosis of the proximal left SA. Endovascular revascularization using the balloon switching technique was employed. To obtain VA embolic protection during device advancement through the SA lesion, an 8F balloon-guiding catheter was inflated in the left SA at the level of the VA takeoff using the left transradial sheathless approach. A balloon-expandable stent was inflated in the SA lesion, followed by deflation of the balloon-guiding catheter. The stagnant left VA flow was flushed away toward the distal left SA. Following reinflation of the balloon-guiding catheter, the stent delivery system was deflated and removed. Floating debris in the SA proximal to the balloon-guiding catheter was adequately aspirated, followed by deflation of the balloon-guiding catheter. Left SA angiography showed successful revascularization, and postprocedural neuroimaging showed no evidence of ischemic stroke.
CONCLUSIONS: The balloon switching technique reduces the risk of VA embolism during left SA stenting via the transradial access. This method is a useful therapeutic option for patients with left SA occlusive disease.

Citation: Yamazaki D, et al. Transradial dual-balloon protection system for subclavian artery stenting: "Balloon Switching" technique and literature review. Transradial dual-balloon protection system for subclavian artery stenting: "Balloon Switching" technique and literature review. 2021; 143:109907. doi: 10.1016/j.ejrad.2021.109907

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34438329/
