PMID: 34430652
Title: Clinical importance of testing for clopidogrel resistance in patients undergoing carotid artery stenting-a systematic review.

Abstract: Dual antiplatelet therapy is frequently prescribed for patients undergoing carotid artery stenting (CAS), however clopidogrel resistance might cause thromboembolic complications. The role of testing for clopidogrel resistance in patients undergoing CAS is unclear. In this study, we aimed to review the periprocedural thromboembolic outcomes in clopidogrel resistant patients who underwent CAS. We conducted a review of PubMed, EMBASE, and the Cochrane Library up to October 7, 2020. Studies were included that investigated at least ten patients aged 18 years or older with a symptomatic carotid artery stenosis requiring CAS. Studies were excluded that investigated patients with a carotid artery dissection, case reports, case series of less than ten patients, reviews, commentaries, letters to the editors, and conference abstracts. The primary endpoint was the incidence of thromboembolic events. One hundred seventy-seven unique articles were identified of which three studies were included in our systematic review. The sample sizes ranged from 76 to 449 patients and the follow-up duration from 24 hours to 2 years postprocedural. Two retrospective observational studies determined clopidogrel resistance using measurement of P2Y12 reaction units, and one historical cohort study used genetic testing. Two studies concluded that clopidogrel resistance was a risk factor for thromboembolic complications, the other found higher values of P2Y12 reaction units in patients with thromboembolic events compared to those without. In conclusion, current literature supports a possible relationship between clopidogrel resistance and thromboembolic complications in patients who underwent CAS. Preprocedural testing for clopidogrel resistance might therefore be of additional value. Randomized studies using a valid, reliable clopidogrel resistance test and clinical endpoints, are however required to make a definitive statement and to determine the impact of the thromboembolic complications. This study was registered within PROSPERO (CRD42020197318).

Citation: Collette SL, et al. Clinical importance of testing for clopidogrel resistance in patients undergoing carotid artery stenting-a systematic review. Clinical importance of testing for clopidogrel resistance in patients undergoing carotid artery stenting-a systematic review. 2021; 9:1211. doi: 10.21037/atm-20-7153

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34430652/
