PMID: 34438087
Title: Sharp recanalization for treatment of central venous occlusive disease in hemodialysis patients.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: The purpose of the present study was to evaluate the technical feasibility and safety of sharp recanalization for central venous occlusive disease (CVOD) in patients requiring hemodialysis.
METHODS: Patients with CVOD requiring hemodialysis who had undergone endovascular recanalization using sharp devices, including the stiff end of a guidewire, Chiba needle, or RUS-100 to cross occluded segments after conventional techniques had failed were included. The needle was guided toward a target placed at the opposite end of the occlusion. Although the guidewire was passed though the occlusion, subsequent procedures such as percutaneous transluminal angioplasty could be performed.
RESULTS: A total of 27 sharp recanalization procedures in 25 patients were performed. Two attempts failed, 1 patient had undergone two separate successful procedures, and 23 procedures in 23 patients were successful. The overall technique success was 92.6%. The stiff end of a guidewire was the first choice for all the procedures, and recanalization was achieved in 18 patients (66.7%). A Chiba biopsy needle was used in six procedures (22.2%), with 100% technical success. A RUPS-100 set was used in two procedures (7.4%), with one aborted because of concern for complications. The occlusion was subsequently crossed using a Chiba needle. Four minor adverse events (two of mediastinal hematoma and two of chest pain) had occurred, and two major adverse events (pericardial tamponade and acute pleural effusion in one patient [4%], treated with the guidewire stiff-end technique, who recovered after drainage) had occurred.
CONCLUSIONS: Sharp recanalization is safe and feasible with high technical success for CVOD in patients requiring hemodialysis who cannot be recanalized using conventional techniques.

Citation: Chen B, et al. Sharp recanalization for treatment of central venous occlusive disease in hemodialysis patients. Sharp recanalization for treatment of central venous occlusive disease in hemodialysis patients. 2022; 10:306-312. doi: 10.1016/j.jvsv.2021.08.007

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34438087/
