PMID: 34430649
Title: A narrative review of the pathophysiology of ischemic stroke in carotid plaques: a distinction versus a compromise between hemodynamic and embolic mechanism.

Abstract: Atherosclerotic carotid artery stenosis causes about 10-20% of all ischemic strokes through two main mechanisms: hemodynamic impairment in case of significant stenosis and thromboembolism from an atherosclerotic plaque regardless of the degree of stenosis. The latter is the most frequent mechanism and appear to result from embolization from a vulnerable atherosclerotic plaque or acute occlusion of the carotid artery and propagation of thrombus distally. Downstream infarcts may occur in a territory of major cerebral artery or at the most distal areas between two territories of major cerebral arteries, the so-called watershed (WS), or border zone area. Although WS infarcts, especially deep WS infarct, were historically thought to be due to hemodynamic compromise, the role of microembolism has also been documented, both mechanisms may act synergistically to promote WS infarcts. Routine and more advanced imaging techniques may provide information on the underlying mechanism involved in ipsilateral ischemic stroke. A better understanding of ischemic stroke pathogenesis in carotid stenosis may limit the use of routine non-selective shunt, whose benefit-risk balance is debated, to patients with hemodynamic impairment. After reviewing existing evidence underpinning the contribution of the two mechanisms in downstream ischemic stroke and the various imaging techniques available to investigate them, we will focus on the pathogenesis of WS infarcts that remains debated.

Citation: Mechtouff L, et al. A narrative review of the pathophysiology of ischemic stroke in carotid plaques: a distinction versus a compromise between hemodynamic and embolic mechanism. A narrative review of the pathophysiology of ischemic stroke in carotid plaques: a distinction versus a compromise between hemodynamic and embolic mechanism. 2021; 9:1208. doi: 10.21037/atm-20-7490

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34430649/
