PMID: 34430653
Title: Systematic review of the effectiveness of carotid surgery and endovascular carotid stenting versus best medical treatment in managing symptomatic acute carotid artery dissection.

Abstract: Cervical artery dissection (CeAD) with an intramural haematoma can lead to stroke risk, especially in young patients. We performed comprehensive searches of the Cochrane Stroke Group Trials Register, the CENTRAL, MEDLINE and EMBASE to review the effectiveness of surgical and endovascular interventions versus best medical treatment alone for symptomatic CeAD. Furthermore, we aim to elaborate on the phenotypic individual disease manifestations of spontaneous Cervical Artery Dissection (sCAD) and how they translate into stroke and risk of dissection recurrence. Primary outcomes were ipsilateral stroke and disability. Secondary outcomes were death, any stroke, or transient ischaemic attack, residual stenosis >50%, recurrence of CeAD, expanding pseudo-aneurysm or major bleeding. Our search yielded no randomised controlled trials and/or controlled clinical trials (CCTs) comparing either carotid surgery or endovascular therapy with optimal medical management; thus there was no evidence to support the use of any specific method for management of extracranial CeAD in patients who fail antithrombotic therapy. However, despite the absence of controlled studies to compare surgery or endovascular therapy in patients who fail antithrombotic therapy, carotid surgery in young patients can be justified as a personalized precision approach given the high morbidity and mortality in this age group.

Citation: Sultan S, et al. Systematic review of the effectiveness of carotid surgery and endovascular carotid stenting versus best medical treatment in managing symptomatic acute carotid artery dissection. Systematic review of the effectiveness of carotid surgery and endovascular carotid stenting versus best medical treatment in managing symptomatic acute carotid artery dissection. 2021; 9:1212. doi: 10.21037/atm-20-7279

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34430653/
