PMID: 34437974
Title: Endovascular management of subclavian-steal syndrome in a patient with post-traumatic dissection of an aberrant right subclavian artery.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: An aberrant right subclavian artery is the most common congenital anomaly of the aortic arch and may cause symptoms due to aneurysmal dilatation, stenosis or occlusion. We present a case of subclavian-steal syndrome due to post-traumatic dissection of an aberrant right subclavian artery.
METHODS AND RESULTS: A 50 year-old man presented with dizziness and fainting episodes after exercising his right arm and a systolic blood pressure gradient of 40 mm Hg between the 2 arms. Suspecting a subclavian steal syndrome, a computed tomography angiography was requested which revealed an aberrant right subclavian artery with a severe stenosis proximal to the ostium of the vertebral artery. Transfemoral digital subtraction angiography showed a local dissection of the aberrant right subclavian artery with late retrograde filling of the ipsilateral vertebral artery. The lesion was successfully treated with primary stent implantation (9 mm x 40 mm, LIFESTAR, BARD). On interrogation, the patient recalled an injury to the right arm after falling off a ladder 10 years earlier, as a possible post-traumatic cause for the dissection. He had an uneventful outcome and is symptom-free 12 months down the line.
CONCLUSIONS: The combination of post-traumatic dissection of an aberrant right subclavian artery resulting to subclavian steal syndrome is an extremely rare scenario. Endovascular management is a safe, minimally invasive alternative to open surgery.

Citation: Karkos CD, et al. Endovascular management of subclavian-steal syndrome in a patient with post-traumatic dissection of an aberrant right subclavian artery. Endovascular management of subclavian-steal syndrome in a patient with post-traumatic dissection of an aberrant right subclavian artery. 2021; 77:349.e19-349.e23. doi: 10.1016/j.avsg.2021.05.037

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34437974/
