PMID: 34438558
Title: Extravascular MDCT Findings of Pulmonary Vein Stenosis in Children with Cardiac Septal Defect.

Abstract: Purpose: To retrospectively investigate the extravascular thoracic MDCT angiography findings of pulmonary vein stenosis (PVS) in children with a cardiac septal defect. Materials and Methods: Pediatric patients (age ≤ 18 years) with cardiac septal defect and PVS, confirmed by echocardiogram and/or conventional angiography, who underwent thoracic MDCT angiography studies from April 2009 to April 2021 were included. Two pediatric radiologists independently evaluated thoracic MDCT angiography studies for the presence of extravascular thoracic abnormalities in: (1) lung and airway (ground-glass opacity (GGO), consolidation, pulmonary nodule, mass, cyst, septal thickening, fibrosis, and bronchiectasis); (2) pleura (pleural thickening, pleural effusion, and pneumothorax); and (3) mediastinum (mass and lymphadenopathy). Interobserver agreement between the two independent pediatric radiology reviewers was evaluated with kappa statistics. Results: The final study group consisted of 20 thoracic MDCT angiography studies from 20 consecutive individual pediatric patients (13 males (65%) and 7 females (35%); mean age: 7.5 months; SD: 12.7; range: 2 days to 7 months) with cardiac septal defect and PVS. The characteristic extravascular thoracic MDCT angiography findings were GGO (18/20; 90%), septal thickening (9/20; 45%), pleural thickening (16/20; 80%), and ill-defined, mildly heterogeneously enhancing, non-calcified soft tissue mass (9/20; 45%) following the contours of PVS in the mediastinum. There was a high interobserver kappa agreement between two independent reviewers for detecting extravascular abnormalities on thoracic MDCT angiography studies (k = 0.99). Conclusion: PVS in children with a cardiac septal defect has a characteristic extravascular thoracic MDCT angiography finding. In the lungs and pleura, GGO, septal thickening, and pleural thickening are frequently seen in children with cardiac septal defect and PVS. In the mediastinum, a mildly heterogeneously enhancing, non-calcified soft tissue mass in the distribution of PVS in the mediastinum is seen in close to half of the pediatric patients with cardiac septal defect and PVS.

Citation: Lee EY, et al. Extravascular MDCT Findings of Pulmonary Vein Stenosis in Children with Cardiac Septal Defect. Extravascular MDCT Findings of Pulmonary Vein Stenosis in Children with Cardiac Septal Defect. 2021; 8:(unknown pages). doi: 10.3390/children8080667

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34438558/
