PMID: 34434331
Title: Recurrence of Paget-Schroetter Syndrome: A Rare Case Report and Review of Literature.

Abstract: Paget-Schroetter syndrome (PSS) is a primary upper extremity deep vein thrombosis (DVT) that occurs with no significant risk factors, mostly in a young and healthy patient. Treatment of this disease is discussed heavily in the literature and the optimal treatment method is still being debated. Here, we present a patient with PSS treated with balloon angioplasty, thrombolysis and treatment with an oral thrombin inhibitor (apixaban) who developed recurrence of PSS. A 38-year-old white male with no past medical history, presented to an urgent care center with sudden onset axillary pain and an axillary lump that was treated with outpatient antibiotics. Extensive deep venous thrombosis was diagnosed with computed tomography (CT) and ultrasound. He underwent percutaneous pharmacomechanical thrombectomy. Postprocedural angiogram showed significant improvement in the caliber of the axillary and subclavian veins where they crossed the first rib. He was discharged on apixaban and underwent removal of his first rib 1 month later. He returned 3 weeks later with recurrence of right arm pain and swelling. Repeat ultrasound showed thrombus in the right arm and venogram confirmed 80% stenosis at the subclavian vein as it enters the innominate vein. He was again treated with placement of a thrombolytic catheter and overnight thrombolysis of the central venous circulation on the right-side upper extremity balloon angioplasty of the subclavian vein, axillary vein, and basilic vein. He is disease-free for 6 months. Recurrence of PSS after surgical removal of rib, thrombectomy, thrombolysis while using apixaban is very rare. This is the first case to our knowledge presented with recurrent PSS treated with apixaban, early rib resection, balloon angioplasty and thrombectomy.

Citation: Akoluk A, et al. Recurrence of Paget-Schroetter Syndrome: A Rare Case Report and Review of Literature. Recurrence of Paget-Schroetter Syndrome: A Rare Case Report and Review of Literature. 2020; 11:22-25. doi: 10.14740/jmc3416

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34434331/
