PMID: 34444763
Title: The Emerging Role of Nutraceuticals in Cardiovascular Calcification: Evidence from Preclinical and Clinical Studies.

Abstract: Cardiovascular calcification is the ectopic deposition of calcium-phosphate crystals within the arterial wall and the aortic valve leaflets. This pathological process leads to increased vascular stiffness, reduced arterial elasticity, and aortic valve stenosis, increasing the risk of cardiovascular diseases. Although cardiovascular calcification is an increasing health care burden, to date no medical therapies have been approved for treating or preventing it. Considering the current lack of therapeutic strategies and the increasing prevalence of cardiovascular calcification, the investigation of some nutraceuticals to prevent this pathological condition has become prevalent in recent years. Recent preclinical and clinical studies evaluated the potential anti-calcific role of nutraceuticals (including magnesium, zinc, iron, vitamin K, and phytate) in the progression of vascular calcification, providing evidence for their dietary supplementation, especially in high-risk populations. The present review summarizes the current knowledge and latest advances for nutraceuticals with the most relevant preclinical and clinical data, including magnesium, zinc, iron, vitamin K, and phytate. Their supplementation might be recommended as a cost-effective strategy to avoid nutritional deficiency and to prevent or treat cardiovascular calcification. However, the optimal dose of nutraceuticals has not been identified and large interventional trials are warranted to support their protective effects on cardiovascular disease.

Citation: Donato M, et al. The Emerging Role of Nutraceuticals in Cardiovascular Calcification: Evidence from Preclinical and Clinical Studies. The Emerging Role of Nutraceuticals in Cardiovascular Calcification: Evidence from Preclinical and Clinical Studies. 2021; 13:(unknown pages). doi: 10.3390/nu13082603

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34444763/
