PMID: 34441970
Title: Association of Echocardiographic Diastolic Dysfunction with Discordance of Invasive Intracoronary Pressure Indices.

Abstract: Instantaneous wave-free ratio (iFR)-guided coronary revascularization has similar clinical outcomes compared to fractional flow reserve (FFR)-guided revascularization strategy. However, some studies have shown a discordance of around 20% between iFR and FFR. Although various factors have been reported in the literature to affect pressure indices and lead to such discordance, there is a paucity of data regarding the effect of diastolic dysfunction on functional assessment of coronary arteries. Our study aimed to investigate whether there was an association between echocardiographic left ventricular diastolic dysfunction and iFR/FFR discordance. This retrospective observational study evaluated 100 patients with angiographically intermediate coronary stenosis (50-70%) who underwent physiological testing with iFR and FFR. Transthoracic echocardiograms were reviewed to assess echocardiographic indices of diastolic function. The study population was divided into two groups based on diastolic function. iFR and FFR discordance was measured in each group and compared to evaluate the statistical difference. The mean age of the study population was 66.22 ± 10.02 years. Discordance between iFR and FFR was seen in 45.16% of patients with diastolic dysfunction compared to 24.64% of patients with normal diastolic function (p = 0.04). Multivariable logistic regression analysis indicated that echocardiographic E/e' was independently associated with iFR/FFR discordance (p = 0.02). Left ventricular diastolic dysfunction is a significant factor that can lead to discordance between iFR and FFR and should be taken into account during coronary physiological testing.

Citation: Tahir H, et al. Association of Echocardiographic Diastolic Dysfunction with Discordance of Invasive Intracoronary Pressure Indices. Association of Echocardiographic Diastolic Dysfunction with Discordance of Invasive Intracoronary Pressure Indices. 2021; 10:(unknown pages). doi: 10.3390/jcm10163670

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34441970/
