PMID: 34449511
Title: Comparison of results of transcatheter femoral aortic valve replacement under local and general anesthesia: A protocol for systematic review and meta-analysis.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Traditionally, TAVR (Transcatheter Aortic Valve Replacement) has been performed under general anesthesia (GA). Thus GA facilitates the use of TEE (Transesophageal echocardiography), and the use of TEE is an important means to improve the quality of cardiac surgery and reduce postoperative complications. However, GA was also associated with prolonged mechanical ventilation, longer hospitalization and intensive care unit hours, and the need for positive inotropic agents. With increasing clinical experience and advances in transcatheter techniques, transfemoral TAVR may also be feasible under local anesthesia (LA). Studies have shown that LA can avoid hemodynamic fluctuations caused by general anesthesia and lung damage caused by positive pressure ventilation, and can also reduce medical costs.
METHODS: Two researchers independently read the titles and abstracts of the literature obtained. After excluding the studies that did not meet the inclusion criteria, they read through the full text of the remaining literatures to determine whether they truly met the inclusion criteria. When two researchers disagree on the included literature, the third researcher decides whether to include it or not. For literature with incomplete data, contact the author via email for unpublished data. The included studies were assessed by two researchers for the risk of bias, and cross-checked. Stata16.0 was used for meta-analysis. Heterogeneity was assessed by χ2 test and I2 quantification. Pooled analysis was performed by random effects model. Sensitivity analysis was performed by excluding references one by one. We will perform subgroup analysis based on data conditions.
RESULTS: In this study, high quality evidence was provided by selecting local anesthesia and general anesthesia during transfemoral transcatheter aortic valve replacement for patients with primary arterial stenosis.
CONCLUSION: Local anesthesia provides anaesthetic-guided sedation that does not require intubation and is safe and effective. Local anesthesia may be a better alternative to TAVR under general anesthesia.
ETHICS AND DISSEMINATION: The study does not require ethical approval.
INPLASY REGISTRATION NUMBER: INPLASY202170078.

Citation: Han X, et al. Comparison of results of transcatheter femoral aortic valve replacement under local and general anesthesia: A protocol for systematic review and meta-analysis. Comparison of results of transcatheter femoral aortic valve replacement under local and general anesthesia: A protocol for systematic review and meta-analysis. 2021; 100:e27085. doi: 10.1097/MD.0000000000027085

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34449511/
