PMID: 34447790
Title: The Predictive Value of Carotid Ultrasonography With Cardiovascular Risk Factors-A "SPIDER" Promoting Atherosclerosis.

Abstract: Insufficient recommendations do not support the clinical use of carotid ultrasonography for further risk stratification in moderate-to-high risk patients with cardiovascular disease (CVD). A literature review was performed to assess six aspects of the research progress and limitations of carotid ultrasonography and carotid atherosclerosis-related risk factors: (1) structures of the carotid intima and media; (2) plaques; (3) inflammation; (4) dynamics of carotid blood flow; (5) early detection and intervention; and (6) risk factors for CVD. Although carotid intima-media thickness and carotid plaques are well-acknowledged independent predictors of CVD risk, normative and cut-off values are difficult to define due to the heterogeneous measurements reported in previous studies. Plaque properties, including location, number, density, and size, become more important risk predictors for cardiovascular disease, but a better approach for clinical use needs to be further established. Three-dimensional ultrasound and contrast-enhanced ultrasound are promising for promoting risk stratification with more details on plaque morphology. Moreover, inflammatory diseases and biomarkers should be evaluated for a full assessment of the inflammatory burden for atherosclerosis. Carotid flow velocity is not only an indicator for stenosis but also a potential risk predictor. Carotid atherosclerosis should be detected and treated early, and additional clinical trials are needed to determine the efficacy of these measures in reducing CVD risk. Cardiovascular risk factors tend to affect carotid plaques, and early treat-to-target therapy might yield clinical benefits. Based on the aforementioned six aspects, we consider that these six important factors act like a "SPIDER" spinning the web of atherosclerosis; a timely comprehensive assessment and intervention may halt the progression to CVD. Carotid ultrasound results should be combined with other atherosclerotic factors, and a comprehensive risk assessment may help to guide cardiovascular prevention decisions.

Citation: Li H, et al. The Predictive Value of Carotid Ultrasonography With Cardiovascular Risk Factors-A "SPIDER" Promoting Atherosclerosis. The Predictive Value of Carotid Ultrasonography With Cardiovascular Risk Factors-A "SPIDER" Promoting Atherosclerosis. 2021; 8:706490. doi: 10.3389/fcvm.2021.706490

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34447790/
