PMID: 34456667
Title: Differences in Wall Shear Stress Between High-Risk and Low-Risk Plaques in Patients With Moderate Carotid Artery Stenosis: A 4D Flow MRI Study.

Abstract: This study aimed to evaluate the difference in wall shear stress (WSS) (axial, circumferential, and 3D) between high-risk and low-risk plaques in patients with moderate carotid artery stenosis and to identify which time points and directions play the dominant roles in determining the risk associated with plaques. Forty carotid arteries in 30 patients were examined in this study. All patients underwent high-resolution vessel wall (HRVW) imaging, diffusion-weighted imaging (DWI), and 4D flow MRI; HRVW imaging and DWI were used to separate low- and high-risk plaque. Twenty-four high-risk plaques and 16 low-risk plaques were enrolled. An independent-sample t-test was used to compare WSS between low- and high-risk plaques in the whole cardiac cycle and at 20 different time points in the cardiac cycle. The study found that patients with high-risk plaques had higher WSS than those with low-risk plaques throughout the entire cardiac cycle (p &lt; 0.05), but the changes varied at the 20 different time points. The number of non-significant differences (p &gt; 0.05) was less in diastole than in systole across different time points. The axial WSS values were higher than the circumferential WSS values; the difference in axial WSS values between high- and low-risk plaques was more significant than the difference in circumferential WSS, whereas 3D WSS values best reflected the difference between high-risk and low-risk plaques because they showed significant differences at every time point. In conclusion, increased WSS, especially during the diastolic period and in the axial direction, may be a signal of a high-risk plaque and may cause cerebrovascular events in patients with moderate carotid artery stenosis. Additionally, WSS can provide hemodynamic information and help clinicians make more appropriate decisions for patients with plaques.

Citation: Zhang G, et al. Differences in Wall Shear Stress Between High-Risk and Low-Risk Plaques in Patients With Moderate Carotid Artery Stenosis: A 4D Flow MRI Study. Differences in Wall Shear Stress Between High-Risk and Low-Risk Plaques in Patients With Moderate Carotid Artery Stenosis: A 4D Flow MRI Study. 2021; 15:678358. doi: 10.3389/fnins.2021.678358

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34456667/
