PMID: 34453975
Title: The clinical presentation and outcome of aortic coarctation associated with left ventricular inflow and outflow tract lesion in adult patients: Shone syndrome and beyond.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Aortic coarctation (AoCoa) is a congenital stenosis of aorta, which often co-exists with other congenital heart defects. Many studies have shown the importance of regular follow-up in these patients however there is scarcity of knowledge relating to the impact of left ventricle inflow lesions (LVIT) and left ventricle outflow track lesions (LVOT). The aim of this study is to evaluate the impact of isolated AoCoa with LVIT and/or LVOT on haemodynamic, morbidity and mortality.
METHODS: We have retrospectively analysed clinical data of all adult AoCoa patients who underwent echocardiography between 2010-2018 in our centre. Outcome measures included death, number of hospitalisations for cardiac causes, development of cardiac arrhythmia, new prescription of HF medication.
RESULTS: A total of 406 AoCoa patients were included and were followed for a median 4.2 years. At baseline, 38% patients had AoCoa alone, 54% patients had LVOT, 3% patients had LVIT, and 5% patients had mixed LVIT and LVOT, including patients with Shone syndrome. Patients with mixed LVIT and LVOT had the highest mortality of the four groups and the highest heart failure-related morbidity. Moreover, they were the most prone to have a higher indexed LA volume compared to patients with no LVOT (p=0.0001). During follow-up, 13 patients died, of which 21% patients were from the mixed LVIT and LVOT group.
CONCLUSIONS: AoCoa patients with a combination of LVIT and LVOT including Shone complex are associated with a significantly higher morbidity and mortality compared to AoCoa alone.

Citation: Khan U, et al. The clinical presentation and outcome of aortic coarctation associated with left ventricular inflow and outflow tract lesion in adult patients: Shone syndrome and beyond. The clinical presentation and outcome of aortic coarctation associated with left ventricular inflow and outflow tract lesion in adult patients: Shone syndrome and beyond. 2021; 343:45-49. doi: 10.1016/j.ijcard.2021.08.017

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34453975/
