PMID: 34450242
Title: Female gender is associated with increased late luminal narrowing within the stent graft after thoracic endovascular aortic repair.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Luminal narrowing, suspected secondary to thrombus, occurs within stent grafts at an unclear incidence after thoracic endovascular aortic repair (TEVAR). The significance of this phenomenon has not been determined, nor have the risk factors for development of intragraft luminal narrowing. Small graft diameter is hypothesized to be a risk factor for the development of ingraft stenosis.
METHODS: A retrospective analysis was performed of a multicenter healthcare system including all patients who underwent TEVAR between July 2011 and July 2019 with at least 1 year of subsequently available surveillance contrast-enhanced computed tomography imaging. Standard demographic, preoperative, intraoperative, and postoperative variables were collected. Measurements were obtained via direct off-line images from computed tomography scans. Patent intragraft diameters were compared with baseline and interval change values were normalized to time to follow-up. The primary outcome measure was annual rate of intragraft luminal narrowing.
RESULTS: There were 208 patients who met the inclusion criteria (94 women, 114 men) with a median follow-up of 822 days. The mean annual rate of percent intragraft diameter reduction was 10.5 ± 7.7% for women and 7.6 ± 5.6% for men (P = .0026). Multivariate analysis demonstrated female gender (P = .0283), preoperative diagnosis of hypertension (P = .0449), and need for coverage of the left subclavian artery (P = .0328) were all significant predictors of intragraft luminal narrowing. Small aortic diameters were not found to be associated independently with ingraft luminal narrowing nor was the concomitant use of antiplatelet or anticoagulation medications. Significant amounts of ingraft luminal narrowing, defined as a greater than 20% intragraft diameter decrease, were associated with an increased need for any reintervention, including for malperfusion, endoleak, and symptomatic aneurysm (P = .0249). Kaplan-Meier estimates demonstrated a significant gender-associated difference in high rates of intragraft luminal narrowing (P = .00189).
CONCLUSIONS: In this analysis, female gender is shown to be a significant nonmodifiable risk factor for intragraft luminal narrowing after TEVAR. The development of this phenomenon is not benign; as such, these findings were associated with an increased need for reintervention. This finding may be attributable to differences in aortic compliance or gender-associated differences in coagulation pathways and merits further investigation. Surveillance after thoracic stent grafting must account for patient-specific variations in complication risk.

Citation: Kuo MC, et al. Female gender is associated with increased late luminal narrowing within the stent graft after thoracic endovascular aortic repair. Female gender is associated with increased late luminal narrowing within the stent graft after thoracic endovascular aortic repair. 2022; 75:67-73. doi: 10.1016/j.jvs.2021.07.226

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34450242/
