PMID: 34460162
Title: [Antioxidant effect of cortexin, cerebrolysin and actovegin in rats with chronic cerebrovascular insufficiency].

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: To compare the antioxidant effects of cortexin, cerebrolysin and actovegin in rats with chronic brain ischemia.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: Chronic brain ischemia was modeled in male rats by 50% stenosis of the common carotid arteries. Forty days after surgery, the animals received 2 ten-day courses of therapy, separated by a break of 10 days. Placebo, cortexin (0.3, 1 and 3 mg/kg), cerebrolysin (0.8, 2.5 and 7.5 ml/kg) and actovegin (5 ml/kg) were administered to animals as treatment. The concentration of malondialdehyde (MDA) in the homogenates was determined by the reaction with thiobarbituric acid, the concentration of reduced glutathione was determined by the reduction reaction of 5.5-dithiobis- (2-nitrobenzoic acid); determination of catalase activity, as well as the content of lactate and pyruvate, by commercially available reagent kits. The activity of superoxide dismutase (SOD) was determined by the photometric method based on an assessment of the degree of inhibition of the epinephrine oxidation reaction. All reactions were carried out in triplicates.
RESULTS: Modeling of chronic brain ischemia led to the statistically significant decrease in the content of lactate and pyruvate (p&lt;0.001, when compared with the control group), which was not accompanied by a significant decrease in their ratio (p&gt;0.05), as well as to the decrease in SOD, catalase activity, restored glutathione and increase in MDA concentrations. Compared with the control group, in the groups that received cortexin at a dose of 3 mg/kg/day, cerebrolysin at a dose of 7.5 ml/kg/day and actovegin at a dose of 5 ml/kg/day, there were an increase in the content of lactate and pyruvate (without a significant change in their ratio), restoration of glutathione levels and the activity of SOD and, to a lesser extent, catalase, combined with a decrease in the concentration of MDA.
CONCLUSION: Course administration of cortexin (3 mg/kg), cerebrolysin (7.5 ml/kg) and, to a lesser extent, actovegin (5 ml/kg) has a positive effect on the state of the antioxidant system of the brain in rats with chronic brain ischemia.

Citation: Kurkin DV, et al. [Antioxidant effect of cortexin, cerebrolysin and actovegin in rats with chronic cerebrovascular insufficiency]. [Antioxidant effect of cortexin, cerebrolysin and actovegin in rats with chronic cerebrovascular insufficiency]. 2021; 121:84-89. doi: 10.17116/jnevro202112107184

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34460162/
