PMID: 34467571
Title: Troubleshooting of failed continence mechanisms in the ileocecal pouch: Operative technique and long-term results of the intussuscepted ileal nipple valve.

Abstract: OBJECTIVES: To provide a detailed step-by-step operative technique, and to report on long-term functional and metabolic outcomes in secondary continence mechanisms in the form of secondary intussuscepted ileal nipple valves in revisional surgery of ileocecal pouches.
METHODS: From May 1997 to May 2015, 18 female and 10 male patients suffering from dysfunctional primary continence mechanisms of their ileocecal pouch underwent revisonal surgery to create a secondary ileal nipple valve at our tertiary referral center. The average follow-up period was 65.4 months.
RESULTS: After surgery, 24 patients were continent by day and night, and four patients showed minor incontinence with the use of a safety pad. The average frequency of clean intermittent catheterization decreased both during the day and at night. The diameter of the catheters used for clean intermittent catheterization increased significantly. No patient showed stomal stenosis, change of stool habits or metabolic situation in the follow-up period. Furthermore, the creation of the secondary ileal nipple valves did not affect the capacity of the reservoir. In the long-term follow up, two patients required the construction of a third continence mechanism, making for an overall success rate of 92% in the study group.
CONCLUSION: To our knowledge, this is the first study of long-term results after the creation of secondary ileal nipple valves. We provide evidence that the creation of a secondary ileal nipple valve is a safe and reliable procedure for continence restoration in ileocecal pouches with excellent functional and metabolic long-term outcomes.

Citation: Kalogirou C, et al. Troubleshooting of failed continence mechanisms in the ileocecal pouch: Operative technique and long-term results of the intussuscepted ileal nipple valve. Troubleshooting of failed continence mechanisms in the ileocecal pouch: Operative technique and long-term results of the intussuscepted ileal nipple valve. 2021; 28:1105-1111. doi: 10.1111/iju.14654

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34467571/
