PMID: 34464374
Title: [Hypertensive urgencies and emergencies in pediatric patients].

Abstract: Hypertensive crisis is a sudden rise in blood pressure that is significantly above normal values. Depending on the severity of symptoms, hypertensive crisis can be classified as hypertensive urgency, i.e. severe arterial hypertension (AH) without organ failure and damage with nonspecific symptoms (pain, dizziness, nosebleeds, nausea, vomiting), and hypertensive emergency, i.e. severe AH with organ failure and/or acute organ damage. The most common causes of hypertensive crisis in neonates and infants are vascular diseases (thrombus or stenosis of the renal artery, coarctation of the aorta) or renal parenchymal diseases, in older children kidney diseases and renal artery stenosis, in adolescents also intoxications or pregnancy. In neonates and infants, nonspecific symptoms caused by acute heart failure predominate, and in older children, symptoms from the central nervous system are most typical. Fast- and short-acting medications are used in the treatment of hypertensive urgencies and emergencies; a gradual normalization of blood pressure within 36-48 hours is recommended. Hypertensive emergencies are treated with intravenous drugs (e.g., labetalol, hydralazine), and hypertensive urgencies with intravenous or oral drugs such as nifedipine, clonidine, and minoxidil. Hypertensive emergencies are treated with intravenous drugs (e.g., labetalol, hydralazine), and hypertensive urgencies with intravenous or oral drugs such as nifedipine, clonidine, and minoxidil. Emergency conditions are treated with intravenous drugs (e.g., labetalol, hydralazine), urgent conditions with intravenous or oral drugs such as nifedipine, clonidine, and minoxidil. Some causes of hypertensive crisis require different management, e.g. alpha-blockers in pheochromocytoma. In all patients, evaluation of target organ damage and extensive diagnostics for secondary forms of hypertension is necessary.

Citation: Skrzypczyk P, et al. [Hypertensive urgencies and emergencies in pediatric patients]. [Hypertensive urgencies and emergencies in pediatric patients]. 2021; 49:306-310.

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34464374/
