PMID: 34461527
Title: Forward-viewing estimation of 3D blood flow velocity fields by intravascular ultrasound: Influence of the catheter on velocity estimation in stenoses.

Abstract: Coronary artery disease is the most common type of cardiovascular disease, affecting > 18 million adults, and is responsible for > 365 k deaths per year in the U.S. alone. Wall shear stress (WSS) is an emerging indicator of likelihood of plaque rupture in coronary artery disease, however, non-invasive estimation of 3-D blood flow velocity and WSS is challenging due to the requirement for high spatial resolution at deep penetration depths in the presence of significant cardiac motion. Thus we propose minimally-invasive imaging with a catheter-based, 3-D intravascular forward-viewing ultrasound (FV US) transducer and present experiments to quantify the effect of the catheter on flow disturbance in stenotic vessel phantoms with realistic velocities and luminal diameters for both peripheral (6.33 mm) and coronary (4.74 mm) arteries. An external linear array ultrasound transducer was used to quantify 2-D velocity fields in vessel phantoms under various conditions of catheter geometry, luminal diameter, and position of the catheter relative to the stenosis at a frame rate of 5000 frames per second via a particle imaging velocimetry (PIV) approach. While a solid catheter introduced an underestimation of velocity measurement by > 20% relative to the case without a catheter, the hollow catheter introduced < 10% velocity overestimation, indicating that a hollow catheter design allowing internal blood flow reduces hemodynamic disturbance. In addition, for both peripheral and coronary arteries, the hollow catheter introduced < 3% deviation in flow velocity at the minimum luminal area compared to the control case. Finally, an initial comparison was made between velocity measurements acquired using a low frequency, catheter-based, 3-D intravascular FV US transducer and external linear array measurements, with relative error < 12% throughout the region of interest for a flow rate of 150 mL/min. While further system development is required, results suggest intravascular ultrasound characterization of blood flow velocity fields in stenotic vessels could be feasible with appropriate catheter design.

Citation: Kim S, et al. Forward-viewing estimation of 3D blood flow velocity fields by intravascular ultrasound: Influence of the catheter on velocity estimation in stenoses. Forward-viewing estimation of 3D blood flow velocity fields by intravascular ultrasound: Influence of the catheter on velocity estimation in stenoses. 2021; 117:106558. doi: 10.1016/j.ultras.2021.106558

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34461527/
