PMID: 34462879
Title: Selection of preoperative stress electrocardiography test for appropriate patients with non-small cell lung cancer.

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: Lobectomy is an established surgical procedure for treating non-small cell lung cancer; however, it significantly impacts postoperative cardiac function. The stress electrocardiography test is relatively easy to perform and is used to confirm the presence of coronary artery stenotic lesions. However, it has a low pre-test probability and may yield many false positives. We examined the factors that would enable the appropriate selection of patients for stress electrocardiography as a preoperative cardiovascular examination preceding lobectomy for non-small cell lung cancer.
METHODS: From June 2016 to July 2018, 240 patients at our institution who underwent stress electrocardiography before lobectomy for primary lung cancer were included in this study. Clinical information was extracted from electronic medical records and evaluated retrospectively. Smoking history, diabetes, hypertension, dyslipidemia, and ischemic heart disease were considered risk factors for coronary artery stenosis. We determined the coronary risk factors that were applicable to each participant and calculated the total number of coronary risk factors as a risk score.
RESULTS: Patients with coronary risk factor scores of ≥ 3 were significantly more likely to have abnormal stress electrocardiography results. In addition, these patients also underwent more comprehensive examinations to identify coronary diseases. There were no patients with complications that could be attributed to ischemic heart disease.
CONCLUSION: Stress electrocardiography may be more useful before lobectomy in non-small cell lung cancer patients if the patients are appropriately selected, with the test utilized mainly in patients with coronary risk factor scores of ≥ 3.

Citation: Tamagawa S, et al. Selection of preoperative stress electrocardiography test for appropriate patients with non-small cell lung cancer. Selection of preoperative stress electrocardiography test for appropriate patients with non-small cell lung cancer. 2022; 70:139-143. doi: 10.1007/s11748-021-01692-4

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34462879/
