PMID: 34468438
Title: Pain Relief After Selective Nerve Root Block as a Predictor of Postoperative Functional Outcome in Patients with Degenerative Lumbar Spinal Stenosis Patients Undergoing Decompressive Surgery.

Abstract: STUDY DESIGN: Retrospective study of data collected prospectively.
OBJECTIVE: To investigate changes in the degree of lower leg radiating pain (LLRP) after selective nerve root block (SNRB) and to evaluate associations of this change with postoperative improvements in symptom severity, functional outcomes, and quality of life.
SUMMARY OF BACKGROUND DATA: SNRB is routinely performed as an initial treatment for lumbar foraminal or lateral recess stenosis with LLRP. The degree of improvement after SNRB has been suggested to predict the improvement in postoperative pain and functional outcomes. However, there have been no studies on the predictive value of this parameter.
METHODS: We enrolled 60 patients who underwent SNRB followed by decompressive surgery. They were divided into three groups. The degree of improvement was evaluated as a percentage of the pre-injection values. Functional outcomes of the spine were assessed using the Oswestry Disability Index (ODI) and Roland-Morris Disability Questionnaire (RMDQ). Quality of life was assessed using the 36-item Short Form Survey (SF-36) physical component score (PCS) and mental component score (MCS). The degree of LLRP was measured preoperatively and at 6, 12, and 24 months after surgery. These functional outcomes were evaluated preoperatively and at 12 and 24 months after surgery.
RESULTS: The improvement in LLRP in the short term (6 hours after SNRB) was found to be statistically significantly associated with the improvement in LLRP at 12 months after SNRB (P = 0.044, correlation coefficient = 0.261). No relationship between pain improvement after SNRB and functional outcome was identified.
CONCLUSION: The degree of improvement in symptoms 6 hours after SNRB can predict the degree of improvement in LLRP at 12 months after surgery. However, symptomatic improvement after SNRB does not predict postoperative functional outcome or quality of life.Level of Evidence: 4.

Citation: Ko S, et al. Pain Relief After Selective Nerve Root Block as a Predictor of Postoperative Functional Outcome in Patients with Degenerative Lumbar Spinal Stenosis Patients Undergoing Decompressive Surgery. Pain Relief After Selective Nerve Root Block as a Predictor of Postoperative Functional Outcome in Patients with Degenerative Lumbar Spinal Stenosis Patients Undergoing Decompressive Surgery. 2022; 47:666-671. doi: 10.1097/BRS.0000000000004216

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34468438/
