PMID: 34468062
Title: Complex gastroschisis: a new indication for fetal surgery?

Abstract: Gastroschisis (GS) is a congenital abdominal wall defect, in which the bowel eviscerates from the abdominal cavity. It is a non-lethal isolated anomaly and its pathogenesis is hypothesized to occur as a result of two hits: primary rupture of the 'physiological' umbilical hernia (congenital anomaly) followed by progressive damage of the eviscerated bowel (secondary injury). The second hit is thought to be caused by a combination of mesenteric ischemia from constriction in the abdominal wall defect and prolonged amniotic fluid exposure with resultant inflammatory damage, which eventually leads to bowel dysfunction and complications. GS can be classified as either simple or complex, with the latter being complicated by a combination of intestinal atresia, stenosis, perforation, volvulus and/or necrosis. Complex GS requires multiple neonatal surgeries and is associated with significantly greater postnatal morbidity and mortality than is simple GS. The intrauterine reduction of the eviscerated bowel before irreversible damage occurs and subsequent defect closure may diminish or potentially prevent the bowel damage and other fetal and neonatal complications associated with this condition. Serial prenatal amnioexchange has been studied in cases with GS as a potential intervention but never adopted because of its unproven benefit in terms of survival and bowel and lung function. We believe that recent advances in prenatal diagnosis and fetoscopic surgery justify reconsideration of the antenatal management of complex GS under the rubric of the criteria for fetal surgery established by the International Fetal Medicine and Surgery Society (IFMSS). Herein, we discuss how conditions for fetoscopic repair of complex GS might be favorable according to the IFMSS criteria, including an established natural history, an accurate prenatal diagnosis, absence of fully effective perinatal treatment due to prolonged need for neonatal intensive care, experimental evidence for fetoscopic repair and maternal and fetal safety of fetoscopy in expert fetal centers. Finally, we propose a research agenda that will help overcome barriers to progress and provide a pathway toward clinical implementation. © 2021 International Society of Ultrasound in Obstetrics and Gynecology.

Citation: Joyeux L, et al. Complex gastroschisis: a new indication for fetal surgery?. Complex gastroschisis: a new indication for fetal surgery?. 2021; 58:804-812. doi: 10.1002/uog.24759

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34468062/
