PMID: 34463816
Title: Twelve years of neonatal hearing screening: audiological and etiological results.

Abstract: PURPOSE: Most developed countries have implemented some form of universal newborn hearing screening program. Early identification and rehabilitation of congenital hearing loss is important in functional outcome, and the need to identify the cause of hearing impairment has become clear. We aimed to evaluate audiological and etiological outcomes in a large group of patients with failed neonatal hearing screening.
METHODS: We performed a retrospective chart analysis of patients who were referred to our tertiary referral center after failing neonatal hearing screening during a 12-year period (2007-2019). Screening was based on automated auditory brainstem response (AABR) or a combined approach of AABR and auditory steady-state response (ASSR) with chirp stimulus. Extensive audiometric testing was performed to confirm and determine the type and degree of hearing loss. In case of permanent hearing loss, a standardized etiological protocol was followed to determine the cause.
RESULTS: Of the 802 referred newborns, hearing loss was confirmed by diagnostic ABR in 78%. Main causes of hearing loss included otitis media with effusion (56%, higher in patients screened by AABR/ASSR compared to AABR), a genetic disorder (12%), congenital cytomegalovirus infection (cCMV, 5%) and atresia/stenosis of the external ear canal (5%). Of the patients with permanent hearing loss, 15% showed changes in hearing loss severity over time.
CONCLUSION: In the majority of newborns referred after failing universal neonatal hearing screening, hearing loss could be confirmed. The leading cause was reversible hearing loss due to otitis media with effusion, but hearing loss proved permanent in about 35% of referred newborns, with genetics as predominant cause. Follow-up of congenital hearing loss patients is important as deterioration as well as improvement was observed over time.

Citation: Acke FRE, et al. Twelve years of neonatal hearing screening: audiological and etiological results. Twelve years of neonatal hearing screening: audiological and etiological results. 2022; 279:3371-3378. doi: 10.1007/s00405-021-07060-5

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34463816/
