PMID: 34461239
Title: Expedient Endovascular Hemorrhage Control During Anterior Lumbar Spinal Exposure Allows Procedural Completion in Rescued Patients.

Abstract: OBJECTIVES: To propose a contemporary management strategy for venous injury during anterior lumbar spinal exposure that incorporates endovascular treatment.
METHODS: Vein injuries suffered by patients treated in a single practice were reviewed. A treatment algorithm based on these experiences was formulated.
RESULTS: Between 2015 and 2018, 914 patients received anterior access procedures for indicated lumbar interbody fusions. Of these patients, 15 (1.6%) suffered minor vascular injuries treated with manual pressure or suture repair. Four (0.4%) patients undergoing anterior lumbar spine surgery suffered major venous injuries, all of whom received the indicated spinal hardware following endovascular rescue. Primary repair was attempted in three patients before endovascular control and not at all in one. Vascular access was obtained via the bilateral femoral veins in 2 patients, unilateral femoral in one, and bilateral femoral plus right internal jugular vein in one. Stent choice included both uncovered (5, 63%) and covered stents (3, 38%). Deep venous thrombosis occurred in 2 patient's post-treatment. 1 DVT was encountered in the setting of a covered stent and 1 uncovered stent thrombosis was treated with catheter-directed lysis 4 weeks post-operatively. Ultimately, 3 patients were therapeutically anticoagulated. Mean follow-up is 13 months (range 1-36) with duplex ultrasounds available at 6 months or later in 3 of 4 patients. There is no evidence of post-thrombotic syndrome in the 2 patients that developed DVT's or in-stent stenosis in the 3 patients with available follow-up imaging.
CONCLUSIONS: Endovascular techniques are important adjuncts when controlling large-volume hemorrhage associated with venous tears during anterior spinal exposure. Adequate direct compression allowing occlusion balloon inflation are key steps to reduce blood loss. Covered and uncovered stents are both appropriate choices to treat injuries. Patients must be anticoagulated post-operatively and surveilled for the sequelae of venous insufficiency. With expedient hemostasis, the indicated spinal surgery may be safely completed.

Citation: Schoeff JE, et al. Expedient Endovascular Hemorrhage Control During Anterior Lumbar Spinal Exposure Allows Procedural Completion in Rescued Patients. Expedient Endovascular Hemorrhage Control During Anterior Lumbar Spinal Exposure Allows Procedural Completion in Rescued Patients. 2022; 78:377.e5-377.e10. doi: 10.1016/j.avsg.2021.05.061

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34461239/
