PMID: 34476173
Title: Kidney allograft infarction associated with transplant renal artery stenosis in a COVID-19 kidney transplant recipient.

Abstract: Kidney allograft infarction is rare, but an urgent condition that requires prompt intervention to avoid allograft loss. Renal artery thrombosis is the leading cause of infarction. Apart from traditional risk factors for thrombosis, emerging SARS-CoV-2 predisposes patients to thrombotic diseases both in arterial and venous vasculatures. We report a case of kidney transplant recipient with known transplant renal artery stenosis (TRAS) status post angioplasty with severe COVID-19, complicated by oliguric acute kidney injury requiring continuous renal replacement therapy (CRRT). She did not have a history of thromboembolic disease. The hospital course was complicated by new-onset atrial and ventricular fibrillation and cardiac arrest requiring multiple rounds of cardiopulmonary resuscitation. She had no signs of renal recovery, and an abdominal CT scan showed evidence of allograft infarcts. She underwent an allograft nephrectomy. Pathology revealed diffuse thrombotic microangiopathy involving glomeruli, arterioles, and arteries associated with diffuse cortical infarction with negative SARS-CoV-2 immunostain and in situ hybridization. This is the first case of kidney allograft infarct with a history of TRAS in a COVID-19 patient. Underlying TRAS and COVID-19-associated thrombosis in this patient are unique and likely play a key role in allograft infarction from arterial thrombosis. Recognizing risk factors and early therapy for allograft infarction may improve transplant outcomes.

Citation: Tantisattamo E, et al. Kidney allograft infarction associated with transplant renal artery stenosis in a COVID-19 kidney transplant recipient. Kidney allograft infarction associated with transplant renal artery stenosis in a COVID-19 kidney transplant recipient. 2021; 9:93-104. doi: 10.5414/CNCS110462

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34476173/
