PMID: 34476560
Title: Stenotic intercondylar notch is not a risk factor for posterior cruciate ligament rupture: a morphological analyses using magnetic resonance imaging.

Abstract: PURPOSE: The present study aimed to examine the factors related to the morphological characteristics of the femoral condyle in posterior cruciate ligament rupture in female and male populations.
METHODS: One hundred and three patients (41 females, 62 males) with posterior cruciate ligament rupture from 2010 to 2020 were included in this retrospective case-control study. The sex and age of the posterior cruciate ligament rupture group were matched to those of the control group (41 females, 62 males; age range 16-69 years). Magnetic resonance imaging was used to measure the intercondylar notch width, femoral condylar width, and intercondylar notch angle in both the axial and coronal images. The 'α' angle was also measured using magnetic resonance imaging. The notch width index is the ratio of the intercondylar notch width to the femoral condylar width. Three types of intercondylar notch shapes (types A, U, and W) were evaluated in the axial magnetic resonance imaging images.
RESULTS: The difference in the mean coronal notch width index between the study groups was statistically significant in the female population. The difference in the mean coronal femoral condylar width between the study groups was statistically significant in the male population.
CONCLUSIONS: A larger coronal notch width index was the greatest risk factor for posterior cruciate ligament rupture in the female population. In the male population, decreased coronal condylar width was the greatest risk factor for posterior cruciate ligament rupture. The results did not indicate that patients with a PCL rupture have a stenotic intercondylar notch. Posterior cruciate ligament injury prevention strategies could be applied to females with a larger coronal notch width index and males with a decreased condylar width.
LEVELS OF EVIDENCE: Level III.

Citation: Liu F, et al. Stenotic intercondylar notch is not a risk factor for posterior cruciate ligament rupture: a morphological analyses using magnetic resonance imaging. Stenotic intercondylar notch is not a risk factor for posterior cruciate ligament rupture: a morphological analyses using magnetic resonance imaging. 2022; 30:1711-1717. doi: 10.1007/s00167-021-06724-3

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34476560/
