PMID: 34475916
Title: Study on the correlation between Left Ventricular Hypertrophy and Coronary Artery disease in the very elderly patients with hypertension.

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: To investigate the relationship between left ventricular hypertrophy (LVH) and coronary artery disease in the very elderly (over 80 years old) patients with hypertension.
METHODS: One hundred twenty cases of very elderly patients with hypertension admitted to our hospital from March 2018 to December 2020 were selected and divided into two groups: the LVH group and the non-LVH group, all of whom were older aged over 80 years, including 62 patients in the LVH group and 58 patients in the non-LVH group. All patients underwent cardiac color Doppler ultrasound examination, 24-hour dynamic ECG examination, and coronary angiography or coronary CTA examination. The clinical data of the two groups were analyzed statistically.
RESULTS: There were significant differences in the number of diseased vessels, degree of coronary stenosis and vascular calcification between the two groups (P<0.05). Moreover, the results of risk factors for the degree of coronary artery disease in the two groups showed that the history of diabetes, 2hPG and LVH were independent risk factors for the three-vessel disease, while the history of LVH, FPG and alcohol intake were independent risk factors for diffuse lesions, but there was no statistical difference in the correlation between them and the degree of coronary stenosis.
CONCLUSION: LVH is an independent risk factor for coronary artery stenosis and calcification in the very elderly patients with hypertension, but there is no statistical difference in the correlation between LVH and the degree of coronary stenosis.

Citation: Sun JH, et al. Study on the correlation between Left Ventricular Hypertrophy and Coronary Artery disease in the very elderly patients with hypertension. Study on the correlation between Left Ventricular Hypertrophy and Coronary Artery disease in the very elderly patients with hypertension. 2021; 37:1382-1386. doi: 10.12669/pjms.37.5.4135

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34475916/
