PMID: 34474007
Title: AIM2 inflammasome mediates apoptotic and pyroptotic death in the cerebellum following chronic hypoperfusion.

Abstract: Vascular dementia (VaD) is the second most common form of dementia and is caused by vascular pathologies resulting in chronic cerebral hypoperfusion (CCH)- induced brain injury, and ultimately cognitive impairment and memory loss. Several lines of evidence have demonstrated chronic inflammation may be involved in VaD disease progression. It is now recognized that a major contributor to cerebral and systemic chronic inflammation involves the activation of innate immune molecular complexes termed inflammasomes. Whilst previous studies on animal models of VaD have focused on the cortex, hippocampus and striatum, few studies have investigated the effect of CCH on the cerebellum. Emerging studies have found new roles of the cerebellum in cognition, based on its structural interconnectivity with other brain regions and clinical relevance in neuropsychological deficits. In the present study, we conducted our investigation on the cerebellum using a CCH mouse model of VaD following bilateral common carotid artery stenosis (BCAS). This study is the first to characterize an increased expression of inflammasome receptors, adaptor and effector proteins, markers of inflammasome activation, proinflammatory cytokines, and apoptotic and pyroptotic cell death proteins in the cerebellum following CCH. Furthermore, in AIM2 knockout mice, we observed attenuated inflammasome-mediated production of proinflammatory cytokines, apoptosis, and pyroptosis in the cerebellum following CCH. Collectively, our findings provide novel evidence that AIM2 inflammasome activation promotes apoptosis and pyroptosis in the cerebellum following chronic hypoperfusion in a mouse model of VaD.

Citation: Poh L, et al. AIM2 inflammasome mediates apoptotic and pyroptotic death in the cerebellum following chronic hypoperfusion. AIM2 inflammasome mediates apoptotic and pyroptotic death in the cerebellum following chronic hypoperfusion. 2021; 346:113856. doi: 10.1016/j.expneurol.2021.113856

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34474007/
