PMID: 34480450
Title: [Endoscopic treatment of bronchial complications after lung transplantation].

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: To analyze the incidence and structure of bronchial complications following lung transplantation and evaluate an effectiveness of endoscopic treatment of these events.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: The study enrolled 50 patients after bilateral lung transplantation (24 men and 26 women). Mean age of patients was 35.4±5 (19; 61) years. Ischemia of bronchial mucous membrane of the transplant was intraoperatively and postoperatively analyzed. We also assessed severity and prevalence of anastomotic and non-anastomotic cicatricial bronchial stenoses.
RESULTS: All patients after lung transplantation were diagnosed with bronchial complications, i.e. ischemia of bronchial mucous membrane of the transplant. In 76% of patients, these complications did not require endoscopic treatment. Surgical and endoscopic treatment was required in 24% of cases. Three patients (6%) underwent intraoperative correction of bronchial anastomosis. Bronchial suture failure was diagnosed in 3 patients (6%), cicatricial bronchial stenosis - in 6 (12%) cases. Endoscopic stenting was effective for recovery of bronchial patency with complete epithelialization of mucous membrane. Stenting of lobar bronchus with application of mitomycin C was effective in patients with non-anastomotic stenoses type III after lung transplantation.
CONCLUSION: Major bronchial complications occurred in 24% of patients after lung transplantation. Endoscopic treatment of bronchial complications using a self-fixing silicone endoprosthesis after lung transplantation was effective in all patients with anastomotic and non-anastomotic cicatricial strictures. Mitomycin C prevented excessive growth of granulation and scar tissue.

Citation: Gasanov AM, et al. [Endoscopic treatment of bronchial complications after lung transplantation]. [Endoscopic treatment of bronchial complications after lung transplantation]. 2021; (unknown volume):12-18. doi: 10.17116/hirurgia202109112

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34480450/
