PMID: 34496169
Title: The serum levels of testosterone in coronary artery disease patients; relation to NO, eNOS, endothelin-1, and disease severity.

Abstract: OBJECTIVES: The changes in testosterone level and its correlation with the endothelial nitric oxide systems balance in patients with coronary artery disease (CAD) remains uncertain. Therefore, in our study, we aimed to evaluate the levels of testosterone, endothelin-1 (ET-1), nitric oxide (NO), and endothelial NOS (eNOS) in CAD patients, and control group to find the relationship between these parameters and disease severity.
METHODS: Forty-four patients as CAD group with significant (≥50%) stenosis confirmed by angiography was included in the study, and 40 healthy men were included as the control group. According to the number of vessels obstruction, CAD severity was determined. The serum indicated parameters were assessed to discriminate between patients and controls.
RESULTS: It was found that testosterone levels in the CDA group were significantly lower than those of the control group (p<0.05). In addition, the level of ET-1 in the CAD group was higher than that in the control group, but levels of NO and eNOS in observation were significantly lower than those in the control group (p<0.05). The correlation analysis revealed that testosterone was passivity correlated with serum NO levels (r=0.550, p=0.001).
CONCLUSIONS: The current study reports that serum levels of testosterone are closely related to endothelial NO levels and might be of relevance to the pathogenesis of endothelial dysfunction and disease severity in CAD patients.

Citation: Akseh S, et al. The serum levels of testosterone in coronary artery disease patients; relation to NO, eNOS, endothelin-1, and disease severity. The serum levels of testosterone in coronary artery disease patients; relation to NO, eNOS, endothelin-1, and disease severity. 2021; 43:55-61. doi: 10.1515/hmbci-2021-0026

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34496169/
