PMID: 34496284
Title: CCL2 loaded microparticles promote acute patency in silk-based vascular grafts implanted in rat aortae.

Abstract: Cardiovascular disease is the leading cause of death worldwide, often associated with coronary artery occlusion. A common intervention for arterial blockage utilizes a vascular graft to bypass the diseased artery and restore downstream blood flow; however, current clinical options exhibit high long-term failure rates. Our goal was to develop an off-the-shelf tissue-engineered vascular graft capable of delivering a biological payload based on the monocyte recruitment factor C-C motif chemokine ligand 2 (CCL2) to induce remodeling. Bi-layered silk scaffolds consisting of an inner porous and outer electrospun layer were fabricated using a custom blend of Antherea Assama and Bombyx Mori silk (lyogel). Lyogel silk scaffolds alone (LG), and lyogel silk scaffolds containing microparticles (LGMP) were tested. The microparticles (MPs) were loaded with either CCL2 (LGMP+) or water (LGMP-). Scaffolds were implanted as abdominal aortic interposition grafts in Lewis rats for 1 and 8 weeks. 1-week implants exhibited patency rates of 50% (7/14), 100% (10/10), and 100% (5/5) in the LGMP-, LGMP+, and LG groups, respectively. The significantly higher patency rate for the LGMP+ group compared to the LGMP- group (p = 0.0188) suggests that CCL2 can prevent acute occlusion. Immunostaining of the explants revealed a significantly higher density of macrophages (CD68+ cells) within the outer vs. inner layer of LGMP- and LGMP+ constructs but not in LG constructs. After 8 weeks, there were no significant differences in patency rates between groups. All patent scaffolds at 8 weeks showed signs of remodeling; however, stenosis was observed within the majority of explants. This study demonstrated the successful fabrication of a custom blended silk scaffold functionalized with cell-mimicking microparticles to facilitate controlled delivery of a biological payload improving their in vivo performance. STATEMENT OF SIGNIFICANCE: This study outlines the development of a custom blended silk-based tissue-engineered vascular graft (TEVG) for use in arterial bypass or replacement surgery. A custom mixture of silk was formulated to improve biocompatibility and cellular binding to the tubular scaffold. Many current approaches to TEVGs include cells that encourage graft cellularization and remodeling; however, our technology incorporates a microparticle based delivery platform capable of delivering bioactive molecules that can mimic the function of seeded cells. In this study, we load the TEVGs with microparticles containing a monocyte attractant and demonstrate improved performance in terms of unobstructed blood flow versus blank microparticles. The acellular nature of this technology potentially reduces risk, increases reproducibility, and results in a more cost-effective graft when compared to cell-based options.

Citation: Lorentz KL, et al. CCL2 loaded microparticles promote acute patency in silk-based vascular grafts implanted in rat aortae. CCL2 loaded microparticles promote acute patency in silk-based vascular grafts implanted in rat aortae. 2021; 135:126-138. doi: 10.1016/j.actbio.2021.08.049

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34496284/
