PMID: 34497063
Title: Comparative evaluation of coronary disease burden: bicuspid valve disease is not atheroprotective.

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: Bicuspid aortic valve (BAV) has been associated with less atherosclerosis as compared with tricuspid aortic valve (TAV) patients. It, however, remains unclear whether this reflects the older age of TAV patients and/or accumulation of atherosclerotic risk factors or that the BAV phenotype is atheroprotective. Therefore, we compared the atherosclerotic disease burden of BAV and TAV patients, with that of the general (age-matched) population.
METHODS: The prevalence of coronary artery disease (CAD) and CAD risk factors in BAV and TAV patients who underwent aortic valve surgery were compared with the Dutch general practitioners registry data. BAV (n=454) and TAV (n=1101) patients were divided into four groups: BAV with aortic valve stenosis (BAV-AoS), BAV with aortic valve regurgitation (BAV-AR), TAV with AoS (TAV-AoS) and TAV with AR (TAV-AR). The atherosclerotic disease burden of each group was compared with that of the corresponding age cohort for the general population.
RESULTS: CAD risk factors hypertension and hypercholesterolaemia were more prevalent in the surgery groups than the age-matched general population (all p<0.001). All BAVs (BAV-AoS and BAV-AR) and TAV-AR had a similar incidence of CAD history as compared to the age-matched general populations (p=0.689, p=0.325 and p=0.617 respectively), whereas TAV-AoS had a higher incidence (21.6% versus 14.9% in the age-matched general population, p<0.001).
CONCLUSIONS: Stenotic TAV disease is part of the atherosclerotic disease spectrum, while regurgitant TAV and all BAVs are not. Although the prevalence of cardiovascular risk factors is higher in all BAV patients, the prevalence of CAD is similar to the general population.

Citation: Dolmaci OB, et al. Comparative evaluation of coronary disease burden: bicuspid valve disease is not atheroprotective. Comparative evaluation of coronary disease burden: bicuspid valve disease is not atheroprotective. 2021; 8:(unknown pages). doi: 10.1136/openhrt-2021-001772

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34497063/
