PMID: 34490586
Title: Endoscopic Transforaminal Lumbar Foraminotomy: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis.

Abstract: INTRODUCTION: Spinal endoscopic techniques have recently been applied to complex degenerative conditions or failed back surgery syndrome. We performed a systematic review and meta-analysis to assess transforaminal endoscopic lumbar foraminotomy (TELF) outcomes and adverse event rates. We also analyzed the effectiveness of the technique for chronic pain after arthrodesis or previous spinal surgery.
METHODS: Multiple databases were searched for studies published in the English language, involving patients > 18 years old who underwent endoscopic foraminotomy. Outcomes included the rate of patients who showed "excellent" and "good" postoperative improvement, decreased leg pain, and improved Oswestry Disability Index (ODI) scores. Adverse events considered in the analysis included nerve root damage and intraoperative dural tear, the proportion of patients requiring revision surgery or recurrences, and infections.
RESULTS: A total of 14 studies, encompassing 600 patients, were identified. Approximately 85% of patients improved significantly after TELF, without significant differences among different groups (85% vs. 78%, respectively). Mean leg pain decreased an average of 5.2 points, and ODI scores improved by 41.2%. Patients with previous spine surgery or failed back surgery syndrome had higher postoperative leg dysesthesia rates after TELF (14% vs. 1%, respectively).
CONCLUSION: TELF is a useful and safe method to achieve decompression in foraminal stenosis. This technique is indicated in the elderly or patients with comorbidities. Preoperative planning is paramount in determining the foraminal size and endoscope trajectory. A diamond burr is recommended because it has an advantage over the regular endoscopic shaver in bleeding control and complication avoidance.

Citation: Giordan E, et al. Endoscopic Transforaminal Lumbar Foraminotomy: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis. Endoscopic Transforaminal Lumbar Foraminotomy: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis. 2021; 10:1481-1495. doi: 10.1007/s40122-021-00309-1

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34490586/
