PMID: 34503313
Title: Aspiration-Retriever Technique for Stroke with Large Bore Intermediate Catheter : A Single Center Experience.

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: Early successful reperfusion is associated with favorable outcomes in acute ischemic stroke (AIS). The purpose of this study was to achieve successful recanalization by a combined mechanical thrombectomy technique, the Aspiration-Retriever Technique for Stroke (ARTS), which is composed of a flexible large lumen distal access catheter and a retrievable stent as the first-line strategy of mechanical thrombectomy.
METHODS: We retrospectively reviewed 62 patients with AIS who underwent mechanical thrombectomy from 2018 to 2019 at our institute by a senior neurointerventionalist. Among them, patients who were treated using the ARTS technique with the soft torqueable catheter optimized for intracranial access (SOFIA®; MicroVention-Terumo, Tustin, CA, USA) as the first-line treatment were included. Patients who had tandem occlusions or underlying intracranial artery stenosis were excluded. The angiographic and clinical outcomes were evaluated. The angiographic outcome was analyzed by the rate of successful recanalization, defined as a Thrombolysis in Cerebral Infarction score of 2b or 3 at the end of all procedures and the rate of successfully achieving the first pass effect (FPE), defined as complete recanalization with a single pass of the device. The clinical outcomes included the National Institutes of Health Stroke Scale (NIHSS) score, modified Rankin Scale (mRS), and mortality.
RESULTS: A total of 27 patients (mean age, 59.3 years) fulfilled the inclusion criteria. The successful recanalization rate was 96% (n=26) while the FPE rate was 41% (n=11). The mean post-procedural NIHSS change was -3.0. Thirteen patients (48%) showed good clinical outcomes after thrombectomy with the ARTS technique (mRS at 90 days ≤2). Postoperative complications occurred in seven of 25 patients : hemorrhagic transformation in six patients (22%) and distal embolization in one patient (4%). Mortality was 15% (n=4).
CONCLUSION: Although the clinical outcomes using the ARTS technique with a flexible large lumen distal access catheter performed as the frontline thrombectomy in patients with AIS were not significantly superior than those of other studies, this study showed a high rate of successful endovascular recanalization which was comparable to that of other studies. Therefore, ARTS using the SOFIA® catheter can be considered as the first choice of treatment for AIS due to large vessel occlusion.

Citation: Nam JW, et al. Aspiration-Retriever Technique for Stroke with Large Bore Intermediate Catheter : A Single Center Experience. Aspiration-Retriever Technique for Stroke with Large Bore Intermediate Catheter : A Single Center Experience. 2021; 64:732-739. doi: 10.3340/jkns.2020.0308

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34503313/
