PMID: 34505631
Title: The ClearSight System for Postoperative Arterial Blood Pressure Monitoring After Carotid Endarterectomy: A Validation Study.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: The majority of postoperative events in patients undergoing carotid endarterectomy (CEA) are of hemodynamic origin, requiring preventive strict postoperative arterial blood pressure (BP) control. This study aimed to assess whether BP monitoring with noninvasive beat-to-beat ClearSight finger BP (BPCS) can replace invasive beat-to-beat radial artery BP (BPRAD) in the postoperative phase.
METHODS: This study was a single-center clinical validation study using a prespecified study protocol. In 48 patients with symptomatic carotid artery stenosis, BPCS and BPRAD were monitored ipsilateral in a simultaneous manner during a 6-hour period on the recovery unit following CEA. Primary endpoints were accuracy and precision of BP derived by ClearSight (Edward Lifesciences, Irvine, CA) vs. the reference standard (Arbocath 20 G, Hospira, Lake Forest, IL) to investigate if BPCS is a reliable noninvasive alternative for BP monitoring postoperatively in CEA patients. Validation was guided by the standard set by the Association for Advancement of Medical Instrumentation (AAMI), considering a BP-monitor adequate when bias (precision) is <5 (8) mm Hg. Secondary endpoint was percentage under- and overtreatment, defined as exceedance of individual postoperative systolic BP threshold by BPRAD or BPCS in contrast to BPCS or BPRAD, respectively.
RESULTS: The bias (precision) of BPCS compared to BPRAD was -10 (13.6), 8 (7.2) and 4 (7.8) mm Hg for systolic, diastolic and mean arterial pressure (MAP), respectively. Based on BPCS, undertreatment was 5.6% and overtreatment was 2.4%; however, percentages of undertreatment quadrupled for lower systolic BP thresholds.
CONCLUSIONS: Noninvasive MAP, but not systolic and diastolic BP, was similar to invasive BPRAD during postoperative observation following CEA, based on AAMI criteria. However, as systolic BP is currently leading in postoperative monitoring to adjust BP therapy on, BPCS is not a reliable alternative for BPRAD.

Citation: Fassaert LMM, et al. The ClearSight System for Postoperative Arterial Blood Pressure Monitoring After Carotid Endarterectomy: A Validation Study. The ClearSight System for Postoperative Arterial Blood Pressure Monitoring After Carotid Endarterectomy: A Validation Study. 2022; 35:164-172. doi: 10.1093/ajh/hpab140

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34505631/
