PMID: 34500200
Title: Serial Radiological Findings in Meningovascular Neurosyphilis Presenting as Acute Ischemic Stroke: A Case Report.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Meningovascular neurosyphilis, a form of early neurosyphilis, can cause infectious arteritis, which can be complicated by cerebral infarction. High-resolution vessel wall imaging (HR-VWI) is one of the techniques used to directly visualize the vessel wall. Herein, we present a rare case of meningovascular neurosyphilis, in which intracranial arterial vasculitis was evaluated using HR-VWI.
CASE PRESENTATION: A 22-year-old man with no medical history of any condition was brought to the emergency room with one day history of right upper and lower extremity weakness. Diffusion-weighted magnetic resonance (MR) imaging showed a high signal from the left putamen to the corona radiata, and MR angiography showed stenosis of the right internal carotid artery (ICA) and the bilateral middle cerebral arteries (MCAs). HR-VWI showed thickening, along with smooth, intense, and concentric enhancement of the right ICA and the bilateral MCAs. The patient was diagnosed with neurosyphilis based on the findings of the blood tests and cerebrospinal fluid examination. The patient's symptoms gradually improved after treatment with intravenous penicillin G and oral antiplatelet agents. HR-VWI, performed approximately 6 months after the treatment, revealed improvement in the contrast enhancement of the vessel wall and the vascular stenosis.
CONCLUSION: To the best of our knowledge, this is the first report of meningovascular neurosyphilis that evaluated the course of treatment using HR-VWI. Our report highlights the effectiveness of HR-VWI to determine the effects of treatment on meningovascular neurosyphilis.

Citation: Inui R, et al. Serial Radiological Findings in Meningovascular Neurosyphilis Presenting as Acute Ischemic Stroke: A Case Report. Serial Radiological Findings in Meningovascular Neurosyphilis Presenting as Acute Ischemic Stroke: A Case Report. 2021; 30:106087. doi: 10.1016/j.jstrokecerebrovasdis.2021.106087

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34500200/
