PMID: 34513195
Title: Parkinsonism secondary to ventriculoperitoneal shunt in a patient with hydrocephalus.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Parkinsonism secondary to the treatment of obstructive hydrocephalus due to stenosis of the cerebral aqueduct, with implantation of a ventricular peritoneal (VP) shunt is a rare complication, still poorly described and disseminated in the literature.
CASE DESCRIPTION: A 38-year-old male presented a history of moderate-intensity daily headache, which deteriorated 2 months before admission, with no changes in the neurological examination. Magnetic resonance imaging showed hypertensive hydrocephalus associated with cerebral aqueduct stenosis. A VP shunt was performed, an adjustable pressure valve was successfully inserted, and he was discharged asymptomatic. However, months later, he progressed with important symptoms of hypo- and hyper-drainage, which persisted after valve pressure adjustments and even its exchange, culminating into an endoscopic third ventriculostomy (ETV). But soon after, severe Parkinsonian syndrome appeared. Therapy with levodopa and bromocriptine was initiated, revealing a slow response initially but good evolution within 6 months. At present, he presents low-intensity residual tremor, which is well controlled with medications, and has regained independence for daily activities, with minimal motor limitation and no cognitive changes.
CONCLUSION: There is still no mechanism that explains the occurrence of Parkinsonian syndrome in these cases. It is suggested that the rostral portion of the midbrain was injured due to abrupt changes in the transtentorial gradient pressure after the ventricular shunt, along with various adjustments in the valve pressure. ETV and early introduction of levodopa therapy in patients who developed postventriculoperitoneal shunt Parkinsonism seems to be the most effective combination, with satisfactory clinical response in the medium/long term.

Citation: da Costa AC, et al. Parkinsonism secondary to ventriculoperitoneal shunt in a patient with hydrocephalus. Parkinsonism secondary to ventriculoperitoneal shunt in a patient with hydrocephalus. 2021; 12:432. doi: 10.25259/SNI_629_2021

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34513195/
