PMID: 34511491
Title: Carotid artery vulnerable plaque model for cerebrovascular events by conventional ultrasound & contrast-enhanced ultrasound: A preliminary study.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Conventional ultrasound and contrast-enhanced ultrasound play an important role in the application of carotid plaque.
AIMS: To establish carotid artery vulnerable plaques model by conventional ultrasound combined with contrast-enhanced ultrasound, identify high-risk plaques that may lead to cerebrovascular events, and provide clinical risk warning of high-risk plaques of stroke.
METHODS: 205 cases of patients selected in 5053 patients with symptoms from 2018 to 2019 who were verified carotid plaques by conventional ultrasound and contrast-enhanced ultrasound image characteristics, 147 cases as a training set, establishing the carotid artery plaque model, analyzing the characteristic of the plaques and the relationship between cerebrovascular event, with 58 cases as a test set, verify the model. Routine carotid ultrasound and contrast-enhanced carotid ultrasound were performed in all enrolled patients.
RESULTS: The gray-level characteristics of conventional ultrasound in the training concentration showed statistical differences in plaque morphology, fibrous cap morphology, uniformity and calcification degree in cerebrovascular events. The contrast enhanced ultrasound characteristics of plaques showed statistical differences in neovascularization and perfusion mode in cerebrovascular events. In the test set, there were statistical differences in the above conventional gray scale features and CEUS features.
CONCLUSION: The vulnerable plaque model established by conventional ultrasound combined with contrast-enhanced ultrasound has good diagnostic value for the characteristic plaque of carotid artery with cerebrovascular events.

Citation: Wang Q, et al. Carotid artery vulnerable plaque model for cerebrovascular events by conventional ultrasound & contrast-enhanced ultrasound: A preliminary study. Carotid artery vulnerable plaque model for cerebrovascular events by conventional ultrasound & contrast-enhanced ultrasound: A preliminary study. 2022; 80:197-209. doi: 10.3233/CH-211216

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34511491/
