PMID: 34528074
Title: Vascular imaging of patients with refractory Takayasu arteritis treated with tocilizumab: post hoc analysis of a randomized controlled trial.

Abstract: OBJECTIVES: Tocilizumab, an anti-IL-6 receptor antibody, was investigated in patients with refractory Takayasu arteritis (TAK) in a phase 3 randomized controlled trial. In this post hoc analysis, we investigated whether tocilizumab treatment inhibited the progression of vascular lesions caused by TAK in these patients.
METHODS: Included patients received at least one dose of tocilizumab and underwent CT at baseline and at week 48 after tocilizumab initiation. Three radiologists not involved in the original trial independently evaluated the CT images. Twenty-two arteries from each patient were assessed for change from baseline in wall thickness (primary endpoint), dilatation/aneurysm, stenosis/occlusion or wall enhancement for at least 96 weeks after tocilizumab initiation. Patient-level assessments were also conducted.
RESULTS: In 28 patients, 86.7% of 22 arteries had improved or stable wall thickness at week 96. Proportions of patients with improved or stable, partially progressed or newly progressed lesions were 57.1%, 10.7% and 28.6%, respectively, for wall thickness; proportions with improved or stable lesions were 92.9% for dilatation/aneurysm, and 85.7% for stenosis/occlusion. Patients with newly progressed lesions, reflecting more refractory disease, were prescribed glucocorticoids at dosages that could not be reduced below 0.1 mg/kg/day at week 96.
CONCLUSIONS: Approximately 60% of patients with TAK did not experience progression in wall thickness within 96 weeks after initiation of tocilizumab treatment. Few patients experienced progressed dilatation/aneurysm, or stenosis/occlusion. Wall thickness progression likely resulted from refractory TAK. Patients who experience this should be monitored regularly by imaging, and additional glucocorticoid or immunosuppressive treatment should be considered to avoid vascular progression.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: Japan Pharmaceutical Information Centre number, JapicCTI-142616.

Citation: Nakaoka Y, et al. Vascular imaging of patients with refractory Takayasu arteritis treated with tocilizumab: post hoc analysis of a randomized controlled trial. Vascular imaging of patients with refractory Takayasu arteritis treated with tocilizumab: post hoc analysis of a randomized controlled trial. 2022; 61:2360-2368. doi: 10.1093/rheumatology/keab684

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34528074/
