PMID: 34520801
Title: Interaction of SOX5 with SOX9 promotes warfarin-induced aortic valve interstitial cell calcification by repressing transcriptional activation of LRP6.

Abstract: Calcific aortic valve disease (CAVD) is an important health burden due to its increasing prevalence and lack of available approaches. Osteogenic transdifferentiation of aortic valve interstitial cells (AVICs) contributes to valve calcification. SRY-related HMG-box transcription factor 5 (SOX5) is essential for cartilage development. Whether SOX5 is involved in AVIC calcification has not been determined. This study aimed to explore the role of SOX5 in warfarin-induced AVIC calcification. Immunostaining showed decreased SOX5 in human calcific AV and warfarin induced mouse calcific AV tissues compared with human noncalcific AV and control mouse AV tissues. In calcific human AVICs (hAVICs) and porcine AVICS (pAVICs), both knockdown and overexpression of SOX5 inhibited calcium deposition and osteogenic marker gene expression. Protein expression assays and ChIP assays showed that overexpression of SOX5 led to increased recruitment of SOX5 to the SOX9 promoter and resulted in increased mRNA and protein expression of SOX9. Coimmunoprecipitation and immunofluorescence showed that SOX5 binds to SOX9 with its HMG domain in nucleus. Blue Native PAGE showed overexpression of SOX5 led to multimeric complex formation of SOX5 and resulted in decreased binding of SOX5 to SOX9 similar to the results of knockdown of SOX5. Further ChIP and western blotting assays showed that both knockdown and overexpression of SOX5 resulted in SOX9 initiating transcription of anti-calcific gene LRP6 in warfarin-treated pAVICs. Knockdown of LRP6 rescues the anti-calcification effect of SOX5 overexpression. We found that both loss and gain of function of SOX5 lead to the same phenotype: decreased warfarin induced calcification. The stoichiometry of SOX5 is crucial for cooperation with SOX9, SOX9 nuclear localization and subsequent binding of SOX9 to LRP6 promoter. These results suggest that SOX5 is a potential target for the development of anti-calcification therapy.

Citation: Qiu M, et al. Interaction of SOX5 with SOX9 promotes warfarin-induced aortic valve interstitial cell calcification by repressing transcriptional activation of LRP6. Interaction of SOX5 with SOX9 promotes warfarin-induced aortic valve interstitial cell calcification by repressing transcriptional activation of LRP6. 2022; 162:81-96. doi: 10.1016/j.yjmcc.2021.09.003

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34520801/
