PMID: 34524496
Title: Conduction delays after transcatheter aortic valve implantation with balloon-expandable prosthesis and high implantation technique.

Abstract: Performing transcatheter aortic valve implantation with high implantation technique, i.e. with an aorto-ventricular ratio > 60/40, reduces the need of permanent pacemaker implantation. Valve calcification and prosthesis oversizing are predictors of permanent pacemaker implantation, but there are no available data on their role when transcatheter aortic valve implantation is performed with an aorto-ventricular ratio > 60/40. The aim of this study was to evaluate the effect of leaflets/annulus calcification and prosthesis oversizing on the incidence of permanent pacemaker implantation after transcatheter aortic valve implantation with a high implantation technique. Transcatheter aortic valve implantation was performed in 48 patients implanting a balloon-expandable transcatheter heart valve with an aorto-ventricular ratio > 60/40. Calcium burden was assessed by preprocedural multidetector computed tomography. An invasive electrophysiological study was performed before and after transcatheter aortic valve implantation. Five patients (10.4%) needed permanent pacemaker implantation. At univariate analysis, baseline right bundle branch block and postprocedural PR, QRS and His-ventricular interval elongation significantly predicted permanent pacemaker implantation (p < 0.05). Receiver-operating characteristic curve analysis showed a correlation between transcatheter heart valve oversizing and permanent pacemaker implantation need, with the best cut-off being 17% (AUC = 0.72, p = 0.033). Linear regression analysis demonstrated that QRS complex elongation was related to total, left and non-coronary leaflet calcification (p < 0.05). This study demonstrates that, when transcatheter aortic valve implantation is performed using a balloon-expandable transcatheter heart valve deployed with an aorto-ventricular ratio > 60/40, the presence of leaflets/annulus calcification or the need to oversize the prosthesis correlate with the occurrence of pathological cardiac conduction delays.

Citation: Iacovelli F, et al. Conduction delays after transcatheter aortic valve implantation with balloon-expandable prosthesis and high implantation technique. Conduction delays after transcatheter aortic valve implantation with balloon-expandable prosthesis and high implantation technique. 2022; 37:337-346. doi: 10.1007/s00380-021-01913-z

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34524496/
