PMID: 34529257
Title: Prevalence and impact of fracture on postmenopausal women with aortic stenosis who underwent transcatheter aortic valve replacement.

Abstract: Information regarding fracture in patients with transcatheter aortic valve replacement (TAVR) is limited. We investigated the prevalence and impact of fracture in patients with severe aortic stenosis who had undergone TAVR. Of 913 consecutive patients with symptomatic, severe aortic stenosis who underwent TAVR at the Sakakibara Heart Institute between October 2013 and April 2020, 633 women were enrolled. The primary endpoint was all-cause mortality following TAVR. Patients with a history of fracture displayed smaller body mass indices, increased frailty, a higher prevalence of osteoporosis, and stroke history. Notably, 61.7% of patients with a history of fracture reported to have not taken any osteoporosis medications. Estimated all-cause mortality survival rates post-TAVR were significantly lower in patients with fractures than those without fractures. In the multivariate analysis, history of fracture was independently associated with all-cause mortality following TAVR. Furthermore, fracture prevalence was significantly greater in those who had a higher clinical frailty scale score were slower in the 5-m walk test, had more severe dementia as per the revised Hasegawa dementia scale, and performed poorly in the hand grip strength test. History of fracture was an independent predictor for all-cause mortality in patients undergoing TAVR. In addition, our study demonstrated that osteoporotic fracture may be under-treated in this population. History of fracture may be one of the phenotypes of frailty given its significant relationship with frailty markers in this population.

Citation: Saji M, et al. Prevalence and impact of fracture on postmenopausal women with aortic stenosis who underwent transcatheter aortic valve replacement. Prevalence and impact of fracture on postmenopausal women with aortic stenosis who underwent transcatheter aortic valve replacement. 2022; 37:543-548. doi: 10.1007/s12928-021-00812-4

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34529257/
