PMID: 34529121
Title: [Conservative or surgical treatment of chronic pancreatitis?].

Abstract: The cardinal symptom of chronic pancreatitis is severe belt-like upper abdominal pain, which requires immediate and adequate treatment. Furthermore, advanced stage chronic pancreatitis is often associated with complications, such as pancreatic pseudocysts, pancreatic duct stones and stenosis as well as biliary stenosis. The various endoscopic and surgical treatment options for chronic pancreatitis patients have been controversially discussed for decades. The new German S3 guidelines on pancreatitis now clearly define the best treatment options depending on the indications for treatment. For the treatment of pain in chronic pancreatitis it has been known for a long time that a surgical intervention is superior to endoscopic intervention concerning long-term pain relief. The recently published ESCAPE study has further underlined this by showing that early surgical intervention was superior to a step-up approach with initial endoscopic treatment. For the treatment of pancreatic pain, an initial endoscopic treatment attempt is therefore justified for short-term pain relief but in the midterm and long term, surgical intervention is the treatment of choice. In contrast, pancreatic pseudocysts, solitary proximally situated pancreatic duct stones and benign biliary strictures (except in calcifying pancreatitis) can nowadays generally be managed endoscopically. For distal pancreatic duct stones and symptomatic pancreatic duct stenosis surgical treatment is again the method of choice. This review article discusses these indication-related procedures in detail and explains them in relation to the recently published S3 guidelines on pancreatitis of the German Society for Gastroenterology, Digestive and Metabolic Diseases (DGVS).

Citation: D'Haese JG, et al. [Conservative or surgical treatment of chronic pancreatitis?]. [Conservative or surgical treatment of chronic pancreatitis?]. 2021; 62:1025-1033. doi: 10.1007/s00108-021-01167-x

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34529121/
