PMID: 34523793
Title: Correlation Analysis for Selection of Microtitanium Plates with Different Specifications for Use in a Cervical Vertebral Dome Expansion Laminoplasty.

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: To analyze correlations between the selection of microtitanium plates with different specifications for use in a cervical vertebral dome expansion laminoplasty.
METHODS: Sixteen patients that underwent the cervical vertebral dome expansion laminoplasty with a cervical spinal stenosis angioplasty procedure for treatment of their cervical spinal cords were recruited at our hospital. From February 2017 to September 2018, medical records confirmed that all patients underwent cervical CT and MRI tests pre- and postsurgery. The anteroposterior diameter of the spinal canal, changes in the cross-sectional area of the spinal canal, and the pre- and postsurgery distance of the cervical spinal cord after applying microtitanium plates with different lengths were measured by Mimics version 17.0 software (Materialise NV, Leuven, Belgium). A statistical regression and correlation analysis of relevant specification parameters of the microtitanium plate was then studied.
RESULTS: As the size of the microtitanium plate increased, we found that the cross-sectional area of cervical spinal canal and distance between the descendants of the lamina and the distance of cervical spinal cord concordantly increased, and these data changes linearly. The regression equation associated with sagittal diameter, cross-sectional area, and posterior movement distance of the cervical spinal cord was obtained.
CONCLUSION: According to the correlation analysis of imaging data changes, the regression equation was obtained to guide the selection of microtitanium plates with appropriate specifications in a cervical vertebral dome expansion laminoplasty.

Citation: Zhou RT, et al. Correlation Analysis for Selection of Microtitanium Plates with Different Specifications for Use in a Cervical Vertebral Dome Expansion Laminoplasty. Correlation Analysis for Selection of Microtitanium Plates with Different Specifications for Use in a Cervical Vertebral Dome Expansion Laminoplasty. 2021; 13:2000-2007. doi: 10.1111/os.13102

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34523793/
