PMID: 34534413
Title: Initial in-human experience with the conveyor cardiovascular system for the delivery of large profile transcatheter valve devices.

Abstract: OBJECTIVES: To determine the safety and efficacy of the conveyor cardiovascular system (CCS) to facilitate the delivery of large profile transcatheter valve devices.
BACKGROUND: Transcatheter valve devices rely on force provided by the operator to be delivered to their intended position. This delivery may be challenging in a variety of anatomic scenarios. The ability to provide steering from the tip of the device by forming an arterial venous loop may help overcome these challenges.
METHODS: Between May, 2019 and October, 2020, five patients were recruited for delivery of transcatheter valve devices with the CCS. These patients were deemed by the operators to have challenging anatomy which could make conventional valve delivery difficult or impossible. These patients were recruited as part of an FDA approved early feasibility study or through an institutional review board approved compassionate use protocol.
RESULTS: Three patients underwent transcatheter mitral valve replacement with a SAPIEN-3 valve. One patient each underwent transcatheter aortic valve (TAVR) implantation with a SAPIEN 3 and 1 patient underwent TAVR implantation with a Lotus valve. All patients underwent successful implantation of the valve and removal of the CCS and valve delivery systems. There was no more than trivial mitral regurgitation post procedure in any patient and there was no more than trivial paravavular leak. There were no major in-hospital complications.
CONCLUSIONS: The CCS facilitates the delivery of large profile transcatheter valve devices in challenging anatomic scenarios. Further studies are needed with additional valve technologies.

Citation: O'Neill BP, et al. Initial in-human experience with the conveyor cardiovascular system for the delivery of large profile transcatheter valve devices. Initial in-human experience with the conveyor cardiovascular system for the delivery of large profile transcatheter valve devices. 2022; 99:943-948. doi: 10.1002/ccd.29956

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34534413/
