PMID: 34535078
Title: Ruptured sinus of valsalva aneurysm presenting as syncope and hypotension: a case report.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Unruptured sinus of valsalva aneurysm (SOVA) are typically asymptomatic, and hence can be easily ignored. Ruptured sinus of valsalva aneurysm (RSOVA) usually protrude into the right atrium or ventricular. However, in this case, the RSOVA protruded into the space between the right atrium and the visceral pericardium leading to compression of the right proximal coronary artery. Very few such cases have been reported till date.
CASE PRESENTATION: We describe a case of ruptured right SOVA in a 61-year-old man with syncope and persistent hypotension. At the beginning, considered the markedly elevated troponin, acute myocardial infarction was considered. However, emergency coronary angiography unexpectedly revealed a large external mass compressed right coronary artery (RCA) resulting in severe proximal stenosis. Then, aorta computed tomography angiography (CTA) and urgent surgery confirmed that the ruptured right SOVA led to external compression of the right proximal coronary artery. Finally, ruptured right SOVA repair and RCA reconstruction were successfully performed, and the patient was discharged with no residual symptoms.
CONCLUSIONS: It is very important to be vigilant about the existence of SOVA. RSOVA should be suspected in a patient presenting with acute hemodynamic compromise, and echocardiography should be immediately performed. Moreover, it is very important to achieve dynamic monitoring by using cardiac color ultrasound. Definitive diagnosis often requires cardiac catheterization, and an aortogram should be performed unless endocarditis is suspected.

Citation: Zhuo GY, et al. Ruptured sinus of valsalva aneurysm presenting as syncope and hypotension: a case report. Ruptured sinus of valsalva aneurysm presenting as syncope and hypotension: a case report. 2021; 21:449. doi: 10.1186/s12872-021-02247-4

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34535078/
