PMID: 34532397
Title: A narrative review of plaque and brain imaging biomarkers for stroke risk stratification in patients with atherosclerotic carotid artery disease.

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: In this narrative review, we aim to review imaging biomarkers that carry the potential to non-invasively guide stroke risk stratification for treatment optimization.
BACKGROUND: Carotid atherosclerosis plays a fundamental part in the occurrence of ischemic stroke. International guidelines select the optimal treatment strategy still mainly based on the presence of clinical symptoms and the degree of stenosis for stroke prevention in patients with atherosclerotic carotid plaques. These guidelines, based on randomized controlled trials that were conducted three decades ago, recommend carotid revascularization in symptomatic patients with high degree of stenosis versus a conservative approach for most asymptomatic patients. Due to optimization of best medical therapy and risk factor control, it is suggested that a subgroup of symptomatic patients is at lower risk of stroke and may not benefit from revascularization, whereas a selective subgroup of high-risk asymptomatic patients would benefit from this procedure.
METHODS: A literature search was performed for articles published up to December 2020 using PubMed, EMBASE and Scopus. Based on the literature found, change in stenosis degree and volume, plaque echolucency, plaque surface, intraplaque haemorrhage, lipid-rich necrotic core, thin fibrous cap, inflammation, neovascularization, microembolic signals, cerebrovascular reserve, intracranial collaterals, silent brain infarcts, diffusion weighted imaging lesions and white matters lesions have the potential to predict stroke risk.
CONCLUSIONS: The applicability of imaging biomarkers needs to be further improved before the potential synergistic prognostic ability of imaging biomarkers can be verified on top of the clinical biomarkers. In the future, the routine and combined assessment of both plaque and brain imaging biomarkers might help to improve optimization of treatment strategies in individual patients with atherosclerotic carotid artery disease.

Citation: Donners SJA, et al. A narrative review of plaque and brain imaging biomarkers for stroke risk stratification in patients with atherosclerotic carotid artery disease. A narrative review of plaque and brain imaging biomarkers for stroke risk stratification in patients with atherosclerotic carotid artery disease. 2021; 9:1260. doi: 10.21037/atm-21-1166

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34532397/
