PMID: 34531107
Title: Association of triglyceride-glucose index and high-sensitivity C-reactive protein with asymptomatic intracranial arterial stenosis: A cross-sectional study.

Abstract: BACKGROUND AND AIMS: Triglyceride-glucose index (TyG) and high-sensitivity C-reactive protein (hsCRP) have been shown to play important roles in the pathophysiological mechanisms of atherogenesis. However, the cumulative value of TyG and hsCRP in identifying asymptomatic intracranial arterial stenosis (aICAS), as well as its severity and numerical burden, is uncertain. This study seeks to fill this knowledge gap.
METHODS AND RESULTS: This study included 1938 participants aged ≥40 years who were free of stroke or transient ischemic attack. All participants were classified into four groups based on the participants' TyG and hsCRP levels, including low-TyG and low-hsCRP, low-TyG and high-hsCRP, high-TyG and low-hsCRP, and high-TyG and high-hsCRP groups. The presence of aICAS was screened via transcranial Doppler ultrasound and confirmed by magnetic resonance angiography. The TyG was calculated as ln [fasting triglyceride (mg/dL) × fasting glucose (mg/dL)/2]. We used multinomial logistic regression analysis to investigate the cumulative value of TyG and hsCRP on identifying the severity of aICAS or its numerical burden. After adjustment for conventional confounders, isolated high-hsCRP, isolated high-TyG, and high-TyG combined with high-hsCRP were independently associated with moderate-to-severe aICAS. Compared with the low-TyG and low-hsCRP group, participants with high-TyG and high-hsCRP had a 2.6 times higher odds ratio (OR) of having a single moderate-to-severe aICAS and a 3.3 times higher OR of having multiple moderate-to-severe aICASs.
CONCLUSION: The cumulative value of TyG and hsCRP may better identify moderate-to-severe aICAS as well as its numerical burden.

Citation: Zhang N, et al. Association of triglyceride-glucose index and high-sensitivity C-reactive protein with asymptomatic intracranial arterial stenosis: A cross-sectional study. Association of triglyceride-glucose index and high-sensitivity C-reactive protein with asymptomatic intracranial arterial stenosis: A cross-sectional study. 2021; 31:3103-3110. doi: 10.1016/j.numecd.2021.07.009

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34531107/
