PMID: 34537688
Title: Feasibility and Clinical Impact of Point-of-Care Carotid Artery Examinations by Experts using Hand-Held Ultrasound Devices in Patients with Ischemic Stroke or Transitory Ischemic Attack.

Abstract: BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: To evaluate the feasibility and clinical influence of carotid artery examinations in patients admitted with stroke or TIA with hand-held ultrasound by experts, to identify individuals not in need of further carotid artery diagnostics.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Cardiologists experienced in carotid ultrasound examined 80 patients admitted to a stroke unit with suspected stroke or TIA with hand-held ultrasound devices (HUD). Grey scale and color Doppler images were stored using a GE Vscan with dual probe (phased array and linear transducer). High-end triplex ultrasound performed by a cardiologist, blinded to the details of the HUD study, was performed in all patients and used as reference. Computer tomography angiography was performed when clinically indicated.
RESULTS: Stroke or TIA was diagnosed in 62 (78%) patients. Age was median (range) 72 (23-93) years. A significant stenosis (> 50% diameter reduction) was ruled out in 61 (76%) of patients by the HUD examinations. Sensitivity and specificity for diagnosing a significant stenosis was 92% and 93%, respectively. One of 12 significant stenoses was missed by HUD. All four patients in need of surgery were identified by the HUD examination. Sensitivity and specificity to identify a significant stenosis by HUD was 87% and 83%, respectively, compared to CT angiography.
CONCLUSION: HUD examinations of the carotid arteries by experts, using hand-held ultrasound devices, were feasible and may reduce the need for high-end diagnostic imaging of the carotid vessels in patients with stroke and TIA. Thus, HUD may improve diagnostic workflow in stroke units in the future.

Citation: Saxhaug LM, et al. Feasibility and Clinical Impact of Point-of-Care Carotid Artery Examinations by Experts using Hand-Held Ultrasound Devices in Patients with Ischemic Stroke or Transitory Ischemic Attack. Feasibility and Clinical Impact of Point-of-Care Carotid Artery Examinations by Experts using Hand-Held Ultrasound Devices in Patients with Ischemic Stroke or Transitory Ischemic Attack. 2021; 30:106086. doi: 10.1016/j.jstrokecerebrovasdis.2021.106086

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34537688/
