PMID: 34544451
Title: Effects of chemerin and homocysteine levels and their associations with occurrence and development of ischemic cerebrovascular disease.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: The current study was conducted to explore the effects of chemerin and homocysteine (Hcy) levels and their associations with the occurrence and development of ischemic cerebrovascular disease (ICVD).
METHODS: There involved a total of 187 patients with ICVD and 190 healthy people for physical examination in Cangzhou Central hospital from January 2020 to April 2021. The participants enrolled were divided into four groups based on the digital subtraction angiography: mild stenosis group (64 cases, stenosis rate 30-49 %), moderate stenosis group (72 cases, stenosis rate 50-69 %), severe stenosis group (51 cases, stenosis rate 70-99 %) and control group (190 cases, in healthy condition). The laboratory indexes of ICVD group and control group were observed and the four groups were further compared. Pearson linear correlation was applied to analyze the link between chemerin and Hcy levels and the degree of cerebral vascular stenosis in ICVD patients, and multivariate logistic regression was used to analyze the influencing factors of ICVD.
RESULTS: No significant difference was found in general information including age, gender, body mass index (BMI), heart rate, systolic blood pressure, diastolic blood pressure, smoking and drinking between the two groups (P > 0.05). Moreover, there was no significant difference in fasting blood glucose (FBG), total cholesterol (TC) and high density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL-C) levels between the two groups (P > 0.05). However, the levels of triglyceride (TG), low density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C), chemerin and Hcy in ICVD group were significantly higher than those in control group (P < 0.05). When comparing the four groups, there was no significant difference in FBG and TC levels (P > 0.05). The levels of TG, LDL-C, chemerin and Hcy in mild, moderate and severe stenosis groups were higher than those in control group, the above levels in moderate and severe stenosis group were higher than those in mild stenosis group, and severe stenosis group higher than moderate stenosis group (P < 0.05). Chemerin and Hcy levels were positively correlated with the degree of cerebral vascular stenosis in ICVD patients (r = 0.612, 0.519, P < 0.001). ICVD was regarded as the dependent variable, and the abovementioned general data as well as significant laboratory indicators, including TG, LDL-C, chemerin and Hcy, as independent variables. The results of multivariate logistic regression analysis revealed that TG, LDL-C, chemerin and Hcy were independent influencing factors of ICVD.
CONCLUSIONS: Chemerin and Hcy levels exerted a close link to the occurrence and development of ICVD as independent influencing factors.

Citation: Wang L, et al. Effects of chemerin and homocysteine levels and their associations with occurrence and development of ischemic cerebrovascular disease. Effects of chemerin and homocysteine levels and their associations with occurrence and development of ischemic cerebrovascular disease. 2021; 20:108. doi: 10.1186/s12944-021-01524-7

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34544451/
