PMID: 34540074
Title: Influencing factors of coronary artery stenosis in patients with stable coronary heart disease and a correlation analysis.

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: To explore the relationship of the size and concentration of low density lipoprotein (LDL) particles and high density lipoprotein (HDL) particles and the coronary stenotic degree of stable coronary artery disease.
METHODS: Altogether 62 patients with coronary disease confirmed by coronary angiography treated in our hospital from March 2019 to March 2020 were selected as the observation group, and 62 healthy persons in the same period were chosen as the control group. The particle size of LDL and HDL protein complexes were measured and we then calculated the concentration ratio to explore the relationship between the two types of lipoprotein particles and the degree of coronary artery disease. The Gensini integral method and the lesion numbers were used to evaluate the coronary stenotic degree.
RESULTS: In comparison with the control group, the mean diameter of the average LDL particle in the observation group was smaller, but the type B ratio and Gensini score were higher (P<0.05). In comparison with the control group, the observation group had a higher Sd-LDL concentration ratio, as well as concentration of small-particle HDL, percentage of concentration of small-particle HDL in the whole HDL concentration and Gensini score (P<0.05). In comparison with the single-vessel disease group, the multi-vessel disease group had a smaller LDL concentration, as well as smaller large-particle HDL concentration and percentage of large-particle HDL concentration in the whole HDL concentration, and SD-LDL concentration ratio, small-particle HDL concentration, and percentage of small-particle HDL concentration in the whole HDL concentration and Gensini points were considerably higher (P<0.05). The Gensini score in the observation group showed negative correlations with LDL particle size (r=-0.375, P<0.05), and positive correlations with the concentration of large-particle HDL (r=0.301, P<0.05).
CONCLUSION: The size and concentration of LDL and HDL are significantly related to the coronary stenotic degree in SCAD disease, suggesting that they play a role in the coronary stenotic degree.

Citation: Zhao M, et al. Influencing factors of coronary artery stenosis in patients with stable coronary heart disease and a correlation analysis. Influencing factors of coronary artery stenosis in patients with stable coronary heart disease and a correlation analysis. 2021; 13:9522-9529.

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34540074/
