PMID: 34542599
Title: Localized versus systemic granulomatosis with polyangiitis: data from the French Vasculitis Study Group Registry.

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: To describe the main features at diagnosis and evolution over time of patients with localized granulomatosis with polyangiitis (L-GPA) compared with those of systemic GPA (S-GPA).
METHODS: EULAR definitions of L-GPA, i.e. upper and/or lower respiratory tract involvement, and S-GPA were applied to patients from the French Vasculitis Study Group Registry. L-GPA and S-GPA patients' characteristics at diagnosis and long-term outcomes were analysed and compared.
RESULTS: Among the 795 Registry patients, 79 (10%) had L-GPA. Their main clinical manifestations were rhinitis, lung nodules, sinusitis and otitis. L-GPA vs S-GPA patients at diagnosis, respectively, were younger, more frequently had saddle nose deformity or subglottic stenosis and were less often PR3-ANCA-positive. L-GPA vs S-GPA induction therapy less frequently included CYC but more often a combination of MTX and glucocorticoids; 64% of MTX-treated patients experienced disease progression within 18 months post-diagnosis. L- and S-GPA patients' estimated relapse-free-survival probabilities, relapse rates and refractory disease rates at each time point were comparable, but L-GPA patients had more frequent ENT and lung relapses, and higher overall survival rates (P<0.02). Over a median follow-up of 3.5 years, 18 (22.8%) L-GPA progressed to S-GPA, either as a relapse after a period in remission or more frequently in the context of refractory disease. L-GPA patients experienced more ENT-related damage.
CONCLUSIONS: The relapse risks of L-GPA and S-GPA were similar, but relapse patterns differed and L-GPA overall survival rate was higher. About one-quarter of L-GPA patients developed S-GPA over time, but without end-stage organ involvement.

Citation: Iudici M, et al. Localized versus systemic granulomatosis with polyangiitis: data from the French Vasculitis Study Group Registry. Localized versus systemic granulomatosis with polyangiitis: data from the French Vasculitis Study Group Registry. 2022; 61:2464-2471. doi: 10.1093/rheumatology/keab719

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34542599/
