PMID: 34544949
Title: The Albumin-bilirubin Score Detects Changes in the Liver Function during Treatment for Budd-Chiari Syndrome: A Retrospective Observational Study.

Abstract: Objective Mapping the long-term prognosis of Budd-Chiari syndrome (BCS) is difficult, as the prognosis is associated with changes in the liver function. The present study evaluated the time course changes in the liver function in a treatment group with percutaneous old balloon angioplasty (POBA) and a non-treatment group using the albumin-bilirubin score (ALBI) and Child-Pugh score during long-term follow-up. Methods In this retrospective study, 13 consecutive patients diagnosed with BCS at our hospital between 2007 and 2020 were categorized into a treatment group (n=8), which received POBA, and a non-treatment group (n=5). Differences in the liver function in the ALBI and Child-Pugh scores between the initial visit and one- and three-year follow-up were calculated and statistically evaluated. We investigated the changes in the liver function during the long-term follow-up, including events such as re-stenosis and re-treatment. Results While the Child-Pugh scores in the treatment group did not differ significantly between the initial visit and 1- or 3-year follow-up, the ALBI scores in this group improved significantly between the initial visit and the 1- or 3-year follow-up visit (p=0.0078 and 0.0156, respectively). The liver function according to the ALBI score in the treatment group showed gradual improvement from the initial value but gradual worsening in the non-treatment group. The ALBI scores also revealed that the liver function varies according to re-stenosis and re-POBA in BCS patients. Conclusion Unlike the Child-Pugh score, the ALBI score was able to capture changes in the liver function of BCS patients during the long-term course of BCS.

Citation: Kageyama K, et al. The Albumin-bilirubin Score Detects Changes in the Liver Function during Treatment for Budd-Chiari Syndrome: A Retrospective Observational Study. The Albumin-bilirubin Score Detects Changes in the Liver Function during Treatment for Budd-Chiari Syndrome: A Retrospective Observational Study. 2022; 61:959-967. doi: 10.2169/internalmedicine.8020-21

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34544949/
