PMID: 34555505
Title: G protein-coupled receptor kinase 2 is essential to enable vasoconstrictor-mediated arterial smooth muscle proliferation.

Abstract: Hypertension is associated with increased production and circulation of vasoconstrictors, resulting in enhanced signalling through their cognate G protein-coupled receptors (GPCR). Prolonged vasoconstrictor GPCR signalling increases arterial contraction and stimulates signalling pathways that promote vascular smooth muscle cell (VSMC) proliferation, contributing to the development of atherosclerotic plaques, re-stenosis lesions and vascular remodelling. GPCR signalling through phosphoinositide 3-kinase (PI3K)/protein kinase B (Akt) promotes VSMC proliferation. In VSMC, G protein-coupled receptor kinase 2 (GRK2) is known to regulate numerous vasoconstrictor GPCRs and their downstream signalling pathways. As GRK2 is implicated in controlling various aspects of cellular growth, we examined whether GRK2 could affect VSMC proliferation. Using two indices of cell growth, we show that PI3K inhibition and depletion of GRK2 expression produced a similar ablation of pro-proliferative vasoconstrictor-stimulated VSMC growth. Furthermore, GRK2-knockdown ablated the sustained phase of endothelin-1 and angiotensin-II-stimulated Akt phosphorylation, whilst the peak (5 min) phase was unaffected. Conversely, the GRK2 inhibitor compound 101 did not affect vasoconstrictor-driven Akt phosphorylation. Vasoconstrictor-stimulated phosphorylation of the Akt substrates GSK3α and GSK3β was ablated following RNAi-mediated GRK2 depletion, or after PI3K inhibition. Moreover, GRK2 knockdown prevented endothelin-1 and angiotensin-II from increasing cyclin D1 expression. These data suggest GRK2 expression is essential to facilitate vasoconstrictor-driven VSMC proliferation through its ability to promote efficient prolonged PI3K-Akt signalling, and thus relieve the GSK3-mediated block on cell cycling. Considering VSMC GRK2 expression increases early in the development of hypertension, this highlights the potential for GRK2 to promote VSMC growth and exacerbate hypertensive pathophysiological vascular remodelling.

Citation: Alonazi ASA and Willets JM. G protein-coupled receptor kinase 2 is essential to enable vasoconstrictor-mediated arterial smooth muscle proliferation. G protein-coupled receptor kinase 2 is essential to enable vasoconstrictor-mediated arterial smooth muscle proliferation. 2021; 88:110152. doi: 10.1016/j.cellsig.2021.110152

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34555505/
