PMID: 34558032
Title: Establishment of a Modular Hemodynamic Simulator for Accurate In Vitro Simulation of Physiological and Pathological Pressure Waveforms in Native and Bioartificial Blood Vessels.

Abstract: PURPOSE: In vitro stimulation of native and bioartificial vessels in perfusable systems simulating natural mechanical environments of the human vasculature represents an emerging approach in cardiovascular research. Promising results have been achieved for applications in both regenerative medicine and etiopathogenetic investigations. However, accurate and reliable simulation of the wide variety of physiological and pathological pressure environments observed in different vessels still remains an unmet challenge.
METHODS: We established a modular hemodynamic simulator (MHS) with interchangeable and modifiable components suitable for the perfusion of native porcine-(i.e. the aorta, brachial and radial arteries and the inferior vena cava) and bioartificial fibrin-based vessels with anatomical site specific pressure curves. Additionally, different pathological pressure waveforms associated with cardiovascular diseases including hyper- and hypotension, tachy- and bradycardia, aortic valve stenosis and insufficiency, heart failure, obstructive cardiomyopathy and arterial stiffening were simulated. Pressure curves, cyclic distension and shear stress were measured for each vessel and compared to ideal clinical pressure waveforms.
RESULTS: The pressure waveforms obtained in the MHS showed high similarity to the ideal anatomical site specific pressure curves of different vessel types. Moreover, the system facilitated accurate emulation of physiological and different pathological pressure conditions in small diameter fibrin-based vessels.
CONCLUSION: The MHS serves as a variable in vitro platform for accurate emulation of physiological and pathological pressure environments in biological probes. Potential applications of the system include bioartificial vessel maturation in cardiovascular tissue engineering approaches as well as etiopathogenetic investigations of various cardiovascular pathologies.

Citation: Helms F, et al. Establishment of a Modular Hemodynamic Simulator for Accurate In Vitro Simulation of Physiological and Pathological Pressure Waveforms in Native and Bioartificial Blood Vessels. Establishment of a Modular Hemodynamic Simulator for Accurate In Vitro Simulation of Physiological and Pathological Pressure Waveforms in Native and Bioartificial Blood Vessels. 2022; 13:291-306. doi: 10.1007/s13239-021-00577-0

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34558032/
