PMID: 34551835
Title: Cardiovascular events in perimembranous ventricular septal defect with left ventricular volume overload: a French prospective cohort study (FRANCISCO).

Abstract: UNLABELLED: The long-term prospective multi-centre nationwide (French) observational study FRANCISCO will provide new information on perimembranous ventricular septal defect with left ventricular overload but no pulmonary hypertension in children older than 1 year. Outcomes will be compared according to treatment strategy (watchful waiting, surgical closure, or percutaneous closure) and anatomic features of the defect. The results are expected to provide additional guidance about the optimal treatment of this specific population, which is unclear at present.
BACKGROUND: The management of paediatric isolated perimembranous ventricular septal defect (pmVSD) with left ventricle (LV) volume overload but no pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH) remains controversial. Three therapeutic approaches are considered: watchful waiting, surgical closure, and percutaneous closure. We aim to investigate the long-term outcomes of these patients according to anatomic pmVSD characteristics and treatment strategy.
METHODS: The Filiale de Cardiologie Pediatrique et Congénitale (FCPC) designed the FRANCISCO registry, a long-term prospective nationwide multi-centre observational cohort study sponsored by the French Society of Cardiology, which enrolled, over 2 years (2018–2020), patients older than 1 year who had isolated pmVSD with LV volume overload. Prevalent complications related to pmVSD at baseline were exclusion criteria. Clinical, echocardiographic, and functional data will be collected at inclusion then after 1, 5, and 10 years. A core lab will analyse all baseline echocardiographic data to depict anatomical pmVSD features. The primary outcome is the 5-year incidence of cardiovascular events (infective endocarditis, sub-aortic stenosis, aortic regurgitation, right ventricular outflow tract stenosis, tricuspid regurgitation, PAH, arrhythmia, stroke, haemolysis, heart failure, or death from a cardiovascular event). We plan to enrol 200 patients, given the 10% estimated 5-year incidence of cardiovascular events with a 95% confidence interval of ±5%. Associations linking anatomical pmVSD features and treatment strategy to the incidence of complications will be assessed.
CONCLUSIONS: The FRANSCICO study will provide the long-term incidence of complications in patients older than 1 year with pmVSD and LV volume overload. The results are expected to improve guidance for treatment decisions.

Citation: Guirgis L, et al. Cardiovascular events in perimembranous ventricular septal defect with left ventricular volume overload: a French prospective cohort study (FRANCISCO). Cardiovascular events in perimembranous ventricular septal defect with left ventricular volume overload: a French prospective cohort study (FRANCISCO). 2021; 31:1557-1562. doi: 10.1017/S1047951121002717

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34551835/
