PMID: 34568542
Title: The importance of side branch preservation in the treatment of chronic total occlusions with bifurcation lesions.

Abstract: OBJECTIVES: The aim of this study was to identify the predictive factors for suboptimal result in side branch (SB) in chronic total occlusion (CTO) bifurcation lesions and clinical outcomes of patients with suboptimal result in SB.
BACKGROUND: There is little evidence on the optimal strategy for bifurcation lesions in CTO.
METHODS: We retrospectively reviewed 314 consecutive bifurcation lesions in CTO with SB ≥ 2.5 mm in 3 hospitals from March 2010 to June 2018. Patients were divided into the two groups based on the suboptimal SB treatment (SST) and optimal SB treatment (OST) groups. The baseline characteristics, procedural and clinical outcomes were compared between the two groups. This study also evaluated the predictors of suboptimal result in SB.
RESULTS: Suboptimal result in SB occurred in 47 cases. Presence of stenosis in SB, bifurcations located within the occluded segment and sub-intimal tracking at SB ostium was an independent predictor of suboptimal result in SB. The cumulative incidence of target lesion revascularization (TLR) in all lesions was not significantly different between the two groups, however, TLR in right coronary artery (RCA) was significantly higher in the SST group. In the Cox regression analysis, suboptimal result in SB in RCA and sub-intimal tracking were independent predictors of TLR for MB. In patients with bifurcations located within the occluded segment, usage of two-stent technique was significantly lower in the SST group.
CONCLUSIONS: Meticulous procedures are required for SB preservation to improve not only SB prognosis but also MB, especially in RCA.

Citation: Adachi Y, et al. The importance of side branch preservation in the treatment of chronic total occlusions with bifurcation lesions. The importance of side branch preservation in the treatment of chronic total occlusions with bifurcation lesions. 2021; 36:100873. doi: 10.1016/j.ijcha.2021.100873

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34568542/
