PMID: 34572158
Title: Secondary Pulmonary Vein Stenosis Due to Total Anomalous Pulmonary Venous Connection Repair in Children: Extravascular MDCT Findings.

Abstract: PURPOSE: To evaluate extravascular findings on thoracic MDCT angiography in secondary pulmonary vein stenosis (PVS) due to total anomalous pulmonary venous connection (TAPVC) repair in children.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: All patients aged ≤18 years with a known diagnosis of secondary PVS after TAPVC repair, confirmed by echocardiography, conventional angiography, and/or surgery, who underwent thoracic MDCT angiography studies between July 2008 and April 2021 were included. Two pediatric radiologists independently examined MDCT angiography studies for the presence of extravascular thoracic abnormalities in the lung, pleura, and mediastinum. The location and distribution of each abnormality (in relation to the location of PVS) were also evaluated. Interobserver agreement between the two independent pediatric radiology reviewers was studied using kappa statistics.
RESULTS: The study group consisted of 20 consecutive pediatric patients (17 males, 3 females) with secondary PVS due to TAPVC repair. Age ranged from 2 months to 8 years (mean, 16.1 months). In children with secondary PVS due to TAPVC repair, the characteristic extravascular thoracic MDCT angiography findings were ground-glass opacity (19/20; 95%), septal thickening (7/20; 35%), pleural thickening (17/20; 85%), and a poorly defined, mildly heterogeneously enhancing, non-calcified soft tissue mass (17/20; 85%) which followed the contours of affected pulmonary veins outside the lung. There was excellent interobserver kappa agreement between two independent reviewers for detecting extravascular abnormalities on thoracic MDCT angiography studies (k = 0.99).
CONCLUSION: Our study characterizes the extravascular thoracic MDCT angiography findings in secondary pediatric PVS due to TAPVC repair. In the lungs and pleura, ground-glass opacity, interlobular septal thickening, and pleural thickening are common findings. Importantly, the presence of a mildly heterogeneously enhancing, non-calcified mediastinal soft tissue mass in the distribution of the PVS is a novel characteristic thoracic MDCT angiography finding seen in pediatric secondary PVS due to TAPVC repair.

Citation: Lee EY, et al. Secondary Pulmonary Vein Stenosis Due to Total Anomalous Pulmonary Venous Connection Repair in Children: Extravascular MDCT Findings. Secondary Pulmonary Vein Stenosis Due to Total Anomalous Pulmonary Venous Connection Repair in Children: Extravascular MDCT Findings. 2021; 8:(unknown pages). doi: 10.3390/children8090726

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34572158/
