PMID: 34575216
Title: Outcomes of Endoscopic Ultrasound-Guided Biliary Drainage in a General Hospital for Patients with Endoscopic Retrograde Cholangiopancreatography-Difficult Transpapillary Biliary Drainage.

Abstract: Endoscopic ultrasound-guided biliary drainage (EUS-BD) has been developed as an alternative treatment for percutaneous transhepatic biliary drainage for patients with bile duct stenosis. At specialized hospitals, the high success rate and effectiveness of EUS-BD as primary drainage has been reported. However, the procedure is highly technical and difficult, and it has not been generally performed. In this study, we retrospectively examined the effectiveness of EUS-BD in ERCP-difficult patients with distal bile duct stenosis. We retrospectively examined 24 consecutive cases in which EUS-BD was performed at our hospital for distal bile duct stenosis from October 2018 to December 2020. EUS-guided choledochoduodenostomy (EUS-CDS) was selected for cases that could be approached from the duodenal bulb, and EUS-HGS was selected for other cases. In the EUS-CDS and EUS-HGS groups, the technical success rates were 83.3% (10/12] and 91.7% (11/12], respectively. An adverse event occurred in one case in the EUS-CDS group, which developed severe biliary peritonitis. The stent patency period was 91 and 101 days in the EUS-CDS and EUS-HGS groups, respectively. EUS-BD for ERCP-difficult patients with distal bile duct stenosis is considered to be an effective alternative for biliary drainage that can be performed not only in specialized hospitals but also in general hospitals.

Citation: Kuraoka N, et al. Outcomes of Endoscopic Ultrasound-Guided Biliary Drainage in a General Hospital for Patients with Endoscopic Retrograde Cholangiopancreatography-Difficult Transpapillary Biliary Drainage. Outcomes of Endoscopic Ultrasound-Guided Biliary Drainage in a General Hospital for Patients with Endoscopic Retrograde Cholangiopancreatography-Difficult Transpapillary Biliary Drainage. 2021; 10:(unknown pages). doi: 10.3390/jcm10184105

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34575216/
