PMID: 34583724
Title: A case report of an open aortic valve replacement followed by open adrenalectomy in a patient with symptomatic pheochromocytoma and critical aortic stenosis.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Pheochromocytoma is a rare medical condition caused by catecholamine-secreting tumor cells. Operative resection can be associated with significant hemodynamic fluctuations due to the nature of the tumor, as well as associated post-resection vasoplegia. To allow for cardiovascular recovery before surgery, patients require pre-operative alpha-adrenergic blockade, which would be limited in the setting of co-existent severe aortic stenosis. In this report, we describe a patient with severe aortic stenosis and symptomatic pheochromocytoma.
CASE PRESENTATION: A 51-year-old man with severe aortic stenosis (valve area 0.8 cm2) was found to have a highly active 4 × 4 cm left adrenal pheochromocytoma. Alpha-adrenergic blockade for his pheochromocytoma was limited by syncope in the setting of his aortic stenosis. Open aortic valve replacement (AVR) was performed, followed by adrenalectomy the next day. The perioperative course for each surgical procedure was hemodynamically volatile, exacerbated by severe alcohol withdrawal. During the adrenalectomy, cardiogenic and vasoplegic shock developed immediately after securing the vascular supply to his tumor. This shock was refractory to vasopressin and methylene blue, but responded well to angiotensin II and epinephrine. After both surgeries were completed, his course was further complicated by severe ICU psychosis, ileus, fungal bacteremia, pneumonia/hypoxic respiratory failure and atrial fibrillation. He ultimately recovered and was discharged from the hospital after 38 days.
CONCLUSION: To our knowledge, this is the first report of surgical AVR and pheochromocytoma resection in a patient with critical aortic stenosis. The appropriate order and timing of surgeries when both these conditions co-exist remains controversial.

Citation: Feinstein I, et al. A case report of an open aortic valve replacement followed by open adrenalectomy in a patient with symptomatic pheochromocytoma and critical aortic stenosis. A case report of an open aortic valve replacement followed by open adrenalectomy in a patient with symptomatic pheochromocytoma and critical aortic stenosis. 2021; 16:282. doi: 10.1186/s13019-021-01665-x

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34583724/
