PMID: 34589697
Title: Examining the Association Between Self-Reported Estimates of Function and Objective Measures of Gait and Physical Capacity in Lumbar Stenosis.

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the association of self-reported physical function with subjective and objective measures as well as temporospatial gait features in lumbar spinal stenosis (LSS).
DESIGN: Cross-sectional pilot study.
SETTING: Outpatient multispecialty clinic.
PARTICIPANTS: Participants with LSS and matched controls without LSS (n=10 per group; N=20).
INTERVENTIONS: Not applicable.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Self-reported physical function (36-Item Short Form Health Survey [SF-36] physical functioning domain), Oswestry Disability Index, Swiss Spinal Stenosis Questionnaire, the Neurogenic Claudication Outcome Score, and inertia measurement unit (IMU)-derived temporospatial gait features.
RESULTS: Higher self-reported physical function scores (SF-36 physical functioning) correlated with lower disability ratings, neurogenic claudication, and symptom severity ratings in patients with LSS (P&lt;.05). Compared with controls without LSS, patients with LSS have lower scores on physical capacity measures (median total distance traveled on 6-minute walk test: controls 505 m vs LSS 316 m; median total distance traveled on self-paced walking test: controls 718 m vs LSS 174 m). Observed differences in IMU-derived gait features, physical capacity measures, disability ratings, and neurogenic claudication scores between populations with and without LSS were statistically significant.
CONCLUSIONS: Further evaluation of the association of IMU-derived temporospatial gait with self-reported physical function, pain related-disability, neurogenic claudication, and spinal stenosis symptom severity score in LSS would help clarify their role in tracking LSS outcomes.

Citation: Odonkor CA, et al. Examining the Association Between Self-Reported Estimates of Function and Objective Measures of Gait and Physical Capacity in Lumbar Stenosis. Examining the Association Between Self-Reported Estimates of Function and Objective Measures of Gait and Physical Capacity in Lumbar Stenosis. 2021; 3:100147. doi: 10.1016/j.arrct.2021.100147

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34589697/
