PMID: 34589655
Title: Evaluation of Renal Allograft Vasculature Using Non-contrast 3D Inversion Recovery Balanced Steady-state Free Precession MRA and 2D Quiescent-interval Slice-selective MRA.

Abstract: BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES: Renal transplant patients often require periodic imaging to evaluate the transplant vessel anastomosis for potential vascular complications. The use of non-contrast enhanced magnetic resonance angiography (NCE-MRA) techniques is encouraged in these patients because they are at increased risk of nephrogenic systemic fibrosis (NSF) due to their renal insufficiency. This study aimed to evaluate the performance of two NCE-MRA techniques (three-dimensional [3D] balanced steady-state free precession [bSSFP] with inversion recovery and quiescent-interval slice-selective [QISS]) for the evaluation of renal allograft vasculature in patients with clinical suspicion, or Doppler ultrasound, or both of arterial anastomotic stenosis.
METHODS: A total of 43 patients were included in this retrospective study. Two radiologists independently scored the images from 3D bSSFP and QISS MRA sequences for image quality and confidence in anastomosis interpretation, and the degree of stenosis at the arterial anastomosis. Correlations with digital subtraction angiography (DSA) were carried out when available. In addition, inter-rater agreement was calculated.
RESULTS: In total, 43 patients underwent QISS and 3D bSSFP MRA. For QISS, all cases were adequate for evaluation. For 3D SSFP, 86% of cases were adequate for evaluation. There was a good-to-excellent inter-rater agreement for all scores and an excellent correlation between NCE-MRA and DSA results when available (12 patients).
CONCLUSIONS: QISS and 3D SSFP showed good inter-rater agreement for image quality and stenosis grade, with more cases being of adequate image quality that used QISS. Further study is required; however, NCE-MRA shows potential as a risk-free alternative to CTA and contrast-enhanced MRA (CE-MRA) for the evaluation of arterial anastomoses in renal transplant patients.

Citation: Serhal A, et al. Evaluation of Renal Allograft Vasculature Using Non-contrast 3D Inversion Recovery Balanced Steady-state Free Precession MRA and 2D Quiescent-interval Slice-selective MRA. Evaluation of Renal Allograft Vasculature Using Non-contrast 3D Inversion Recovery Balanced Steady-state Free Precession MRA and 2D Quiescent-interval Slice-selective MRA. 2021; 6:90-98. doi: 10.14218/ERHM.2021.00011

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34589655/
