PMID: 34599417
Title: Electrophysiologic Implications of Transcatheter Aortic Valve Replacement: Incidence, Outcomes, and Current Management Strategies.

Abstract: PURPOSE OF REVIEW: Transcatheter aortic valve replacement (TAVR) has changed the paradigm for management of severe aortic stenosis. Despite substantial procedural advancements, conduction system abnormalities remain a common complication following TAVR. In this review, we describe (1) incidence and risk factors for the development of conduction disturbances following TAVR, along with their prognostic significance, (2) the incidence and prognostic significance of new-onset arrhythmias following TAVR, (3) approach to management of perioperative and post-procedural conduction disturbances and arrhythmias, and (4) novel areas of research.
RECENT FINDINGS: Conduction disturbances including left bundle branch block (LBBB) and high-grade atrioventricular block (HAVB) remain common issues post-TAVR despite advancements in valve technology and improvements in procedural technique. Despite data showing most conduction abnormalities resolve over time, rates of post-procedural permanent pacemaker implantation remain high. Similarly, rates of new-onset or newly detected arrhythmia, particularly atrial fibrillation, have been widely reported post-implantation of all types of TAVR valves. Recent consensus statements and decision pathway documents have been helpful in standardizing an approach to post-TAVR conduction disturbances. New areas of research show promise both for predicting which patients will develop conduction disturbances post-TAVR and for management of HAVB with novel pacing techniques. On the other hand, management of new-onset or newly detected atrial fibrillation after TAVR remains a significant challenge without standardized treatment strategy.

Citation: Barrett C, et al. Electrophysiologic Implications of Transcatheter Aortic Valve Replacement: Incidence, Outcomes, and Current Management Strategies. Electrophysiologic Implications of Transcatheter Aortic Valve Replacement: Incidence, Outcomes, and Current Management Strategies. 2021; 23:167. doi: 10.1007/s11886-021-01599-9

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34599417/
