PMID: 34597905
Title: Aqueous extract of Paeoniae Radix Rubra prevents deep vein thrombosis by ameliorating inflammation through inhibiting GSK3β activity.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Deep vein thrombosis (DVT) is a kind of blood stasis syndrome. Paeoniae Radix Rubra (PRR) has long been widely used for eliminating blood stasis in China, but its effect on DVT has not yet been reported.
PURPOSE: The present study aimed to assess the potential inhibitory effect of the aqueous extract of PRR (i.e.,PRR dispensing granule, PRRDG) on DVT and explore the underlying mechanism.
STUDY DESIGN/METHODS: The chemical profile of PRRDG was analyzed by high-performance liquid chromatography. Sprague-Dawley rats were intragastrically treated with PRRDG (0.625, 1.25 and 1.875 g crude drug/kg/d) once daily for 7 consecutive days. On the sixth day, a model of inferior vena cava (IVC) stenosis-induced DVT was established. All rats were sacrificed on the seventh day. Serum was collected for enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. Thrombus-containing IVC was weighed and further processed for histopathologic examination, immunohistochemical analysis and western blotting. LiCl and LY294002 were adopted to block and increase the activity of glycogen synthase kinase 3β (GSK3β), respectively.
RESULTS: The chemical profile analysis showed that paeoniflorin, benzoylpaeoniflorin, albiflorin, gallic acid and catechin were the main constituents of PRRDG. LiCl decreased thrombus weight, reduced the number of inflammatory cells in thrombus and vein wall, down-regulated phosphorylated NF-κB p65 (p-p65) protein expression. Similarly, PRRDG decreased thrombus weight and tissue factor (TF) protein expression. PRRDG reduced the protein expression levels of P-selectin, monocyte chemoattractant protein-1 (MCP-1), intercellular cell adhesion molecule-1 (ICAM-1) and vascular cell adhesion molecule-1 (VCAM-1) in venous endothelium, serum levels of tumor necrosis factor-α (TNF-α) and interleukin-1β (IL-1β), and the number of inflammatory cells in thrombus and vein wall. Moreover, PRRDG down-regulated p-p65 protein expression and up-regulated phosphorylated GSK3β (p-GSK3β) protein expression. LY294002 abrogated the inhibitory effects of PRRDG on thrombus weight, TF protein expression, TNF-α and IL-1β serum levels, inflammatory cells influxes, and p-p65 protein expression.
CONCLUSION: PRRDG prevents DVT by ameliorating inflammation through inhibiting GSK3β activity.

Citation: Lu Z, et al. Aqueous extract of Paeoniae Radix Rubra prevents deep vein thrombosis by ameliorating inflammation through inhibiting GSK3β activity. Aqueous extract of Paeoniae Radix Rubra prevents deep vein thrombosis by ameliorating inflammation through inhibiting GSK3β activity. 2021; 92:153767. doi: 10.1016/j.phymed.2021.153767

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34597905/
