PMID: 34609321
Title: Surgery With Arterial Resection for Hilar Cholangiocarcinoma: Protocol for a Systematic Review and Meta-analysis.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: In light of recent advances in multimodality treatment, an analysis of vascular resection outcomes in surgery for hilar cholangiocarcinoma is lacking.
OBJECTIVE: The aim of this meta-analysis is to summarize the currently available evidence on outcomes of patients undergoing arterial resection for the treatment of hilar cholangiocarcinoma.
METHODS: A systematic literature search in the databases PubMed/MEDLINE, Cochrane Library, and CINAHL, and the trial registries ClinicalTrials.gov and the World Health Organization International Clinical Trials Registry Platform will be carried out. Predefined outcomes are mortality (100-day and in-hospital), morbidity (Clavien-Dindo classification, any type of complication), vascular complications (thrombosis or stenosis of the portal vein or hepatic artery, pseudoaneurysms), liver failure, postoperative bleeding, duration of surgery, reoperation rate, length of hospital stay, survival time, actuarial survival (2-, 3-, and 5-year survival), complete/incomplete resection rates, histologic arterial invasion, and lymph node positivity (number of positive lymph nodes and lymph node ratio).
RESULTS: Database searches will commence in December 2020. The meta-analysis will be completed by December 2021.
CONCLUSIONS: Our findings will enable us to present the current evidence on the feasibility, safety, and oncological effectiveness of surgery for hilar cholangiocarcinoma with arterial resection. Our data will support health care professionals and patients in their clinical decision-making.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: PROSPERO 223396; https://www.crd.york.ac.uk/prospero/display_record.php?RecordID=223396.
INTERNATIONAL REGISTERED REPORT IDENTIFIER (IRRID): DERR1-10.2196/31212.

Citation: Rebelo A, et al. Surgery With Arterial Resection for Hilar Cholangiocarcinoma: Protocol for a Systematic Review and Meta-analysis. Surgery With Arterial Resection for Hilar Cholangiocarcinoma: Protocol for a Systematic Review and Meta-analysis. 2021; 10:e31212. doi: 10.2196/31212

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34609321/
