PMID: 34601399
Title: Calcific aortic valve stenosis - comparison of inflammatory lesions in the left, right, and non-coronary cusp.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Calcific aortic valve stenosis (CAVS) is the most frequent acquired heart valve disease in the developed world and the most common cause of heart valve replacement, particularly in older adults. It is considered a form of atherosclerosis and, like the latter, of inflammatory pathogenesis.
METHODS: The incidence and severity of features of chronic inflammation (vascularization, cellular infiltration, bone metaplasia, calcification) in surgically resected semilunar cusps of a tricuspid aortic valve in 100 patients with CAVS were assessed. A novel method of placing metal clips during the operation by the surgeon to distinguish individual cusps was implemented, allowing the pathologist to associate lesions to particular cusps. The findings were evaluated statistically.
RESULTS: The median age of the cohort was 73 years. There was a male predominance of 3.5:1. Almost all the patients had a medical history of risk factors - hypertension (92x), diabetes (51x), and dyslipidaemia (85x). Statistical evaluation of the pathological findings showed that the left cusp was least affected by calcification, vascularization, and chronic inflammation, compared to both the right and non-coronary cusps. On the other hand, the left cusp was the most common site of bone metaplasia. The reason for these differences is unknown. We speculate about mechanobiological effects of abnormal hemodynamics.
CONCLUSIONS: Chronic inflammation plays a significant role in pathogenesis of CAVS. Distinguishing the resected aortic valve cusps by placing metal clips is a useful method to study potential differences (topography) in the pathology of individual cusps.

Citation: Šteiner I, et al. Calcific aortic valve stenosis - comparison of inflammatory lesions in the left, right, and non-coronary cusp. Calcific aortic valve stenosis - comparison of inflammatory lesions in the left, right, and non-coronary cusp. 2021; 227:153636. doi: 10.1016/j.prp.2021.153636

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34601399/
