PMID: 34607781
Title: A systematic review and meta-analysis of urethral complications and outcomes in transgender men.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Urologic problems, such as urethral fistulas and strictures, are among the most frequent complications occurring after phalloplasty. Although many studies have reported successful phalloplasty and urethral reconstruction with reliable outcomes in transgender men, no method has become standardized so far. This study aimed to summarize the results of reports on urological complications and outcomes in transgender men with respect to various types of urethral reconstruction.
METHODS: A comprehensive literature search of PubMed, Scopus, and Google Scholar databases was conducted for studies related to phalloplasty in transsexuals. Data on various phallic urethral techniques, urethral complications, and outcomes were collected and analyzed using the random-effects model.
RESULTS: A total of 21 studies (1,566 patients) were included: eight studies (1,061 patients) on "tube-in-tube," nine studies (273 patients) on "prelaminated flap," and six studies (221 patients) on "second flap." Compared with the tube-in-tube technique, the prelaminated flap was associated with a significantly higher urethral stricture/stenosis rate; however, there was no difference between the prelaminated flap and the second flap techniques. For all phalloplasty patients, the pool rate of urethral fistula or stenosis is 48.9%, the rate of the ability to void while standing is 91.5%, occurrence rate of tactile or erogenous sensation is 88%, the prosthesis complication rate is 27.9%, and patient-reported satisfactory outcome rate is 90.5%.
CONCLUSION: Urethral reconstruction with a prelaminated flap was associated with a significantly higher urethral stricture rate and increased need of revision surgery compared with that observed using a skin flap. Overall, most patients were able to void while standing and were satisfied with the outcomes.

Citation: Hu CH, et al. A systematic review and meta-analysis of urethral complications and outcomes in transgender men. A systematic review and meta-analysis of urethral complications and outcomes in transgender men. 2022; 75:10-24. doi: 10.1016/j.bjps.2021.08.006

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34607781/
