PMID: 34607752
Title: Totally Percutaneous Transfemoral Transcatheter Aortic Valve Replacement Despite Failure to Deploy a Vascular Closure Device: A Single-Centre Case Series.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Transcatheter aortic valve replacement (TAVR) is preferably performed as a completely percutaneous procedure via transfemoral access. Suture-mediated vascular closure devices are deployed prior to sheath insertion (pre-closure). Inability to perform pre-closure may necessitate surgical vascular repair of the femoral artery. Patients at increased risk of vascular surgery complications may benefit from a percutaneous method for achieving access site haemostasis. Stent graft implantation is commonly used for treating access site injury following TAVR. This study assessed the feasibility of a strategy of planned stent graft implantation within the femoral artery for achieving access site haemostasis in patients undergoing transfemoral TAVR and in whom vascular pre-closure was not possible.
METHODS: A prospective institutional TAVR registry was retrospectively analysed and a cohort of patients were identified who were selected for transfemoral valve delivery and in whom pre-closure failed and access site haemostasis was achieved by stent graft implantation.
RESULTS: This strategy was used for achieving access site haemostasis in 11 patients (1.5% of 744 patients undergoing transfemoral TAVR). These patients were considered to be at increased risk of vascular surgery complications due to advanced age, frailty, comorbidities, or immobility. Stent graft implantation achieved access site haemostasis in all patients. During follow-up, 30-day mortality was zero, 1-year mortality was 27%, and none of the patients required additional vascular interventions.
CONCLUSION: The preliminary data suggest that planned stent graft implantation within the femoral artery may achieve access site haemostasis and enable a totally percutaneous TAVR procedure, despite failure to perform pre-closure with a suture-based vascular closure device.

Citation: Eitan A, et al. Totally Percutaneous Transfemoral Transcatheter Aortic Valve Replacement Despite Failure to Deploy a Vascular Closure Device: A Single-Centre Case Series. Totally Percutaneous Transfemoral Transcatheter Aortic Valve Replacement Despite Failure to Deploy a Vascular Closure Device: A Single-Centre Case Series. 2022; 31:390-394. doi: 10.1016/j.hlc.2021.09.005

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34607752/
