PMID: 34615809
Title: "Tailor-made" Total Cerebral Protection during Transcatheter Aortic Valve Implantation.

Abstract: Transcatheter aortic valve implantation (TAVI) is an alternative treatment to surgical aortic valve replacement for treating severe aortic stenosis. With the increased use of TAVI, the risk of cerebrovascular complications during the procedure has become an emerging problem. We evaluated the safety and feasibility of our total cerebral protection methods using embolic protection devices (EPDs) for carotid artery stenting. We collected the results of cases in which the clinical team determined that our protection method was necessary among patients undergoing TAVI from May to October 2019 in our medical center. We applied this method to patients who had a potentially high risk of cerebrovascular events during the procedure. The methods of protection were selected comprehensively based on the potential of collateralization of brain perfusion when some arteries were blocked with a balloon, accessibility of the brain arteries, and the ability to cover the brain arteries with devices. Five patients, aged 83.8 ± 1.8 years, were included in the study. Technical success was achieved in all five patients. No cases showed any new neurological symptoms after the procedures; however, head MRI on the day after showed new ischemic lesions in three of five cases (60%). In all cases, emboli were found in the collected filters. This report demonstrates protection of the entire perfusion area in each case using EPDs in patients at high risk of intraoperative embolism. The methods we used were feasible and can potentially reduce cerebrovascular events following TAVI.

Citation: Suzuki K, et al. "Tailor-made" Total Cerebral Protection during Transcatheter Aortic Valve Implantation. "Tailor-made" Total Cerebral Protection during Transcatheter Aortic Valve Implantation. 2021; 61:741-749. doi: 10.2176/nmc.oa.2021-0005

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34615809/
