PMID: 34616258
Title: Diagnosis of Fibrotic Distal Ileum Stenosis after Ischemic Enteritis Using Transabdominal Ultrasonography.

Abstract: Ischemic enteritis (IE) is a rare disorder which is caused by inadequate blood flow to small intestine. The diagnostic procedure of this disease has not sufficiently established because of its rarity. Here, we report a case of IE in a hemodialysis-dependent 70-year-old man and summarize the diagnostic options for IE. The patient was admitted to our hospital because of acute abdominal distention and vomiting. He presented with mild tenderness in the lower abdomen and slightly elevated C-reactive protein level as revealed by blood tests. Radiographic imaging showed small bowel obstruction due to a stricture in the distal ileum. Contrast-enhanced abdominal ultrasonography revealed a 7-cm stenotic site with increased intestinal wall thickening, which preserved mucosal blood perfusion. Elastography revealed a highly elastic alteration of the stenotic lesion, indicating benign fibrotic changes resulting from chronic insufficient blood flow. Based on a clinical diagnosis of IE with fibrous stenosis, a partial ileostomy was performed. After surgical treatment, oral intake was initiated without recurrence of intestinal obstruction. Pathological findings revealed deep ulceration with inflammatory cell infiltration at the stenotic site. Occlusion and hyalinization of the venules in the submucosal layer indicated IE. In addition to current case, we reviewed past case reports of IE. Through this case presentation and literature review, we summarize the usefulness and safety of transabdominal ultrasonography for diagnosing IE.

Citation: Katsumata R, et al. Diagnosis of Fibrotic Distal Ileum Stenosis after Ischemic Enteritis Using Transabdominal Ultrasonography. Diagnosis of Fibrotic Distal Ileum Stenosis after Ischemic Enteritis Using Transabdominal Ultrasonography. 2021; 15:568-577. doi: 10.1159/000516852

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34616258/
