PMID: 34614493
Title: Management of Jugular Bulb Stenosis in Pediatric Vein of Galen Malformation: A Novel Management Paradigm.

Abstract: INTRODUCTION: Pediatric vein of Galen malformations (VOGMs) are fistulous intracranial malformations arising congenitally within the choroidal fissure that can present with an array of neurological and cardiac sequelae. Associated venous stenosis may result in intracranial venous hypertension and ischemia leading to severe, irreversible cerebral injury. Management of neonatal VOGMs typically involves staged embolization and angioplasty/stenting for relief of venous stenosis. Rarely, jugular foraminal narrowing has been identified as causing jugular bulb stenosis.
CASE PRESENTATION: We present the case of a 22-month-old female diagnosed with VOGM prenatally who displayed persistent intracranial venous hypertension despite multiple neuroembolization procedures during the neonatal period. Following initial reduction in arteriovenous shunting, she once again developed venous hypertension secondary to jugular bulb stenosis for which angioplasty was attempted. Failure of angioplasty to relieve the venous hypertension prompted skull base imaging, which revealed jugular foraminal ossification and stenosis. Microsurgical jugular foraminotomy followed by balloon angioplasty and stenting significantly reduced jugular pressure gradients. Restenosis requiring re-stenting developed postoperatively at 9 months, but the patient has remained stable with significant improvement in cortical venous congestion.
DISCUSSION/CONCLUSION: This case demonstrates the efficacy of microsurgical decompression of the jugular foramen and endovascular angioplasty/stenting as a novel treatment paradigm for the management of intracranial venous hypertension in the setting of VOGM.

Citation: Gupta G, et al. Management of Jugular Bulb Stenosis in Pediatric Vein of Galen Malformation: A Novel Management Paradigm. Management of Jugular Bulb Stenosis in Pediatric Vein of Galen Malformation: A Novel Management Paradigm. 2021; 56:584-590. doi: 10.1159/000517653

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34614493/
