PMID: 34616537
Title: Intelligent Algorithm-Based Analysis on Ultrasound Image Characteristics of Patients with Lower Extremity Arteriosclerosis Occlusion and Its Correlation with Diabetic Mellitus Foot.

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: The study focused on the correlation between lower extremity arteriosclerosis and diabetic mellitus (DM) foot, and it was explored by virtue of ultrasound images processed by an intelligent algorithm.
METHODS: A total of 60 DM foot patients admitted to our hospital in the past three years were selected and divided into two groups according to their condition. Patients with DM foot alone were in group B (30 cases), and patients with DM foot combined with lower extremity arteriosclerosis occlusion were in group C (30 cases). 30 healthy people were in group A as a control. Color Doppler ultrasound was used to examine the arteries of the lower extremities of all subjects. It the intramedia thickness (IMT) from the femoral artery to the dorsal foot artery was recorded, whether there was plaque in the artery or knowing the size of the plaque, its echo, and distribution, and whether the artery had stenosis. Next, the stenosis percentage was calculated. Additionally, the general information of patients was analyzed. At the same time, an intelligent algorithm was used to process ultrasound images, and its effects on image quality were evaluated.
RESULTS: Doppler ultrasound images processed by Artificial Bee Colony (ABC) had less noise and better quality, and key information about the lesion was clearly displayed. There was no statistical difference between the general data of the three groups of patients; group B and group C had higher IMT value, plaque incidence, arterial stenosis incidence, and degree of stenosis versus group A, and there were statistically significant differences between groups B and C. In particular, the incidence of femoral artery stenosis and the degree of stenosis were significantly higher in group C than in group B. The rate of stenosis above grade I in group C was as high as 71%, while that in group B was only 19%; in Group C, the incidence of stenosis above grade II was 30%, and that in group B was 13.1%. Compared with group A, group B and group C had decreased peak arterial blood velocity (PSV), resistance index (RI), and pulse index (PI), and there were statistically significant differences between groups B and C.
CONCLUSION: DM foot is a risk factor for arteriosclerosis occlusion; color Doppler ultrasound demonstrates good diagnostic effects on arteriosclerosis occlusion; the algorithm proposed in this study can improve the quality of Doppler ultrasound images and has a high application value.

Citation: Wu Y, et al. Intelligent Algorithm-Based Analysis on Ultrasound Image Characteristics of Patients with Lower Extremity Arteriosclerosis Occlusion and Its Correlation with Diabetic Mellitus Foot. Intelligent Algorithm-Based Analysis on Ultrasound Image Characteristics of Patients with Lower Extremity Arteriosclerosis Occlusion and Its Correlation with Diabetic Mellitus Foot. 2021; 2021:7758206. doi: 10.1155/2021/7758206

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34616537/
