PMID: 34614495
Title: The Value of Dyspnea and Spirometry in Detecting Relapse of Benign Tracheal Stenosis.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Benign tracheal stenosis may relapse after management.
OBJECTIVES: This study aimed to assess the value of dyspnea and spirometry in detecting relapse of benign tracheal stenosis.
METHODS: Patients with benign tracheal stenosis were evaluated post-management, at regular follow-up and emergency visits, with the Medical Research Council (MRC) dyspnea scale, spirometry, and flexible bronchoscopy. Patient visits were categorized and compared, in terms of change in clinical and functional parameters, in 2 groups: visits with relapse (case group) and visits with no relapse (control group). The ability of the MRC dyspnea scale and spirometry to predict relapse was evaluated.
RESULTS: Thirty-five patients with benign tracheal stenosis were included. Mean follow-up duration was 3.2 years (standard deviation = 3.3). Spirometry data were analyzed from 43 relapse visits (23 patients) versus 90 nonrelapse visits. The MRC dyspnea score and most spirometric indices were associated with relapse. In the receiver operating characteristic analysis, forced expiratory volume in 1 s, forced expiratory flow when 25% of forced vital capacity has been expired, peak expiratory flow (PEF), and total peak flow were superior to the MRC dyspnea score in predicting relapse. Among spirometric indices, >10.8% of PEF reduction has been very sensitive and specific.
CONCLUSIONS: This study supports the role of dyspnea and spirometry in monitoring benign tracheal stenosis, with spirometry predicting relapse even in clinically stable patients. PEF being a very sensitive index has the additional advantage of being assessed by peak flow meter and could potentially be used for remote monitoring.

Citation: Kossyvaki V, et al. The Value of Dyspnea and Spirometry in Detecting Relapse of Benign Tracheal Stenosis. The Value of Dyspnea and Spirometry in Detecting Relapse of Benign Tracheal Stenosis. 2022; 101:174-183. doi: 10.1159/000519216

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34614495/
