PMID: 34627675
Title: Overview and Diagnostic Accuracy of Near Infrared Spectroscopy in Carotid Endarterectomy: A Systematic Review and Meta-analysis.

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: Carotid endarterectomy is recommended for the prevention of ischaemic stroke due to carotid stenosis. However, the risk of stroke after carotid endarterectomy has been estimated at 2% - 5%. Monitoring intra-operative cerebral oxygenation with near infrared spectroscopy (NIRS) has been assessed as a strategy to reduce intra- and post-operative complications. The aim was to summarise the diagnostic accuracy of NIRS to detect intra-operative ischaemic events, the values associated with ischaemic events, and the relative contribution of external carotid contamination to the NIRS signal in adults undergoing carotid endarterectomy.
DATA SOURCES: EMBASE, MEDLINE, Cochrane Centre Register of Controlled Trials, and reference lists through May 2019 were searched.
REVIEW METHODS: Non-randomised and randomised studies assessing NIRS as an intra-operative monitoring tool in carotid endarterectomy were included. Studies using NIRS as the reference were excluded. Risk of bias was assessed using the Newcastle Ottawa Scale, RoB-2, and QUADAS-2.
RESULTS: Seventy-six studies were included (n = 8 480), under local (n = 1 864) or general (n = 6 582) anaesthesia. Seven studies were eligible for meta-analysis (n = 524). As a tool for identifying intra-operative ischaemia, specificity increased with more stringent NIRS thresholds, while there was unpredictable variation in sensitivity across studies. A Δ20% threshold under local anaesthesia resulted in pooled estimates for sensitivity and specificity of 70.5% (95% confidence interval, CI, 54.1 - 82.9) and 92.4% (95% CI 85.5 - 96.1) compared with awake neurological monitoring. These studies had low or unclear risk of bias. NIRS signal consistently dropped across clamping and recovered to pre-clamp values upon de-clamp in most studies, and larger decreases were observed in patients with ischaemic events. The contribution of extracranial signal to change in signal across clamp varied from 3% to 50%.
CONCLUSION: NIRS has low sensitivity and high specificity to identify intra-operative ischaemia compared with awake monitoring. Extracranial signal contribution was highly variable. Ultimately, data from high quality studies are desperately needed to determine the utility of NIRS.

Citation: Khan JM, et al. Overview and Diagnostic Accuracy of Near Infrared Spectroscopy in Carotid Endarterectomy: A Systematic Review and Meta-analysis. Overview and Diagnostic Accuracy of Near Infrared Spectroscopy in Carotid Endarterectomy: A Systematic Review and Meta-analysis. 2021; 62:695-704. doi: 10.1016/j.ejvs.2021.08.022

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34627675/
