PMID: 34624265
Title: Nonsupercharged Retrosternal Roux-en-Y Esophagojejunostomy for Distal Esophageal Reconstruction.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Delayed distal esophageal reconstruction with nonsupercharged jejunum is an option when gastric conduit is not available. This study aimed to describe a single-center experience with distal esophageal reconstruction with retrosternal Roux-en-Y esophagojejunostomy (RYEJ) and compare perioperative outcomes with retrosternal gastric pull-up (GP).
METHODS: An Institutional Review Board-exempt retrospective chart review was conducted of patients who underwent esophagostomy closure by the retrosternal route at the University of Minnesota Medical Center (Minneapolis, MN) from January 2009 to July 2019. Patients with colonic conduits were excluded. The study compared patients with RYEJ with a contemporary cohort of patients who underwent GP. The anatomic criteria for RYEJ were the absence of a gastric conduit and an esophageal remnant that reached the sternomanubrial joint. Patient characteristics, anastomotic leak and stricture rate, postoperative complications, hospital length of stay, 30-day readmission, and 90-day mortality were recorded. Statistical analysis was performed using the Fisher exact test and the Wilcoxon rank-sum test with a significance level at P ≤.05.
RESULTS: A total of 9 patients underwent RYEJ, and 10 patients had GP. Previous esophageal adenocarcinoma was more common in the RYEJ group (n = 5) compared with the GP group (n = 0) (P = .01). Patient demographics and comorbidities were comparable between the groups. No differences were found in all end points, including operating time, estimated blood loss, anastomotic leak or stricture rate, Clavien-Dindo class III to IV complications, hospital length of stay, or mortality.
CONCLUSIONS: Retrosternal RYEJ without microvascular augmentation is a safe alternative for esophagostomy closure in patients with adequate esophageal length when the stomach is not available. The nonsupercharged jejunum can safely reach the level of the sternomanubrial joint.

Citation: Diaz-Gutierrez I, et al. Nonsupercharged Retrosternal Roux-en-Y Esophagojejunostomy for Distal Esophageal Reconstruction. Nonsupercharged Retrosternal Roux-en-Y Esophagojejunostomy for Distal Esophageal Reconstruction. 2022; 114:1152-1158. doi: 10.1016/j.athoracsur.2021.08.069

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34624265/
