PMID: 34620544
Title: [Which management for anterior urethral stricture in male? 2021 guidelines from the uro-genital reconstruction urologist group (GURU) under the aegis of CAMS-AFU (Committee of Andrology and Sexual Medicine of the French Association of Urology)].

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: The purpose of this first french guideline is to provide a clinical framework for the diagnosis, treatment and follow-up of anterior urethral strictures. The statements are established by the subgroup working on uro-genital reconstruction surgery (GURU) from the CAMS-AFU (Andrology and Sexual Medicine Committee from the French Association of Urology).
MATERIAL AND METHODS: These guidelines are adapted from the Male Urethral Stricture : American Urological Association Guideline 2016, updated by an additional bibliography from January 2016 to December 2019. Twenty-seven main scenarios seen in clinical practice are identified: from diagnosis, to treatment and follow-up. In addition, this guidelines are powered by anatomical diagrams, treatment algorithms, summaries and follow-up tables.
RESULTS: Anterior urethral strictures are a common condition (0,1 à 1,4 %) in men. The diagnosis is based on a trifecta including an examination with patient reported questionnaires, urethroscopy and retrograde urethrography with voiding cystourethrography. Short meatal stenosis can be treated by dilation or meatotomy, otherwise a urethroplasty can be performed. First line treatment of penile strictures is urethroplasty. Short bulbar strictures (<2cm) may benefit from endourethral treatment (direct visual internal urethrotomy or dilation). In case of recurrence or when the stenosis measures more than 2 cm, a urethroplasty will be proposed. Repeated endourethral treatment management are no longer recommended except in case of palliative option. Urethroplasty is usually done with oral mucosa graft as the primary option, in one or two stages approach depending on the extent of the stenosis and the quality of the tissues. Excision and primary anastomosis or non-transecting techniques are discussed for bulbar urethra strictures. Follow-up by clinical monitoring with urethroscopy, or retrograde urethrography with voiding cystourethrography, is performed at least the first year and then on demand according to symptoms.
CONCLUSION: Anterior urethral strictures need an open surgical approach and should be treated by urethroplasty in most cases. This statement requires a major paradigm shift in practices. Training urologist through reconstructive surgery is the next challenge in order to meet the demand.

Citation: Madec FX, et al. [Which management for anterior urethral stricture in male? 2021 guidelines from the uro-genital reconstruction urologist group (GURU) under the aegis of CAMS-AFU (Committee of Andrology and Sexual Medicine of the French Association of Urology)]. [Which management for anterior urethral stricture in male? 2021 guidelines from the uro-genital reconstruction urologist group (GURU) under the aegis of CAMS-AFU (Committee of Andrology and Sexual Medicine of the French Association of Urology)]. 2021; 31:1055-1071. doi: 10.1016/j.purol.2021.07.012

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34620544/
