PMID: 34633121
Title: Novel technique for recanalization of severe hepaticojejunal obstruction using a transseptal needle in a pediatric liver transplant recipient.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Endoscopic and PTB interventions are common nonsurgical interventions for biliary anastomotic strictures that occur after liver transplantation. When these nonsurgical interventions fail, surgical re-anastomosis is considered; however, this is quite invasive and can cause additional injury that may lead to graft loss. We report a case in which conventional nonsurgical interventions failed, but a new method that involve the use of a transseptal needle-a device to create a transseptal left-heart access during cardiac catheter interventions-was successfully used in recanalization of the hepaticojejunal anastomotic obstruction.
CASE: A 21-year-old man, who had received living-donor liver transplantation for biliary atresia at the age of 23 months presented with recurrent cholangitis and liver dysfunction due to a biliary anastomotic stricture of the hepaticojejunostomy. Therapeutic interventions for biliary stricture, including the PTB approach, double-balloon enteroscopic approach, and rendezvous approach failed. We then performed needle puncture of the anastomotic obstruction using a transseptal needle and succeeded in recanalizing the complete anastomotic obstruction. To perform the procedures safely, we evaluated the organ and needle positions using biplane fluoroscopy and placed a balloon in the afferent jejunal limb as a target for puncture. The 12 Fr catheter via the biliary route was removed 7 months after the procedure, without using a catheter, there was no recurrent stricture or cholangitis for 26 months.
CONCLUSION: Using a transseptal needle to manage hepaticojejunal anastomotic obstruction can reduce the number of patients who need surgical re-anastomosis.

Citation: Sasaki K, et al. Novel technique for recanalization of severe hepaticojejunal obstruction using a transseptal needle in a pediatric liver transplant recipient. Novel technique for recanalization of severe hepaticojejunal obstruction using a transseptal needle in a pediatric liver transplant recipient. 2022; 26:e14160. doi: 10.1111/petr.14160

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34633121/
