PMID: 34637940
Title: Pregnancy as a Subgroup in the Pathophysiologic Classification of Spinal Aneurysms.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Aneurysms of spinal arteries not associated with any known predisposing condition are referred to as isolated spinal aneurysms (SAs). In our series, an SA was found in 2 patients during the postpartum period. The goal of this study is to determine whether an occurrence of an SA may be related to puerperium.
METHODS: In a retrospective analysis of our consecutive series of 10 cases of SAs from 2008 to 2020, we identified 2 cases of SAs during puerperium. Patients' charts and imaging were reviewed, for potential predisposing factors.
RESULTS: In both cases, angiography showed fusiform aneurysms of the anterior SA with concomitant bilateral vertebral artery (VA) dissections. Serum vasculitis and inflammatory panel and genetic testing for collagen disorders were negative in both cases. Review of the literature showed that pregnancy is associated with an increased risk of arterial dissections in various locations and supports the hypothesis that hemodynamic and hormonal changes may play a role in the formation of SAs.
CONCLUSIONS: Pregnancy and peripartum state may be a distinct cause of the formation of SAs, possibly as a result of increased hemodynamic stress and hormonal changes that may alter the arterial wall. It would be appropriate to add pregnancy as a subgroup in the classification of SAs. In our series, both cases were associated with bilateral VA dissections; it is possible that the bilateral VA stenosis may have contributed to the formation of the SAs. It is important to recognize this possibility when considering the occlusion of a dissected VA.

Citation: Bojanowski MW, et al. Pregnancy as a Subgroup in the Pathophysiologic Classification of Spinal Aneurysms. Pregnancy as a Subgroup in the Pathophysiologic Classification of Spinal Aneurysms. 2022; 157:e264-e270. doi: 10.1016/j.wneu.2021.10.067

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34637940/
