PMID: 34634518
Title: Preliminary study of hemodynamics of iliac venous compression syndrome using magnetic resonance imaging.

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: In clinical practice, the degree of iliac vein stenosis has often been inconsistent with the symptoms of chronic venous disease (CVD). To the best of our knowledge, no clinical studies have evaluated the hemodynamic changes associated with iliac vein stenosis. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) can noninvasively provide hemodynamic information. In the present study, we assessed the degree of stenosis associated with iliac venous compression syndrome and the relationships between iliac venous compression syndrome-induced, MRI-determined hemodynamic changes and lower limb symptoms.
METHODS: Stenosis severity, the presence of collateral vessels, and flow rate (FR) differences between the common and external iliac veins secondary to iliac vein stenosis were measured using MRI in 69 patients with CVD. Villalta scores were used as a measure of symptom severity for all patients, and the percentage of change in the Villalta score was used as a measure of symptom improvement for the patients who had received iliac vein stents. Symptom severity for all patients, a subgroup of patients with iliac vein compression (affected limbs), and a group of patients with unilateral iliac vein compression treated with stents was correlated with stenosis, differences in the external and common iliac vein FRs (<0-mL/s group, indicating stenosis-induced decreased common iliac vein flow, and ≥0-mL/s group), and stenosis-induced collateral vessel formation.
RESULTS: Iliac vein stenosis severity and FR differences in all affected limbs were correlated with the Villalta scores of the affected limbs (stenosis: r = 0.38, P < .001, n = 95; FR difference: r = -0.44, P < .001). In the unilateral compression subgroup, stenosis severity, FR differences, and the presence of collateral vessels were not associated with significant changes in contralateral symptoms. In the endovascular treatment subgroup, both lower limbs exhibited significant improvement after stent implantation (affected limb symptom remission, 64.6% ± 18.2%, n = 15; contralateral limb symptom remission, 49.1% ± 29.1%, n = 11). The rate of symptom remission was greater for patients with decreased iliac vein flow in the affected limbs (<0-mL/s group: 74.6% ± 16.4%, n = 7; ≥0-mL/s group: 52.2% ± 16.6%, n = 6; P = .032).
CONCLUSIONS: Iliac vein stenosis, the presence of collateral vessels, and decreased FRs due to stenosis correlated significantly with lower limb symptom severity. Endovascular treatment yielded good outcomes in patients with stenosis >50%. A decreased iliac venous FR could indicate a better response to stent implantation and could be used in the diagnosis and guiding decisions to treat iliac venous compression.

Citation: Chen ZH, et al. Preliminary study of hemodynamics of iliac venous compression syndrome using magnetic resonance imaging. Preliminary study of hemodynamics of iliac venous compression syndrome using magnetic resonance imaging. 2022; 10:131-138.e3. doi: 10.1016/j.jvsv.2021.09.011

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34634518/
