PMID: 34643321
Title: Genotype-cardiac phenotype correlations in a large single-center cohort of patients affected by RASopathies: Clinical implications and literature review.

Abstract: Congenital heart disease (CHD) and hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (HCM) are common features in patients affected by RASopathies. The aim of this study was to assess genotype- phenotype correlations, focusing on the cardiac features and outcomes of interventions for cardiac conditions, in a single-center cohort of 116 patients with molecularly confirmed diagnosis of RASopathy, and compare these findings with previously published data. All enrolled patients underwent a comprehensive echocardiographic examination. Relevant information was also retrospectively collected through the analysis of clinical records. As expected, significant associations were found between PTPN11 mutations and pulmonary stenosis (both valvular and supravalvular) and pulmonary valve dysplasia, and between SOS1 mutations and valvular defects. Similarly, HRAS mutations were significantly associated with HCM. Potential associations between less prevalent mutations and cardiac defects were also observed, including RIT1 mutations and HCM, SOS2 mutations and septal defects, and SHOC2 mutations and septal and valve abnormalities. Patients with PTPN11 mutations were the most likely to require both a primary treatment (transcatheter or surgical) and surgical reintervention. Other cardiac anomalies less reported until recently in this population, such as isolated functional and structural mitral valve diseases, as well as a sigmoid-shaped interventricular septum in the absence of HCM, were also reported. In conclusion, our study confirms previous data but also provides new insights on cardiac involvement in RASopathies. Further research concerning genotype/phenotype associations in RASopathies could lead to a more rational approach to surgery and the consideration of drug therapy in patients at higher risk due to age, severity, anatomy, and comorbidities.

Citation: Leoni C, et al. Genotype-cardiac phenotype correlations in a large single-center cohort of patients affected by RASopathies: Clinical implications and literature review. Genotype-cardiac phenotype correlations in a large single-center cohort of patients affected by RASopathies: Clinical implications and literature review. 2022; 188:431-445. doi: 10.1002/ajmg.a.62529

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34643321/
