PMID: 34647059
Title: Early outcomes of transatrial mitral valve replacement in severe mitral annular calcification.

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: Mitral valve replacement (MVR) in the setting of severe mitral annular calcification is a technically challenging operation with increased morbidity and mortality. Transseptal/apical transcatheter MVR (TMVR) in mitral annular calcification has emerged as an option for these cases, although may not be feasible due to anatomical reasons. Transatrial TMVR is a potential treatment option for this subgroup of patients.
METHODS: Patients who underwent transatrial TMVR between June 2018 and November 2020 at a single institution were included. Patients were selected by a structural heart team based on their surgical risk, pattern of mitral annular calcification, risk of valve migration, left ventricular outflow obstruction, and paravalvular leak.
RESULTS: A total of 11 patients underwent transatrial TMVR. Mean patient age was 74.2 years and mean Society of Thoracic Surgeons predicted risk of mortality score was 9.1%. All patients had the presence of both mitral stenosis and regurgitation-dominant etiology-was mitral stenosis in 81.2%, and mitral regurgitation in 18.8%. Among patients, 54.5% had a concomitant cardiac procedure. There was no in-hospital or 30-day mortality. Technical success defined by the Mitral Valve Academic Research Consortium was achieved in 90.9% of patients. Postoperative paravalvular leak was mild or less in all patients.
CONCLUSIONS: In this series, transatrial TMVR was shown to be a safe and effective treatment option for patients who are high risk for surgical MVR and should be in surgeons' armamentarium in the treatment of this high-risk patient population. Dissemination of safe technique will be critical in the successful conduct of this surgery.

Citation: Kawano Y, et al. Early outcomes of transatrial mitral valve replacement in severe mitral annular calcification. Early outcomes of transatrial mitral valve replacement in severe mitral annular calcification. 2021; 9:49-56. doi: 10.1016/j.xjtc.2021.06.015

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34647059/
