PMID: 34642810
Title: Reduced magnetic resonance angiography signal intensity in the middle cerebral artery ipsilateral to severe carotid stenosis may be a practical index of high oxygen extraction fraction.

Abstract: OBJECTIVES: Angiographic "slow flow" in the middle cerebral artery (MCA), caused by carotid stenosis, may be associated with high oxygen extraction fraction (OEF). If the MCA slow flow is associated with a reduced relative signal intensity (rSI) of the MCA on MR angiography, the reduced rSI may be associated with a high OEF. We investigated whether the MCA slow flow ipsilateral to carotid stenosis was associated with a high OEF and aimed to create a practical index to estimate the high OEF.
METHODS: We included patients who underwent digital subtraction angiography (DSA) and MRA between 2015 and 2019 to evaluate carotid stenosis. MCA slow flow by image count using DSA, MCA rSI, minimal luminal diameter (MLD) of the carotid artery, carotid artery stenosis rate (CASr), and whole-brain OEF (wb-OEF) was evaluated. When MCA slow flow was associated with a high wb-OEF, the determinants of MCA slow flow were identified, and their association with high wb-OEF was evaluated.
RESULTS: One hundred and twenty-seven patients met our inclusion criteria. Angiographic MCA slow flow was associated with high wb-OEF. We identified MCA rSI and MLD as determinants of angiographic MCA slow flow. The upper limits of MCA rSI and MLD for angiographic MCA slow flow were 0.89 and 1.06 mm, respectively. The wb-OEF was higher in patients with an MCA rSI ≤ 0.89 and ipsilateral MLD ≤ 1.06 mm than patients without this combination.
CONCLUSIONS: The combination of reduced MCA rSI and ipsilateral narrow MLD is a straightforward index of high wb-OEF.
KEY POINTS: • The whole-brain OEF in patients with angiographic slow flow in the MCA ipsilateral to high-grade carotid stenosis was higher than in patients without it. • Independent determinants of MCA slow flow were MCA relative signal intensity (rSI) on MRA or minimal luminal diameter (MLD) of the carotid stenosis. • The wb-OEF was higher in patients with an MCA rSI ≤ 0.89 and ipsilateral MLD ≤ 1.06 mm than patients without this combination.

Citation: Mori T, et al. Reduced magnetic resonance angiography signal intensity in the middle cerebral artery ipsilateral to severe carotid stenosis may be a practical index of high oxygen extraction fraction. Reduced magnetic resonance angiography signal intensity in the middle cerebral artery ipsilateral to severe carotid stenosis may be a practical index of high oxygen extraction fraction. 2022; 32:2023-2029. doi: 10.1007/s00330-021-08272-3

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34642810/
