PMID: 34648852
Title: Degeneration and Regeneration of Smooth Muscle Cells in Two Different Abdominal Aortic Aneurysm Models in Rabbits.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: We aimed to investigate the formation and self-healing process of rabbit abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA) by focus on the degeneration and regeneration of smooth muscle cells (SMCs) in elastase-induced AAA model and enlarging AAA model in rabbits.
METHODS: Sixty rabbits were equally divided into 2 aneurysm groups (Group A and Group B). Rabbits received a 10-min incubation of elastase in Group A (10 units/µL) and Group B (1 unit/µL). Rabbits underwent aortic stenosis above the incubated segment in Group B. Aortic diameter was measured and rabbits were sacrificed for histopathological and immunohistochemical studies.
RESULTS: The incubated aorta dilated immediately and ran up to maxima by day 21 in Group A. All aneurysms formed by day 21 and enlarged progressively in Group B. SMCs content, elastin content and intima-media thickness decreased significantly by day 0 in Group A. SMCs and elastic fibers were destroyed gradually in Group B, however, SMCs content was significantly lower than Group A by day 70. Intimal thickness increased significantly by day 70 in the Aneurysm groups. MMP2 maintained moderate expression in Group A, which decreased significantly by day 3 in Group B. MMP9 and RAM11 expressions were higher by day 1, but decreased significantly by day 3 in Group B.
CONCLUSIONS: Irreversible degeneration of SMCs is critical to a rapid formation of elastase-induced rabbit AAA model, and SMCs excessive regeneration accounts for the selfhealing process. SMCs degradation and regeneration remain relatively stable in an enlarging AAA model. SMCs should be the key target for studying the mechanism of AAA and intervention therapy.

Citation: Bi Y, et al. Degeneration and Regeneration of Smooth Muscle Cells in Two Different Abdominal Aortic Aneurysm Models in Rabbits. Degeneration and Regeneration of Smooth Muscle Cells in Two Different Abdominal Aortic Aneurysm Models in Rabbits. 2022; 79:290-297. doi: 10.1016/j.avsg.2021.09.019

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34648852/
