PMID: 34653638
Title: Viabahn-Assisted Extra-Arterial Bypass Combined With Surgical Arterial Endarterectomy as a Salvage Technique to Treat Critical Limb Ischemia.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Revascularization of patients with critical limb ischemia (CLI) is always challenging because of long occlusive arterial lesions with severe calcification and poor general condition. Here we describe a novel hybrid technique to treat a CLI patient.
METHODS: The patient was a 60-year-old male with left foot ulcer. Preoperative scan showed long calcific and occlusive lesions running from the left proximal common femoral artery to P1 of the popliteal artery (PA). Surgical endarterectomy was performed on the proximal femoral artery. Then, retrograde PA access was achieved to protect the vital collateral artery at the proximal PA. When the retrograde V18 guidewire failed to advance because of severe occlusion in the middle one-third of the SFA, we punctured the artery with the V18 guidewire, and manually introduced it into the lumen of the proximal SFA. Three Viabahn stent grafts were successively implanted, parts of which were situated outside the SFA.
RESULTS: Computed tomography 1 week after surgery showed patent blood flow to the left toes. Good recovery was observed during a 1-year follow up, the toe wound healed after amputation, and no rest pain recurred. Ultrasound showed 60% stenosis in the PA stent, while the other stents were patent. The anklebrachial index of the left limb was 0.48.
CONCLUSIONS: This case illustrates successful use of Viabahn-assisted extra-arterial bypass combined with surgical arterial endarterectomy to salvage the limb after CLI. This novel technique might be an alternative in carefully selected patients.

Citation: Wei R, et al. Viabahn-Assisted Extra-Arterial Bypass Combined With Surgical Arterial Endarterectomy as a Salvage Technique to Treat Critical Limb Ischemia. Viabahn-Assisted Extra-Arterial Bypass Combined With Surgical Arterial Endarterectomy as a Salvage Technique to Treat Critical Limb Ischemia. 2022; 79:440.e1-440.e7. doi: 10.1016/j.avsg.2021.07.042

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34653638/
