PMID: 34659973
Title: Surgical Treatment for Radiculopathy Due to Spinal Metastasis: A Report of Three Cases.

Abstract: Nonsurgical treatment is the first option in patients with radiculopathy due to spinal metastasis. However, we have to consider surgical management for patients who are resistant to conservative treatment. There are few reports of surgical treatment for radiculopathy due to metastatic spine tumors. We present cases in three patients who underwent surgery for radiculopathy due to spinal metastasis. Case 1 was in an 82-year-old woman with lumbar foraminal stenosis at L5-S1 due to breast cancer metastasis to the right L5-S1 intervertebral foramen. She underwent subtotal tumor resection and posterior lumbosacral decompression and fusion. After the surgery, she was able to walk without pain. Case 2 was in a 70-year-old woman with C8 radiculopathy and amyotrophy due to breast cancer metastasis to the right C7-T1 intervertebral foramen. She underwent anterior cervical decompression and fixation from C6 to T1. After the surgery, the pain in her left upper limb was relieved, but the muscle weakness of her left finger extension remained. Case 3 was in a 72-year-old woman with C8 radiculopathy and amyotrophy due to rectal cancer metastasis to the right side of the C7 vertebral body and pedicle. She underwent tumor resection and left C7-T1 facetectomy. Muscle weakness of her right finger extension and pain improved postoperatively. Surgery for radiculopathy due to spinal metastasis can improve pain in afflicted patients. Postoperative improvement of motor weakness due to spinal metastasis varies depending on the case. Surgery for radiculopathy due to spinal metastasis is indicated when patients have conservative treatment-resistant radiculopathy or amyotrophy that affects their activities of daily living.

Citation: Kitamura T, et al. Surgical Treatment for Radiculopathy Due to Spinal Metastasis: A Report of Three Cases. Surgical Treatment for Radiculopathy Due to Spinal Metastasis: A Report of Three Cases. 2021; 13:e17762. doi: 10.7759/cureus.17762

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34659973/
