PMID: 34659512
Title: Expression and role of interleukin-1β and associated biomarkers in deep vein thrombosis.

Abstract: Lower extremity deep vein thrombosis (DVT) is a common peripheral vascular disease, in which inflammation plays an important role. The aim of the present study was to investigate the expression and role of inflammatory factors in DVT. A rat model of venous thrombosis of the lower extremities was established through venous ligation surgery. The rats were examined at 2, 8, 24, 48 and 72 h after the induction of inferior venous stenosis and compared with control and sham surgery groups. The serum levels of interleukin-1β (IL-1β), tissue factor (TF) and xanthine oxidase (XOD) were measured using ELISAs. The morphology of the DVT tissue was observed by hematoxylin and eosin staining. Circulating endothelial cells (CECs) in peripheral blood were counted by flow cytometry. Reverse transcription-quantitative PCR and western blotting were used to detect mRNA and protein expression, respectively. The serum levels of IL-1β, TF and XOD exhibited no significant differences between the control and sham surgery groups. However, those in the rat model of DVT presented an upward trend from 2 to 24 h and peaked at 24 h, with a significant difference from the respective levels in the control and sham surgery groups. The histopathological analysis revealed the presence of red and mixed thrombi in the rats 2-48 h following the induction of inferior venous stenosis group with inflammatory cell infiltration in the vascular wall. Thrombus formation was evident after 72 h. While significant difference was observed in the number of CECs in the peripheral blood between the control and sham surgery groups, the number of peripheral blood CECs in the rats with inferior venous stenosis group increased from 8 to 72 h, with significant differences among these groups. The mRNA levels of IL-1β, TF, XOD and NF-κB in the tissues peaked at 24 h, with significant differences compared with those in the control and sham surgery groups. In addition, the protein expression level of NF-κB increased from 2 to 72 h. In conclusion, these results suggest that the high expression of IL-1β, TF, XOD and NF-κB may promote thrombus formation.

Citation: Pai RZ, et al. Expression and role of interleukin-1β and associated biomarkers in deep vein thrombosis. Expression and role of interleukin-1β and associated biomarkers in deep vein thrombosis. 2021; 22:1366. doi: 10.3892/etm.2021.10800

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34659512/
