PMID: 34658830
Title: Magnetic Resonance Imaging Image Segmentation Under Artificial Intelligence Neural Network for Evaluation of the Effect of Butyphthalide Combined With Edaravone on Neurological Function in Patients With Acute Cerebral Infarction.

Abstract: This research was developed to investigate the effect of artificial intelligence neural network-based magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) image segmentation on the neurological function of patients with acute cerebral infarction treated with butylphthalide combined with edaravone. Eighty patients with acute cerebral infarction were selected as the research subjects, and the MRI images of patients with acute cerebral infarction were segmented by convolutional neural networks (CNN) upgraded algorithm model. MRI images of patients before and after treatment of butylphthalide combined with edaravone were compared to comprehensively evaluate the efficacy of this treatment. The results showed that compared with the traditional CNN algorithm, the running time of the CNN upgraded algorithm adopted in this study was significantly shorter, and the Loss value was lower than that of the traditional CNN model. Upgraded CNN model can realize accurate segmentation of cerebral infarction lesions in MRI images of patients. In addition, the degree of cerebral infarction and the degree of arterial stenosis were significantly improved after treatment with butylphthalide and edaravone. Compared with that before treatment, the number of patients with severe cerebral infarction or even vascular stenosis decreased significantly (P &lt; 0.05), and gradually changed to mild vascular stenosis, and the neurological dysfunction of patients was also significantly improved. In short, MRI image segmentation based on artificial intelligence neural network can well-evaluate the efficacy and neurological impairment of butylphthalide combined with edaravone in the treatment of acute cerebral infarction, and it was worthy of promotion in clinical evaluation of the treatment effect of acute cerebral infarction.

Citation: Li B and Liu G. Magnetic Resonance Imaging Image Segmentation Under Artificial Intelligence Neural Network for Evaluation of the Effect of Butyphthalide Combined With Edaravone on Neurological Function in Patients With Acute Cerebral Infarction. Magnetic Resonance Imaging Image Segmentation Under Artificial Intelligence Neural Network for Evaluation of the Effect of Butyphthalide Combined With Edaravone on Neurological Function in Patients With Acute Cerebral Infarction. 2021; 15:719145. doi: 10.3389/fnbot.2021.719145

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34658830/
