PMID: 34664822
Title: Meatal Stenosis and Atopic Condition: A Pilot Study Demonstrating a Possible Unidentified Etiology.

Abstract: Meatal stenosis (MS) is known as one of the most frequent complications of circumcision. In the present study, we aimed to find any possible relationship between MS and allergic disorders. A total of 36 children with a mean±SD age of 5.84±2.03 years were referred with MS and an atopic background even in themselves or in one of their family members (Group A). There were also age-matched controls with a mean±SD age of 5.70±2.17 years who were referred to our center with allergic symptoms and no urinary complaints (Group B, n=17). The RIDA qLine allergy and allergy explorer (ALEX) tests were performed for all patients to find possible allergen sensitization. Laboratory findings revealed that IgE-sensitization to the main food and aeroallergens in Group A (with the chief complaint of MS in whom a mild atopic condition was found during concise medical history taking) were very similar to the control group with no significant difference (except for ryegrass which was higher in the control group). Although total IgE level was considerably higher in group B compared to group A, food sensitization to cow's milk and ß-lactoglobulin was higher in asthmatic patients of group A compared to the controls. It seems that not all patients with MS should be considered as a complication of circumcision and undergo a surgical procedure for correction of the stenosis. Further investigations are required to determine the role of concise medical history taking and proper treatment of the allergic disorder to reduce failed surgical attempts in atopic boys with MS.

Citation: Sabetkish N, et al. Meatal Stenosis and Atopic Condition: A Pilot Study Demonstrating a Possible Unidentified Etiology. Meatal Stenosis and Atopic Condition: A Pilot Study Demonstrating a Possible Unidentified Etiology. 2021; 20:635-640. doi: 10.18502/ijaai.v20i5.7413

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34664822/
