PMID: 34666918
Title: CurveletTransform-Based Texture Analysis of Carotid B-mode Ultrasound Images in Asymptomatic Men With Moderate and Severe Stenoses: A Preliminary Clinical Study.

Abstract: The curvelet transform, which represents images in terms of their geometric and textural characteristics, was investigated toward revealing differences between moderate (50%-69%, n = 11) and severe (70%-100%, n = 14) stenosis asymptomatic plaque from B-mode ultrasound. Texture features were estimated in original and curvelet transformed images of atheromatous plaque (PL), the adjacent arterial wall (intima-media [IM]) and the plaque shoulder (SH) (i.e., the boundary between plaque and wall), separately at end systole and end diastole. Seventeen features derived from the original images were significantly different between the two groups (4 for IM, 3 for PL and 10 for SH; 9 for end diastole and 8 for end systole); 19 of 234 features (2 for IM and 17 for SH; 8 for end systole and 11 for end diastole) derived from curvelet transformed images were significantly higher in the patients with severe stenosis, indicating higher magnitude, variation and randomness of image gray levels. In these patients, lower body height and higher serum creatinine concentration were observed. Our findings suggest that (a) moderate and severe plaque have similar curvelet-based texture properties, and (b) IM and SH provide useful information about arterial wall pathophysiology, complementary to PL itself. The curvelet transform is promising for identifying novel indices of cardiovascular risk and warrants further investigation in larger cohorts.

Citation: Golemati S, et al. CurveletTransform-Based Texture Analysis of Carotid B-mode Ultrasound Images in Asymptomatic Men With Moderate and Severe Stenoses: A Preliminary Clinical Study. CurveletTransform-Based Texture Analysis of Carotid B-mode Ultrasound Images in Asymptomatic Men With Moderate and Severe Stenoses: A Preliminary Clinical Study. 2022; 48:78-90. doi: 10.1016/j.ultrasmedbio.2021.09.005

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34666918/
