PMID: 34663325
Title: The role of left atrial strain in patients with functional tricuspid regurgitation before and after annuloplasty: a long-term follow-up study.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Functional tricuspid regurgitation (TR) is common among patients with left heart disease and may recur during the follow-up period after selective tricuspid valve annuloplasty (TVA). This study aims to analyse the relationship between left atrial (LA) strain and the degree of preoperative functional TR and to explore the role of LA strain in predicting TR recurrence.
METHODS: This study included 63 patients with rheumatic mitral stenosis who underwent mitral valve replacement and concomitant TVA. Additionally, 20 healthy controls were enrolled. Preoperative conventional LA echocardiographic parameters and LA strain were measured. The association between LA strain and preoperative functional TR severity was analysed by Pearson correlation. Predictors of recurrent TR were determined by multivariate logistic regression analyses.
RESULTS: Compared with the control group, the mitral stenosis group developed a significant impairment in terms of LA strain. The degree of preoperative functional TR exhibited moderate correlations with LA reservoir strain (r = - 0.57) and LA conduit strain (r = 0.48). During a median follow-up period of 66.4 ± 36.4 months, TR recurred in 18 patients. Preoperative LA reservoir strain and the mean transmitral gradient were predictors of postoperative TR recurrence. When the two indexes were combined to establish a prediction, the sensitivity and specificity of prediction increased. The area under the receiver operating characteristic curve of the combined indicator was higher than those of the single indicators (0.90 vs. 0.70 and 0.72).
CONCLUSIONS: LA strain correlates with preoperative functional TR severity in patients with rheumatic mitral stenosis. The LA reservoir strain and preoperative mean transmitral gradient are independent predictive factors for recurrent TR after TVA.

Citation: Meng QL, et al. The role of left atrial strain in patients with functional tricuspid regurgitation before and after annuloplasty: a long-term follow-up study. The role of left atrial strain in patients with functional tricuspid regurgitation before and after annuloplasty: a long-term follow-up study. 2021; 19:33. doi: 10.1186/s12947-021-00264-z

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34663325/
