PMID: 34679055
Title: Ischiocavernosus Muscle Release for Urethral Obstruction Treatment after Pelvic Symphyseal Distraction Osteotomy in a Cat with Pelvic Stenosis.

Abstract: Symphyseal distraction osteotomy (SDO) with a polymethyl methacrylate (PMMA) spacer is an effective surgical treatment for cats with pelvic stenosis. This study reports the successful treatment of urethral obstruction due to ischiocavernosus muscle (IM) tension after SDO with a PMMA spacer. A 2-year-old castrated male Korean domestic shorthair feline had megacolon and pelvic canal stenosis. The ratio of the maximal diameter of the colon to the L5 length and the pelvic canal diameter ratio were 1.6 and 0.45, respectively. Pelvic SDO was performed with a PMMA spacer, leading to pelvic canal enlargement (pelvic canal diameter ratio: 0.73). Two days after surgery, dysuria was identified immediately after removing the preoperatively placed urinary catheter. Complete blood counts and serum biochemical profiles were within the reference intervals, and a positive contrast retrograde urethrogram confirmed urethral obstruction at the level of the membranous-pelvic urethra region. Increased tension of the IM leading to a narrowed urethra was suspected as the cause of urethral obstruction. After IM release at the level of origin on the ischium, the patient had an uneventful recovery with spontaneous urination. Muscle release resulted in excellent functional restoration, with no intraoperative or postoperative complications reported during the 12-month long-term follow-up. Therefore, SDO with IM release could be a feasible therapeutic option for severe pelvic stenosis without complications, such as urethral obstruction, in cats.

Citation: Roh YH, et al. Ischiocavernosus Muscle Release for Urethral Obstruction Treatment after Pelvic Symphyseal Distraction Osteotomy in a Cat with Pelvic Stenosis. Ischiocavernosus Muscle Release for Urethral Obstruction Treatment after Pelvic Symphyseal Distraction Osteotomy in a Cat with Pelvic Stenosis. 2021; 8:(unknown pages). doi: 10.3390/vetsci8100225

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34679055/
