PMID: 34678767
Title: Relationship between facet joint opening on CT and facet joint effusion on MRI in patients with lumbar spinal stenosis: analysis of a less invasive decompression procedure.

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: Both facet joint opening (FJO) on CT and facet joint effusion (FJE) on MRI are reportedly indicators of segmental instability in the lumbar facet joints of patients with lumbar spinal stenosis (LSS). However, no study has investigated both parameters simultaneously. Therefore, the association between these findings and which parameter is better for predicting clinical outcomes after surgical treatment remains unclear. The purpose of this study was to investigate the relationship between FJO and FJE in patients who underwent less invasive decompression procedures for LSS and to investigate the impact of these findings on clinical outcomes.
METHODS: This study included 1465 lumbar levels (L1-2 to L5-S1) in 293 patients who underwent less invasive surgery for LSS and had ≥ 5 years of follow-up. FJO was defined as joint space widening ≥ 2 mm on preoperative axial CT images. FJE was defined as fluid effusion in the facet joint on preoperative axial T2-weighted MR images. The characteristics and distributions of FJO and FJE were investigated with other preoperative radiological findings. The association between need for further surgery and FJO/FJE was analyzed according to intervertebral level.
RESULTS: FJO was observed at 402 levels (27%), and FJE was found at 306 levels (21%). The correspondence rate between FJO and FJE was 70% (kappa 0.195, p < 0.01). One hundred thirty-seven levels (9%) had both FJO and FJE. Levels with both FJO and FJE more commonly had lateral olisthesis, lateral wedging, and axial intervertebral rotation than other levels (p < 0.001). Levels with both FJO and FJE were more likely than other levels to need further surgery (OR 2.42, p = 0.027).
CONCLUSIONS: The correspondence rate between FJO and FJE was not high. However, multivariate analysis showed that levels with both FJO and FJE had a higher risk of requiring further surgery than those with other radiological findings, such as lateral olisthesis, lateral wedging, and axial intervertebral rotation. Patients with levels with both FJO and FJE need careful long-term follow-up after undergoing a less invasive decompression procedure.

Citation: Yamada K, et al. Relationship between facet joint opening on CT and facet joint effusion on MRI in patients with lumbar spinal stenosis: analysis of a less invasive decompression procedure. Relationship between facet joint opening on CT and facet joint effusion on MRI in patients with lumbar spinal stenosis: analysis of a less invasive decompression procedure. 2022; 36:376-384. doi: 10.3171/2021.6.SPINE21721

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34678767/
