PMID: 34677363
Title: Plasma Lipidomic Patterns in Patients with Symptomatic Coronary Microvascular Dysfunction.

Abstract: Coronary microvascular dysfunction (MVD) is a syndrome of abnormal regulation of vascular tone, particularly during increased metabolic demand. While there are several risk factors for MVD, some of which are similar to those for coronary artery disease (CAD), the cause of MVD is not understood. We hypothesized that MVD in symptomatic non-elderly subjects would be characterized by specific lipidomic profiles. Subjects (n = 20) aged 35-60 years and referred for computed tomography coronary angiography (CTA) for chest pain but who lacked obstructive CAD (&gt;50% stenosis), underwent quantitative regadenoson stress-rest myocardial contrast echocardiography (MCE) perfusion imaging for MVD assessment. The presence of MVD defined by kinetic analysis of MCE data was correlated with lipidomic profiles in plasma measured by liquid chromatography and high-resolution mass spectrometry. Nine of twenty subjects had evidence of MVD, defined by reduced hyperemic perfusion versus other subjects (beta-value 1.62 ± 0.44 vs. 2.63 ± 0.99 s-1, p = 0.009). Neither the presence of high-risk but non-obstructive CAD on CTA, nor CAD risk factors were different for those with versus without MVD. Lipidomic analysis revealed that patients with MVD had lower concentrations of long-carbon chain triacylglycerols and diacylglycerols, and higher concentrations of short-chain triacylglycerols. The diacylglycerol containing stearic and linoleic acid classified all participants correctly. We conclude that specific lipidomic plasma profiles occur in MVD involving saturated long-chain fatty acid-containing acylglycerols that are distinctly different from those in non-obstructive CAD. These patterns could be used to better characterize the pathobiology and potential treatments for this condition.

Citation: Lindner JR, et al. Plasma Lipidomic Patterns in Patients with Symptomatic Coronary Microvascular Dysfunction. Plasma Lipidomic Patterns in Patients with Symptomatic Coronary Microvascular Dysfunction. 2021; 11:(unknown pages). doi: 10.3390/metabo11100648

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34677363/
