PMID: 34677190
Title: Deficient Myocardial Organization and Pathological Fibrosis in Fetal Aortic Stenosis-Association of Prenatal Ultrasound with Postmortem Histology.

Abstract: In fetal aortic stenosis (AS), it remains challenging to predict left ventricular development over the course of pregnancy. Myocardial organization, differentiation and fibrosis could be potential biomarkers relevant for biventricular outcome. We present four cases of fetal AS with varying degrees of severity and associate myocardial deformation on fetal ultrasound with postmortem histopathological characteristics. During routine fetal echocardiography, speckle tracking recordings of the cardiac four-chamber view were performed to assess myocardial strain as parameter for myocardial deformation. After pregnancy termination, postmortem cardiac specimens were examined using immunohistochemical labeling (IHC) of key markers for myocardial organization, differentiation and fibrosis and compared to normal fetal hearts. Two cases with critical AS presented extremely decreased left ventricular (LV) strain on fetal ultrasound. IHC showed overt endocardial fibro-elastosis, which correlated with pathological fibrosis patterns in the myocardium and extremely disturbed cardiomyocyte organization. The LV in severe AS showed mildly reduced myocardial strain and less severe disorganization of the cardiomyocytes. In conclusion, the degree of reduction in myocardial deformation corresponded with high extent to the amount of pathological fibrosis patterns and cardiomyocyte disorganization. Myocardial deformation on fetal ultrasound seems to hold promise as a potential biomarker for left ventricular structural damage in AS.

Citation: Zwanenburg F, et al. Deficient Myocardial Organization and Pathological Fibrosis in Fetal Aortic Stenosis-Association of Prenatal Ultrasound with Postmortem Histology. Deficient Myocardial Organization and Pathological Fibrosis in Fetal Aortic Stenosis-Association of Prenatal Ultrasound with Postmortem Histology. 2021; 8:(unknown pages). doi: 10.3390/jcdd8100121

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34677190/
