PMID: 34676484
Title: Surgical outcomes of minimally invasive aortic valve replacement via right mini-thoracotomy for hemodialysis patients.

Abstract: OBJECTIVES: Minimally invasive valve surgery has become increasingly accepted as an alternative to conventional median sternotomy in low-risk patients. However, there have been no reports regarding the outcomes of this procedure on high-risk hemodialysis patients. The purpose of this investigation was to assess the surgical outcomes of minimally invasive aortic valve replacement (AVR) via right mini-thoracotomy (MIAVR) in hemodialysis patients compared with those of conventional AVR (CAVR) via full sternotomy.
METHODS: Two hundred and seventy-four patients underwent isolated AVR for severe AS, and 42 hemodialysis patients were included in this study. MIAVR was performed in 17 cases and CAVR in 25 cases. We compared the short-term surgical outcome among the two groups.
RESULTS: There was no difference in the aortic cross-clamp or cardiopulmonary bypass time. However, the procedure time was significantly shorter in the MIAVR group. Patients in the MIAVR group had less bleeding and a smaller amount of transfused red blood cells. There were four hospital deaths (18.2%) in the CAVR group. For postoperative complications, there were 2 (9.1%) cerebrovascular incidents, 2 (9.1%) cases of respiratory failure, 1 (4.5%) re-exploration for bleeding in CAVR group. The postoperative ventilation time was significantly shorter in the MIAVR group. There was no difference in the length of postoperative intensive care unit stay or of postoperative hospital stay.
CONCLUSION: The surgical outcomes of MIAVR in hemodialysis patients were acceptable, with a low incidence of morbidity, reasonable lengths of hospital stay, and no mortality among the patients studied.

Citation: Ito Y, et al. Surgical outcomes of minimally invasive aortic valve replacement via right mini-thoracotomy for hemodialysis patients. Surgical outcomes of minimally invasive aortic valve replacement via right mini-thoracotomy for hemodialysis patients. 2022; 70:439-444. doi: 10.1007/s11748-021-01720-3

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34676484/
