PMID: 34689284
Title: A technique for constructing diverting loop ileostomy to prevent outlet obstruction after rectal resection and total colectomy: a retrospective single-center study.

Abstract: PURPOSE: Preventing outlet obstruction associated with a diverting stoma is important. Previously, we constructed a diverting loop ileostomy with the proximal limb of the small intestine on the caudal side, namely the oral inferior (OI) method. However, to address the issue of twisting and stenosis of the small intestine, we recently constructed a diverting loop ileostomy with the proximal limb on the cranial side, namely the oral superior (OS) method. We compared the incidence of outlet obstruction between the two methods.
METHODS: The subjects of this retrospective study were 133 patients who underwent colorectal resection or total colectomy, with D2 or more lymph node dissection and diverting loop ileostomy construction, between April, 2001 and December, 2018, at our hospital. The OI method was performed in 54 patients and the OS method was performed in 79 patients.
RESULTS: In the OS group, a history of laparotomy, neoadjuvant therapy, clinical stage III, and the use of anti-adhesion materials were more common, whereas blood loss and the incidence of outlet obstruction were significantly lower. Multivariate analysis identified only OS placement as a significant factor for reducing the incidence of outlet obstruction.
CONCLUSION: When constructing a diverting loop ileostomy, placing the proximal limb on the cranial side is important.

Citation: Takehara Y, et al. A technique for constructing diverting loop ileostomy to prevent outlet obstruction after rectal resection and total colectomy: a retrospective single-center study. A technique for constructing diverting loop ileostomy to prevent outlet obstruction after rectal resection and total colectomy: a retrospective single-center study. 2022; 52:587-594. doi: 10.1007/s00595-021-02381-8

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34689284/
