PMID: 34689865
Title: Diagnosis experience and literature review of patients with cervical, thoracic and lumbar multi-segment spinal stenosis: A case report.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: The incidence of cervical, thoracic and lumbar spinal canal stenosis is low. It is difficult to identify the main focus and responsible segment, and it is also difficult to select the sequence of staging surgery. We report a patient with triple stenosis.
CASE PRESENTATION: In this paper, we introduced a 61-year-old female patient with cervical, thoracic and lumbar spinal canal stenosis who had previously undergone "lumbar discectomy" in the outer hospital. The postoperative effect was not good and the symptoms were poor. The diagnosis was "cervical spinal stenosis and lumbar spine surgery." The staged spinal canal decompression operation and Duhuo Jisheng Decoction (DHJSD) treatment were conducted in our hospital. After 3 months of follow-up, the functional and imaging results were satisfactory.
CONCLUSION: We should pay enough attention to the patients with spinal degenerative diseases who need surgery, and must pursue the unity of medical history, signs and images. In case of difficult patients, more comprehensive examination is required, and the main focus and responsible segment are determined through comprehensive analysis. The more important diseases that may exist cannot be covered up by focal lesion manifestations, so as to avoid unnecessary surgical trauma for patients. In addition, surgery combined with Chinese herbal medicine DHJSD therapy may be an effective treatment for this kind of disease.

Citation: He C, et al. Diagnosis experience and literature review of patients with cervical, thoracic and lumbar multi-segment spinal stenosis: A case report. Diagnosis experience and literature review of patients with cervical, thoracic and lumbar multi-segment spinal stenosis: A case report. 2021; 266:377-385. doi: 10.1016/bs.pbr.2021.06.019

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34689865/
