PMID: 34689457
Title: CaRotid Artery Filtering Technique (CRAFT): A Technique for Carotid Artery Stenting with Intrinsic Embolic Protection.

Abstract: PURPOSE: Carotid artery stenting (CAS) is an established treatment for symptomatic carotid artery stenosis as an alternative to carotid endarterectomy. A variety of techniques and devices have been devised to minimise periprocedural stroke risk using either proximal or distal embolic protection. This study presents a method of embolic protection during CAS-the CaRotid Artery Filtering Technique (CRAFT).
MATERIALS AND METHODS: The CRAFT technique employs aspects of both proximal and distal embolic protection. The CASPER RX stent (MicroVention, Tustin, CA, USA), which is a double-layered, closed-cell, micromesh nitinol stent, is deployed across the carotid artery stenosis with the assistance of a FlowGate balloon guide catheter (Stryker Neurovascular, Fremont, CA, USA). The partially deployed stent acts as a distal filter while the balloon guide is deflated midway during stent deployment to prevent distal plaque embolisation, followed by completion of stent deployment and angioplasty.
RESULTS: A total of 94 patients underwent CAS using the CRAFT technique between June 2016 and March 2021. Successful stent deployment was achieved in all patients. Preliminary results demonstrated acute stent occlusion in 6 patients (6.4%) and distal embolic stroke in 5 patients (5.3%). The median procedural fluoroscopy time was 34 minutes with an interquartile range of 22 to 55 minutes.
CONCLUSION: The CRAFT technique of CAS presented by this study can be applied in the treatment of symptomatic carotid artery stenosis in both emergency and elective procedure settings with a high technical success and low distal embolic stroke risk.

Citation: Foo M, et al. CaRotid Artery Filtering Technique (CRAFT): A Technique for Carotid Artery Stenting with Intrinsic Embolic Protection. CaRotid Artery Filtering Technique (CRAFT): A Technique for Carotid Artery Stenting with Intrinsic Embolic Protection. 2021; 16:260-266. doi: 10.5469/neuroint.2021.00353

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34689457/
