PMID: 34699022
Title: Feasibility and safety of a novel indwelling catheter system via the femoral artery for intermittent transarterial therapy for treating malignant liver tumors.

Abstract: PURPOSE: An indwelling arterial access system via the brachial artery, System-i, has been previously reported. We have modified the technique for the femoral artery approach. This study aimed to evaluate the feasibility and safety of the modified System-i for patients with malignant liver tumors.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: The modified System-i is an indwelling catheter that provides vascular access for inserting a microcatheter without repeated punctures to the femoral artery. Between 2018 and 2020, the system was implanted for 50 patients with malignant liver tumors. We used the system for patients with difficulty in inserting the conventional indwelling catheter system. To place the system, a side-holed catheter was implanted in the femoral artery, and the tip of the catheter was placed in the superficial femoral artery through the contralateral iliac artery. Using this system, transcatheter arterial chemoembolization or hepatic arterial infusion chemotherapy was performed. A shaped high-flow microcatheter and a non-tapered microcatheter were used with the system. The technical aspects and outcomes of the system were also assessed.
RESULTS: Implantation of the system was successful in all patients. The median implantation time was 40 min. The main reason for implantation was obstruction or stenosis of the hepatic artery. Among the 50 patients, 11 (22%) showed complications, of which four had major complications/class C based on the SIR criteria.
CONCLUSION: The modified System-i is a safe system that can be a feasible repeated interventional radiological treatment via the femoral approach. We need to evaluate the efficacy of this system in the treatment of advanced cancers in the future. The modified System-i is a novel indwelling catheter system that allows vascular access to perform intermittent transarterial therapy, such as transcatheter arterial chemoembolization and hepatic arterial infusion chemotherapy via the femoral approach. In this study, we report the technical details and safety of the system.

Citation: Iwamoto H, et al. Feasibility and safety of a novel indwelling catheter system via the femoral artery for intermittent transarterial therapy for treating malignant liver tumors. Feasibility and safety of a novel indwelling catheter system via the femoral artery for intermittent transarterial therapy for treating malignant liver tumors. 2022; 40:326-333. doi: 10.1007/s11604-021-01202-9

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34699022/
