PMID: 34691219
Title: Efficacy of Posterior Cervical Laminectomy and Decompression plus Lateral Mass Screw-Rod Internal Fixation in the Treatment of Multisegment Cervical Spinal Canal Stenosis and Effects on Cervical Curvature and Range of Motion Parameters.

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: To investigate the clinical effects of posterior laminectomy and decompression plus lateral mass screw-rod internal fixation for the treatment of multisegment cervical spinal canal stenosis and the improvement of cervical curvature and range of motion in patients.
METHODS: A total of 68 patients with multisegment cervical spinal stenosis who were treated in our hospital from January 2019 to June 2020 were selected and randomly divided into the control group and the observation group according to the random number table, with 34 patients in each group. The patients in the control group were treated with traditional posterior cervical open-door laminoplasty with silk suture fixation, while those in the observation group were treated with posterior cervical laminectomy and decompression plus lateral mass screw-rod internal fixation. The perioperative index of patients in the two groups was recorded, and the clinical efficacy of patients was evaluated. The patient's JOA score, cervical physiological curvature, and cervical range of motion were evaluated. The occurrence of complications was recorded during follow-up.
RESULTS: The amount of intraoperative bleeding and postoperative rehabilitation training time in the observation group was less than that in the control group (P &lt; 0.05). There was no significant difference in operation time between the two groups (P &gt; 0.05). The total effective rate of the observation group was significantly higher than that of the control group (P &lt; 0.05). The JOA scores at 1 week, 6 months, and 12 months after operation in the observation group were higher than those in the control group (P &lt; 0.05). The physiological curvature of cervical spine in the observation group at 1 week, 6 months, and 12 months after operation was higher than that in the control group (P &lt; 0.05). The cervical range of motion at 12 months after operation in the observation group was significantly higher than that in the control group (P &lt; 0.05). The incidence of postoperative complications in patients of the observation group was significantly lower than that of the control group (P &lt; 0.05).
CONCLUSION: Posterior laminectomy and decompression plus lateral mass screw-rod internal fixation can help patients to improve various clinical symptoms caused by nerve compression and obtain better improvement of cervical curvature and range of motion. It is an ideal surgical method for the treatment of multisegment cervical spinal canal stenosis, and it is conducive to improving the clinical efficacy of patients.

Citation: Liu B, et al. Efficacy of Posterior Cervical Laminectomy and Decompression plus Lateral Mass Screw-Rod Internal Fixation in the Treatment of Multisegment Cervical Spinal Canal Stenosis and Effects on Cervical Curvature and Range of Motion Parameters. Efficacy of Posterior Cervical Laminectomy and Decompression plus Lateral Mass Screw-Rod Internal Fixation in the Treatment of Multisegment Cervical Spinal Canal Stenosis and Effects on Cervical Curvature and Range of Motion Parameters. 2021; 2021:6001877. doi: 10.1155/2021/6001877

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34691219/
