PMID: 34704502
Title: Percutaneous transluminal angioplasty and stenting in acute stroke caused by basilar artery steno-occlusive disease: The experience of a single stroke centre.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Percutaneous transluminal angioplasty and stenting in acute stroke due to severe basilar artery stenosis or basilar artery occlusion remain a matter of debate. The higher risk of stroke recurrence in patients with vertebrobasilar stenosis compared to anterior circulation atherosclerotic disease creates high expectations concerning endovascular approaches. This study aims to review our experience with percutaneous transluminal angioplasty and stenting in acute stroke caused by basilar artery steno-occlusive disease.
METHODS: Our prospective database from June 2014 until December 2020 was screened and patients with acutely symptomatic severe (>80%) basilar artery stenosis or acute basilar artery occlusion who underwent percutaneous transluminal angioplasty and stenting were analysed.
RESULTS: Twenty-five patients included: 72% men (mean age 68.6 years), all with prior modified Rankin Scale <2. Twelve presented with acute basilar artery occlusion and were submitted to mechanical thrombectomy before percutaneous transluminal angioplasty and stenting, while the remaining had severe basilar artery stenosis. Successful stent placement was achieved in 22 (88%). Procedure-related complications included new small ischemic lesions (16%), basilar artery dissection (8%), vertebral artery dissection (12%) and death (12%). At 3 months post-percutaneous transluminal angioplasty and stenting, 10 out of 23 patients (43.5%) were independent (mRS ≤ 2) and six died. Fourteen patients underwent transcranial Doppler ultrasound 3 months post-percutaneous transluminal angioplasty and stenting: 12 showed residual stenosis, one significant stent restenosis and one presented stent occlusion.
CONCLUSIONS: Percutaneous transluminal angioplasty and stenting showed to be a technically feasible and reasonably safe procedure in selected patients. However, good clinical outcomes may be difficult to achieve as only 43.5% of the patients remained independent at 3 months. Randomized studies are needed to confirm the efficacy and safety outcomes of percutaneous transluminal angioplasty and stenting in acute stroke caused by basilar artery steno-occlusive disease.

Citation: Machado M, et al. Percutaneous transluminal angioplasty and stenting in acute stroke caused by basilar artery steno-occlusive disease: The experience of a single stroke centre. Percutaneous transluminal angioplasty and stenting in acute stroke caused by basilar artery steno-occlusive disease: The experience of a single stroke centre. 2022; 28:547-555. doi: 10.1177/15910199211051830

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34704502/
