PMID: 34713361
Title: Effect of plaque compositions on fractional flow reserve in a fluid-structure interaction analysis.

Abstract: Coronary artery disease involves the reduction of blood flow to the myocardium due to atherosclerotic plaques. The findings of myocardial ischemia may indicate severe coronary stenosis, but many studies have demonstrated a mismatch between lumen stenosis and fractional flow reserve (FFR). Recently, some clinical studies have found that the composition of atherosclerotic plaques may be a potential missing link between stenosis and ischemia. To investigate the relationship between myocardial ischemia and plaque composition, we have developed and adopted a new fluid-structure interaction (FSI) patient-specific coronary plaque model, based on computed tomography angiography data, to assess the impact on FFR as a biomechanical indicator of ischemia. A total of 180 analyses have been performed in 3D-FSI coronary artery disease models based on plaque compositions, plaque location, and stenosis degree. Hemodynamic analysis of simulation results and comparisons with other methods has been conducted to validate our models. Our results have successfully verified that the different compositions of plaques have resulted in differences in the calculated FFR. The mean FFR values with lipid plaques are [Formula: see text] as compared to the mean FFR values in lesions with fibrous plaques [Formula: see text] and calcified plaques [Formula: see text]. Besides, FFR differences between the three different plaque compositions have been shown to increase as the diameter stenosis increased. Plaque composition affects vascular stiffness and vascular dilation ability, and thereby affects the stenosis degree, resulting in abnormal FFR leading to myocardial ischemia. This interrelationship can help to diagnose the cause of high-risk coronary artery disease, leading to myocardial ischemia.

Citation: Wu C, et al. Effect of plaque compositions on fractional flow reserve in a fluid-structure interaction analysis. Effect of plaque compositions on fractional flow reserve in a fluid-structure interaction analysis. 2022; 21:203-220. doi: 10.1007/s10237-021-01529-2

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34713361/
