PMID: 34711554
Title: Carotid Plaque Composition Assessed by CT Predicts Subsequent Cardiovascular Events among Subjects with Carotid Stenosis.

Abstract: BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: Currently, the characteristics of carotid plaques are considered important factors for identifying subjects at high risk of stroke. This study aimed to test the hypothesis that carotid plaque composition assessed by CTA is associated with an increased risk of future major adverse cardiovascular events among asymptomatic subjects with moderate-to-severe carotid artery stenosis.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: This single-center, retrospective cohort study included 194 carotid plaques from 176 asymptomatic subjects with moderate-to-severe carotid artery stenosis. The association of CTA-determined plaque composition with the risk of subsequent adverse cardiovascular events was analyzed.
RESULTS: During a median follow-up of 41 months, the adverse cardiovascular event incidence among 194 carotid plaques was 19.6%. There were significant differences in plaque Hounsfield units (P &lt; .001) and spotty calcium presence (P &lt; .001) between carotid plaques from subjects with and without subsequent adverse cardiovascular events. Multivariable analysis revealed carotid plaque Hounsfield unit density (P &lt; .001) and spotty calcium (P &lt; .001) as independent predictors of subsequent adverse cardiovascular events. In association with moderate carotid artery stenosis, the plaque Hounsfield unit values were significantly lower among carotid plaques from subjects who experienced subsequent adverse cardiovascular events (P = .002), strokes (P = .01), and cardiovascular deaths (P = .04); the presence of spotty calcium was significantly associated with the occurrence of adverse cardiovascular events (P = .001), acute coronary syndrome (P = .01), and cardiovascular death (P = .04).
CONCLUSIONS: Carotid plaque Hounsfield unit density and spotty calcium were independent predictors of a greater risk of adverse cardiovascular event occurrence.

Citation: Choi E, et al. Carotid Plaque Composition Assessed by CT Predicts Subsequent Cardiovascular Events among Subjects with Carotid Stenosis. Carotid Plaque Composition Assessed by CT Predicts Subsequent Cardiovascular Events among Subjects with Carotid Stenosis. 2021; 42:2199-2206. doi: 10.3174/ajnr.A7338

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34711554/
