PMID: 34711184
Title: Comparison of percutaneous transforaminal endoscopic decompression and short-segment fusion in the treatment of elderly degenerative lumbar scoliosis with spinal stenosis.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Degenerative lumbar scoliosis (DLS) combined with spinal stenosis is increasingly being diagnosed in the elderly. However, the appropriate surgical approach remains somewhat controversial. The aim of this study was to compare the results of percutaneous transforaminal endoscopic decompression (PTED) and short-segment fusion for the treatment of mild degenerative lumbar scoliosis combined with spinal stenosis in older adults over 60 years of age.
METHODS: Of the 54 consecutive patients included, 30 were treated with PTED and 24 were treated with short-segment open fusion. All patients were followed up for at least 12 months (12-24 months). Patient demographics, and perioperative and clinical outcomes were recorded. Visual analog scale (VAS) scores, Oswestry disability index (ODI) scores, and modified Macnab criteria were used to assess clinical outcomes. At the same time, changes in disc height, segmental lordosis, coronal Cobb angle, and lumbar lordosis were compared.
RESULTS: The mean age was 68.7 ± 6.5 years in the PTED group and 66.6 ± 5.1 years in the short-segment fusion group. At 1 year postoperatively, both groups showed significant improvement in VAS and ODI scores compared with preoperative scores (p < 0.05), with no statistically significant difference between groups. However, VAS-Back and ODI were lower in the PTED group at 1 week postoperatively (p < 0.05). According to the modified Macnab criteria, the excellent rates were 90.0 and 91.6% in the PTED and short-segment fusion groups, respectively. However, the PTED group had a significantly shorter operative time, blood loss, postoperative hospital stay, postoperative bed rest, and complication rate. There was no significant difference in radiological parameters between the two groups preoperatively. At the last follow-up, there were significant differences in disc height, segmental lordosis at the L4-5 and L5-S1 levels, and Cobb angle between the two groups.
CONCLUSION: Both PTED and short-segment fusion for mild degenerative lumbar scoliosis combined with spinal stenosis have shown good clinical results. PTED under local anesthesia may be an effective supplement to conventional fusion surgery in elderly patients with DLS combined with spinal stenosis.

Citation: Li P, et al. Comparison of percutaneous transforaminal endoscopic decompression and short-segment fusion in the treatment of elderly degenerative lumbar scoliosis with spinal stenosis. Comparison of percutaneous transforaminal endoscopic decompression and short-segment fusion in the treatment of elderly degenerative lumbar scoliosis with spinal stenosis. 2021; 22:906. doi: 10.1186/s12891-021-04804-6

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34711184/
