PMID: 34713653
Title: [Structural design and biomechanical numerical analysis of body-fitted stent in stenotic vessels].

Abstract: To solve the problem of stent malapposition of intravascular stents, explore the design method of intravascular body-fitted stent structure and to establish an objective apposition evaluation method, the support and apposition performance of body-fitted stent in the stenotic vessels with different degrees of calcified plaque were simulated and analyzed. The traditional tube-mesh-like stent model was constructed by using computational aided design tool SolidWorks, and based on this model, the body-fitted stent model was designed by means of projection algorithm. Abaqus was used to simulate the crimping-expansion-recoil process of the two stents in the stenotic vessel with incompletely calcified plaque and completely calcified plaque respectively. A comprehensive method for apposition evaluation was proposed considering three aspects such as separation distance, fraction of non-contact area and residual volume. Compared with the traditional stent, the separation distances of the body-fitted stent in the incompletely calcified plaque model and the completely calcified plaque model were decreased by 21.5% and 22.0% respectively, the fractions of non-contact areas were decreased by 11.3% and 11.1% respectively, and the residual volumes were decreased by 93.1% and 92.5% respectively. The body-fitted stent improved the apposition performance and was effective in both incompletely and completely calcified plaque models. The established apposition performance evaluation method of stent considered more geometric factors, and the results were more comprehensive and objective.

Citation: Liu S, et al. [Structural design and biomechanical numerical analysis of body-fitted stent in stenotic vessels]. [Structural design and biomechanical numerical analysis of body-fitted stent in stenotic vessels]. 2021; 38:858-868. doi: 10.7507/1001-5515.202012011

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34713653/
