PMID: 34722570
Title: Case Report: Management of Primary Tracheobronchial Light Chain Amyloidosis in a Patient With Biclonal Gammopathy Using a Systemic Bortezomib-Based Regimen.

Abstract: Primary tracheobronchial light chain (AL) amyloidosis is a rare and heterogeneous disease characterized by the buildup of amyloid deposits in the airway mucosa. Although its treatment remains challenging, the current view is that the localized form can be treated conservatively due to its slow progression. While radiotherapy has proven effective in treating localized form of the disease, some patients do not respond to local treatment and continue to experience poor quality of life, highlighting the need to explore additional treatment strategies. In this report, we discuss a case of primary tracheobronchial AL amyloidosis with biclonal gammopathy (IgA κ and IgG κ) in a 46-year-old man who was transferred to our hospital due to dyspnea progression over the preceding 3 years. Chest computed tomography revealed irregular tracheobronchial stenosis with wall thickening, and histological examination of the bronchial biopsies confirmed the diagnosis of endobronchial AL amyloidosis. Owing to the poor effect of radiation therapy and treatments for improving airway patency, he was treated with a systemic chemotherapy regimen [cyclophosphamide-bortezomib-dexamethasone (CyBorD)]. We observed substantial improvements in his dyspnea, highlighting the potential of systemic therapy to improve quality of life of patients with tracheobronchial AL amyloidosis. However, the long-term pathological changes associated with local bronchial lesions require further investigation.

Citation: Yan W, et al. Case Report: Management of Primary Tracheobronchial Light Chain Amyloidosis in a Patient With Biclonal Gammopathy Using a Systemic Bortezomib-Based Regimen. Case Report: Management of Primary Tracheobronchial Light Chain Amyloidosis in a Patient With Biclonal Gammopathy Using a Systemic Bortezomib-Based Regimen. 2021; 8:728561. doi: 10.3389/fmed.2021.728561

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34722570/
