PMID: 34726554
Title: Phenotype of Crohn's disease according to the Montreal classification in relation to dental health status.

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: The relationship between oral health and Crohn's disease is uncertain. Previous studies have yielded contradictory results, reflecting perhaps the different phenotypes of the disease. The aim of the present study was to describe and analyse the dental status of a group of patients with Crohn's disease (CD), considering the positions of the inflammatory loci and disease phenotype.
METHODS: In total, 47 patients with Crohn's disease (18 males and 30 females; mean age. 48.7 years; range, 23-61 years) were consecutively recruited to this study. Interviews and clinical examinations were performed to assess dental status, medication, smoking history, heredity of inflammatory bowel disease (IBD), duration of disease, oral mucosal manifestations of Crohn's disease. Furthermore, data on subjective health assessments and family status, along with medical histories from the patients were obtained through questionnaires. The disease phenotypes were assessed and classified according to the Montreal classification. The data on oral health status were first correlated with the Montreal classifications of IBD, and, thereafter, all the collected data were included in a multivariate generalised linear model.
RESULTS: The dental status of the patients was comparable to that of the Swedish average. No statistically significant associations were found between oral status and the different CD phenotypes. However, within the Montreal classification, there were significantly fewer teeth in those patients with perianal lesions than in those without such lesions, and there was a significant correlation between deeper pocket depth and problems with strictures and penetrations. No significant differences (p = .074) between the patients with CD (N = 47) and controls (N = 38) were found regarding the presence of oral mucosal lesions.
CONCLUSION: Dental health may be adversely affected in severe cases of CD whereas most of the remaining patients with CD appear to have a level of dental health that is comparable to that in the general population.

Citation: Hilon J, et al. Phenotype of Crohn's disease according to the Montreal classification in relation to dental health status. Phenotype of Crohn's disease according to the Montreal classification in relation to dental health status. 2022; 57:183-189. doi: 10.1080/00365521.2021.1995481

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34726554/
