PMID: 34721620
Title: Relationship between Different Degrees of Compression and Clinical Symptoms in Patients with Myocardial Bridge and the Risk Factors of Proximal Atherosclerosis.

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: To explore the relationship between different degrees of compression and clinical symptoms in patients with the myocardial bridge and the risk factors of proximal atherosclerosis.
METHODS: The clinical data of 156 patients with the myocardial bridge who underwent selective coronary angiography in our hospital from December 2010 to December 2015 were collected. The patients were divided into Noble grade I group (102 cases) and Noble grades II-III group (54 cases) according to the degree of mural coronary artery systolic stenosis. According to the results of coronary angiography, 156 patients with the myocardial bridge were divided into an atherosclerosis group (the myocardial bridge combined with atherosclerosis at the proximal end of the myocardial bridge of simple wall coronary artery), 91 cases, and a control group (isolated myocardial bridge), 65 cases. The relationship between different degrees of compression and clinical symptoms in patients with the myocardial bridge was observed, and the logistic regression model was used to analyze the risk factors of proximal atherosclerosis in patients with the myocardial bridge.
RESULTS: The incidence of atherosclerotic stenosis, angina pectoris, and myocardial infarction in the proximal part of the myocardial bridge in the Noble grades II-III group was higher than that in the Noble grade I group (P &lt; 0.05). The differences in age, hypertension, and Noble classification between the two groups were statistically significant (P &lt; 0.05). The differences of total cholesterol (TC) and C-reactive protein (CRP) between the two groups were statistically significant (P &lt; 0.05). Multivariate analysis showed that age, hypertension, Noble grade, and CRP were all risk factors for proximal atherosclerosis in patients with the myocardial bridge (P &lt; 0.05).
CONCLUSION: The more severe the compression of the myocardial bridge, the greater the risk of cardiovascular events for patients and the higher the incidence of atherosclerotic stenosis in the proximal part of the myocardial bridge. In addition, the occurrence of atherosclerosis in the proximal coronary artery of the myocardial bridge may be affected by age, hypertension, Noble grade, and CRP level.

Citation: Zhang J, et al. Relationship between Different Degrees of Compression and Clinical Symptoms in Patients with Myocardial Bridge and the Risk Factors of Proximal Atherosclerosis. Relationship between Different Degrees of Compression and Clinical Symptoms in Patients with Myocardial Bridge and the Risk Factors of Proximal Atherosclerosis. 2021; 2021:2087609. doi: 10.1155/2021/2087609

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34721620/
