PMID: 34737098
Title: Intratumoral Hemorrhage After Endoscopic Third Ventriculostomy for Obstructive Hydrocephalus Caused by Brain Tumors.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Endoscopic third ventriculostomy (ETV) for obstructive hydrocephalus and endoscopic biopsy (EB) for intraventricular and paraventricular tumors are standard therapies because they are minimally invasive procedures. Although EB-associated hemorrhagic risk has been well documented, there have been only a few reports on hemorrhagic risk associated with ETV. We conducted a single-institution retrospective study on the incidence of hemorrhage secondary to EB and/or ETV.
METHODS: We retrospectively reviewed patient characteristics, procedure, pathological findings, and complications including hemorrhage of 100 patients with intraventricular and paraventricular tumors who underwent EB and/or ETV at our institution from 2000 to 2020.
RESULTS: EB/ETV combined surgery (combined group), EB-alone surgery (EB-alone group), and ETV-alone surgery (ETV-alone group) were performed in 44 (44%), 24 (24%), and 32 (32%) patients, respectively, and all procedures were successful. The rates of definitive and suggestive diagnoses in EB were 76.5% and 23.5%, respectively. Adverse events were observed in 6 patients. In the combined group, acute obstruction of the ETV stoma was observed in 1 patient and transient double vision was observed in 1 patient. Transient aqueductal stenosis/obstruction was observed in 2 patients in the EB-alone group. In the ETV-alone group, hemorrhage was observed in 2 patients; these patients developed intratumoral hemorrhage despite ETV-alone surgery. Subsequently, these 2 patients underwent tumor removal, and the histopathological diagnosis was atypical teratoid/rhabdoid tumor in both.
CONCLUSIONS: For obstructive hydrocephalus with atypical teratoid/rhabdoid tumor, physicians must be aware of the risk of postoperative intratumoral hemorrhage after performing ETV.

Citation: Taguchi A, et al. Intratumoral Hemorrhage After Endoscopic Third Ventriculostomy for Obstructive Hydrocephalus Caused by Brain Tumors. Intratumoral Hemorrhage After Endoscopic Third Ventriculostomy for Obstructive Hydrocephalus Caused by Brain Tumors. 2022; 158:e256-e264. doi: 10.1016/j.wneu.2021.10.161

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34737098/
