PMID: 34733657
Title: Simultaneous antegrade urography of the upper urinary tract and retrograde cystography combined with computed tomography imaging in the management of ureteral complications after renal transplantation.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: To investigate the significance of simultaneous urography of the upper and lower urinary tract of transplanted kidneys combined with computed tomography urography (CTU), computed tomography arteriography (CTA), and computed tomography venography imaging in the planning of open surgery performed to treat any ureteral complications of a transplanted kidney.
METHODS: In all, 24 patients with ureteral complications after renal transplantation were admitted, 12 of whom had renal graft ostomy during open surgery. Simultaneous antegrade urography of the upper urinary tract and retrograde cystography of the transplanted kidneys were performed on the patients. With the use of computed tomography imaging results, surgical planning was carried out.
RESULTS: All surgeries were successfully completed according to preoperative planning. Three patients underwent end-to-end anastomosis of the ureter and bladder muscle flap, 8 patients underwent ureterocystostomy, and 1 patient underwent an end-to-end ureteral anastomosis. After the follow-up up to now, all the patients had stable renal function, and no complications such as ureteral stenosis or urine leakage have thus far reoccurred in the transplanted kidneys.
CONCLUSIONS: When open surgery is required to treat any ureteral complications following renal transplantation, preoperative multiangle imaging can be used to better understand the condition of the transplanted urinary tract and thus aid considerably in surgical planning.

Citation: Zhang L, et al. Simultaneous antegrade urography of the upper urinary tract and retrograde cystography combined with computed tomography imaging in the management of ureteral complications after renal transplantation. Simultaneous antegrade urography of the upper urinary tract and retrograde cystography combined with computed tomography imaging in the management of ureteral complications after renal transplantation. 2021; 10:3620-3627. doi: 10.21037/tau-21-614

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34733657/
