PMID: 34738052
Title: Percutaneous mitral valve edge-to-edge repair for late systolic anterior motion after surgical mitral valve repair: a case report.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Late post-operative systolic anterior motion (SAM) is a rare but challenging issue. The feasibility of percutaneous mitral valve edge-to-edge repair (PMVR) using the MitraClip to treat late refractory SAM after surgical mitral valve repair has rarely been reported in the literature.
CASE SUMMARY: An 88-year-old woman with a history of mitral valve repair for a P2 prolapse 14 years before, presented with signs of congestive heart failure. Transoesophageal echocardiogram (TOE) demonstrated significant SAM of the anterior mitral leaflet, resulting in the detachment from the posterior mitral leaflet in mid-to-late systole and severe mitral regurgitation (MR). The heart team decided to perform PMVR using the MitraClip to simultaneously address the issues of SAM and MR, considering the patient's high surgical risk. TOE after the clip deployment at the medial edge of the mitral valve, where the most severe SAM was detected, confirmed resolution of SAM with marked reduction of MR. The patient was discharged home with good haemodynamic compensation.
DISCUSSION: Post-operative SAM typically occurs immediately after the reparative surgery and resolves with conservative treatment; however, persistent SAM requiring repeat surgery remains a serious concern. As an alternative strategy, the MitraClip has some advantages, including low procedural risk, immediately observable results, and the ability to relocate the clip. Meanwhile, the greater risk of post-procedural mitral stenosis, particularly in patients undergoing mitral repair, should be taken into account. In our case, the clip deployment at the medial edge of the valve could minimize the progression of mitral stenosis with a satisfactory reduction of MR.

Citation: Ishizu K, et al. Percutaneous mitral valve edge-to-edge repair for late systolic anterior motion after surgical mitral valve repair: a case report. Percutaneous mitral valve edge-to-edge repair for late systolic anterior motion after surgical mitral valve repair: a case report. 2021; 5:ytab216. doi: 10.1093/ehjcr/ytab216

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34738052/
