PMID: 34733692
Title: Transcatheter valve implantation for degenerated tricuspid bioprosthesis and failed tricuspid ring.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Transcatheter tricuspid valve-in-valve (TViV) and valve in-ring (TViR) implantation have become a viable therapy for a failed tricuspid bioprosthesis. Here we report short (thirty days) and long (one-year) term clinical outcomes of ten patients who underwent TViV at our institution.
METHODS: The electronic databases of New York Presbyterian Columbia Medical Center were retrospectively reviewed for cases of transcatheter tricuspid valve replacement (TViV or TViR). Between 2012 and 2019, data from ten patients who underwent TViV were collected. The primary safety outcome was procedure-related adverse events, including clinically evident cardiac perforation, new pericardial effusion and sustained ventricular arrhythmia. The primary efficacy endpoint was defined as successful valve deployment with total (paravalvular or intravalvular) tricuspid regurgitation (TR) estimated as mild or less. Results are descriptive in nature.
RESULTS: A total of ten patients who underwent TViV were included in the study. Of them, 40% presented with isolated tricuspid bioprosthetic stenosis (TS), 20% with isolated TR and 40% with mixed TS and TR. All patients were treated with the SAPIEN valve (first generation, XT, or Sapien 3). The TViV procedure was successful in all patients, and no immediate post-replacement paravalvular leak (PVL) or intra-procedural complications were reported. The primary safety and efficacy endpoints were met in all patients. At thirty-days, all patients were alive and reported significant improvements in symptoms and functional status.
CONCLUSIONS: Transcatheter tricuspid valve implantation is a safe and effective therapy for degenerative tricuspid bioprosthesis.

Citation: Chen S, et al. Transcatheter valve implantation for degenerated tricuspid bioprosthesis and failed tricuspid ring. Transcatheter valve implantation for degenerated tricuspid bioprosthesis and failed tricuspid ring. 2021; 10:651-657. doi: 10.21037/acs-2021-tviv-11

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34733692/
