PMID: 34730214
Title: Screening of QTc interval and global autonomic activity in autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease and atherosclerotic renal artery stenosis hypertensive patients.

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: Arterial hypertension (AH) represents a major risk factor for cardiovascular disease and is associated to several complications, such as prolonged corrected QT (QTc) interval and impaired heart rate variability (HRV). Secondary causes of AH include autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease (ADPKD) and atherosclerotic renal artery stenosis (ARAS), both known to be related to arrhythmic risk and autonomic imbalance. The aim of the study is to evaluate whether global autonomic activity and QTc interval differently affect ADPKD and ARAS hypertensive patients.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: An observational study was performed on 59 patients: 16 ADPKD patients and 19 diagnosed with ARAS, compared to 24 healthy controls (HC). All patients underwent clinical evaluation, biochemical lab tests, 24-hour electrocardiogram (ECG) and renal Doppler ultrasound. HRV was assessed through the analysis of 24-hour ECG to detect standard deviation of normal-to-normal RR intervals (SDNN). QTc interval was defined as prolonged when > 440 msec.
RESULTS: SDNN was significantly lower in ADPKD and ARAS patients than HC (p < 0.0001) and no significant differences were found between ADPKD and ARAS patients (p > 0.05). QTc was found significantly higher in ARAS patients than HC (p = 0.001) and in ARAS patients than ADPKD patients (p = 0.004).
CONCLUSIONS: The pathogenesis of hypertension in ADPKD and ARAS patients is related to the activation of the renin angiotensin aldosterone system (RAAS). In ADPKD, cyst enlargement leads to kidney ischemia and renin release, associated to endothelial dysfunction, low nitric oxide and sympathetic tone activation. Differently, reduction in renal perfusion pressure activates RAAS and renal adrenergic nerves in ARAS patients. We can speculate that prolonged QTc interval is more present in ARAS vs. ADPKD hypertensive patients due to a greater activation of RAAS. We suggest adding 24-hour HRV evaluation in association with traditional risk factors in course of ADPKD and ARAS hypertension to better stratify cardiovascular risk in these groups of patients.

Citation: Lai S, et al. Screening of QTc interval and global autonomic activity in autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease and atherosclerotic renal artery stenosis hypertensive patients. Screening of QTc interval and global autonomic activity in autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease and atherosclerotic renal artery stenosis hypertensive patients. 2021; 25:6333-6338. doi: 10.26355/eurrev_202110_27005

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34730214/
