PMID: 34754889
Title: Transplantation of acellularized dermis matrix (ADM) plus fully covered metal stent to prevent stricture after circumferential endoscopic submucosal dissection of early esophageal cancer (with video).

Abstract: BACKGROUD AND STUDY AIMS: Esophageal stricture is a serious adverse event occurring after circular endoscopic submucosal dissection (ESD) involving the whole esophagus. However, there is still a lack of effectively preventive methods. The main purpose of this study is to evaluate the efficacy of application of acellularized dermis matrix (ADM) for the prevention of post-ESD esophageal stricture. The main objective of this study was to evaluate the use of decellularized dermal matrix (ADM) in the prevention of post-esophageal ESD strictures.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: A pilot, single-center, prospective study was conducted. The study enrolled seven patients who had high-risks with extended resection of developing post-ESD esophageal stricture. After undergoing ESD, we attached different size of ADM patches to the mucosal defects using titanium clips then fixed with a metal mesh stent. The stent covered with metal mesh was removed at the median time of 27 days after the endoscopic procedure. Follow-up and repeated outpatient endoscopic screening were performed at appropriate scheduled times.
RESULTS: The average longitudinal diameter of the resected specimens was 58.3 mm (range 38-90 mm). There were three patients developing strictures postoperatively at a mean time of 87 days (range 42-140). The median number of postoperative endoscopic balloon dilatation (EBD) in patients with stenosis was 2 (range 2-9). There were no deaths during a median follow-up period of 6 moths (range 1-12).
CONCLUSIONS: This study was performed to assess the efficacy and safe method of relieving the severity of esophageal stricture after ESD through transplantation of ADM.

Citation: Zhou XB, et al. Transplantation of acellularized dermis matrix (ADM) plus fully covered metal stent to prevent stricture after circumferential endoscopic submucosal dissection of early esophageal cancer (with video). Transplantation of acellularized dermis matrix (ADM) plus fully covered metal stent to prevent stricture after circumferential endoscopic submucosal dissection of early esophageal cancer (with video). 2021; 18:441-446. doi: 10.1016/j.reth.2021.10.002

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34754889/
