PMID: 34765480
Title: Effect of adenoid hypertrophy on the upper airway and craniomaxillofacial region.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: In recent years, annual incidences of adenoid hypertrophy (AH), a highly common tissue lesion in children, have increased. Currently, research on AH has focused on its obstruction of nasal cavity function, and little has been written on its influence on the upper airway's bone structure. For this reason, our present study seeks to determine the influence of AH on both the morphological development characteristics of the upper airway and the craniofacial features in children, with the goal being to offer more choices for diagnosing and treating the condition in the future.
METHODS: From June 2019 to December 2020 in Department of Orthodontics, Beijing Stomatological Hospital, Capital Medical University, 38 children with AH admitted to the Department of Otolaryngology [research group (RG)] and 35 children [control group (CG)] who underwent orthodontic treatment over the same time span were selected as the research objects. X-ray examination of the lateral position of the head, observation of the maxillofacial structure, and detection of the children's height, growth factors, and sleep status, and analysis of the differences between the two groups.
RESULTS: The height of RG, insulin-like growth factor-1 (IGF-1) as well as insulin-like growth factor binding protein-3 (IGFBP-3) were all lower than CG (P<0.05), the upper airway became narrower, and the malocclusion was aggravated (P<0.05). Cephalometric measurement showed that the angle between the subspinale and sella at nasion (SNA angle) and the angle between the subspinale and supraemental at nasion (ANB angle) of RG children decreased, and the angle between the supraemental and sella at nasion (SNB angle) increased (P<0.05). In addition, the sleep quality of RG was significantly lower than that of CG (P<0.05).
CONCLUSIONS: AH can change a child's breathing mode and function by giving rise to upper airway stenosis, and by inducing deformities of their craniomaxillofacial region and oral cavity, thus disrupting their normal growth and development.

Citation: Wang H, et al. Effect of adenoid hypertrophy on the upper airway and craniomaxillofacial region. Effect of adenoid hypertrophy on the upper airway and craniomaxillofacial region. 2021; 10:2563-2572. doi: 10.21037/tp-21-437

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34765480/
