PMID: 34764031
Title: Comparison of Transcatheter Aortic Valve Implantation Outcomes Between Normal-Flow, Low-Gradient Severe Aortic Stenosis and Normal-Flow, High-Gradient Severe Aortic Stenosis.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Normal flow low gradient severe aortic stenosis (NFLG-AS) with preserved ejection fraction is the most prevalent form of low gradient severe aortic stenosis. Despite the increased prevalence, the clinical outcomes and management strategy of NFLG-AS remain controversial. Therefore, our study aimed to evaluate transcatheter aortic valve implantation (TAVI) outcomes of patients with NFLG-AS compared with normal flow high gradient severe aortic stenosis (NFHG-AS).
METHODS: We performed a retrospective analysis of 394 patients who underwent TAVI between January 2011 to September 2020. Among 394 patients, 232 patients had NFLG-AS, and 162 patients had NFHG-AS. The primary outcomes included all-cause mortality and cardiovascular mortality. In addition, multiple secondary outcomes were evaluated, including stroke, myocardial infarction, duration of hospital stay, new-onset atrial fibrillation, temporary or permanent pacemaker requirement, major bleeding, blood transfusion, vascular complications, acute kidney injury, hemodialysis requirement, symptom improvement, and repeat hospitalizations due to any cardiac disease.
RESULTS: The cumulative six months incidence of all-cause mortality and cardiovascular mortality were similar between and NFLG-AS and NFHG-AS (4.32% vs. 5.17%, P = 0.71 and 2.47% vs. 2.59%, P = 0.94 respectively). There was no difference in the rates of stroke, myocardial infarction, duration of hospital stay, new-onset atrial fibrillation, temporary or permanent pacemaker requirement, major bleeding, blood transfusion, vascular complications, acute kidney injury, hemodialysis requirement, and symptom improvement between the two groups. However, patients with NFLG-AS compared to NFHG-AS had more frequent cardiac-related repeat hospitalizations (19.14% vs. 11.64%, P = 0.04%).
CONCLUSION: There was no significant difference in all-cause mortality and cardiovascular mortality between NFLG-AS and NGHG-AS six months post-TAVI. However, patients undergoing TAVI with NFLG-AS had significantly higher rates of cardiac-related repeat hospitalizations.

Citation: Baljepally R, et al. Comparison of Transcatheter Aortic Valve Implantation Outcomes Between Normal-Flow, Low-Gradient Severe Aortic Stenosis and Normal-Flow, High-Gradient Severe Aortic Stenosis. Comparison of Transcatheter Aortic Valve Implantation Outcomes Between Normal-Flow, Low-Gradient Severe Aortic Stenosis and Normal-Flow, High-Gradient Severe Aortic Stenosis. 2022; 39:12-17. doi: 10.1016/j.carrev.2021.10.020

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34764031/
