PMID: 34775522
Title: Side-overlap esophagogastric tube (SO-EG) reconstruction after minimally invasive Ivor Lewis esophagectomy or laparoscopic proximal gastrectomy for cancer of the esophagogastric junction.

Abstract: PURPOSE: Both laparoscopic proximal gastrectomy with lower esophagectomy (extended LPG) and minimally invasive Ivor Lewis esophagectomy (MIILE) are acceptable treatments for adenocarcinoma of the esophagogastric junction (AEG), but the optimal reconstruction technique for mediastinal esophagogastrostomy (one that provides adequate reflux prevention) has not been established. We devised a novel side-overlap esophagogastric-tube (SO-EG) reconstruction.
METHODS: We performed a retrospective review of patient records after LPG or MIILE. In each patient, we created a 3-cm wide gastric tube, overlapping the esophagus by 5 cm. A linear stapler was inserted into the left side of the esophageal stump and the anterior gastric wall along the greater curvature. The entry hole was closed to make a slit-like anastomosis, and the right side of the esophageal wall was fixed to the anterior gastric wall.
RESULTS: Ten consecutive patients underwent this procedure between June 2020 and July 2021. Five patients had Siewert type II AEG: 4 with lower thoracic esophageal cancer and 1 with benign lower esophageal stenosis. A total of 3 patients underwent extended LPG, and 7 underwent MIILE. The median operative time was 352 min (range, 221-556 min). The postoperative course was uneventful in 9 patients; a single patient developed pneumonia. Seven patients underwent follow-up endoscopy at 6 months. One patient with anastomotic stenosis and 2 with mild reflux esophagitis were treated conservatively.
CONCLUSION: Our novel SO-EG reconstruction is simple and feasible, with acceptable results for preventing reflux esophagitis. This technique can be performed with either extended LPG or MIILE.

Citation: Hosogi H, et al. Side-overlap esophagogastric tube (SO-EG) reconstruction after minimally invasive Ivor Lewis esophagectomy or laparoscopic proximal gastrectomy for cancer of the esophagogastric junction. Side-overlap esophagogastric tube (SO-EG) reconstruction after minimally invasive Ivor Lewis esophagectomy or laparoscopic proximal gastrectomy for cancer of the esophagogastric junction. 2022; 407:861-869. doi: 10.1007/s00423-021-02377-5

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34775522/
