PMID: 34776130
Title: Recognition of prodromal cervical spondylotic myelopathy presenting in a U.S. Veteran referred to chiropractic for acute thoracic pain: A case report.

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: To highlight a patient who was referred to a VA chiropractic clinic for thoracic pain and upon physical exam was found to be myelopathic, subsequently requiring surgery.
CLINICAL FEATURES: A 58-year-old male attended a telephone interview with the VA chiropractic clinic for thoracic pain of 4 months duration; he denied neck pain, upper extremity symptoms or clumsiness of the feet or hands. At his in-person visit, he acknowledged frequently dropping items. The physical examination revealed signs of myelopathy including positive Hoffman's bilaterally, 3+ brisk patellar reflexes, and 5+ beats of ankle clonus bilaterally. He also had difficulty walking heel/toe.
INTERVENTION AND OUTCOME: Cervical and thoracic radiographs were ordered and a referral was placed to the Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation (PM&R) Clinic for evaluation of the abnormal neurologic exam and suspicion of cervical spondylotic myelopathy (CSM). He was treated for 2 visits in the chiropractic clinic for his thoracic pain, with resolution of thoracic symptoms. No treatment was rendered to the cervical spine. The PM&R physician ordered a cervical MRI which demonstrated severe central canal stenosis and increased T2 signal within the cord at C5-C6, representing myelopathic changes. The PM&R specialist referred him to Neurosurgery which resulted in a C5-6, C6-7 anterior cervical discectomy and fusion.
CONCLUSION: The importance of physical examination competency and routine thoroughness cannot be overstated. Swift identification of pathologic signs by the treating chiropractor resulted in timely imaging and surgical intervention.

Citation: Price M, et al. Recognition of prodromal cervical spondylotic myelopathy presenting in a U.S. Veteran referred to chiropractic for acute thoracic pain: A case report. Recognition of prodromal cervical spondylotic myelopathy presenting in a U.S. Veteran referred to chiropractic for acute thoracic pain: A case report. 2021; 28:13-17. doi: 10.1016/j.jbmt.2021.07.041

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34776130/
