PMID: 34775018
Title: Parallel Graft to Preserve a Reimplanted Inferior Mesenteric Artery During Thoracoabdominal Multibranched Endografting.

Abstract: INTRODUCTION: Preserving pelvic circulation is crucial to minimize the risk of spinal cord and colonic ischemia, especially during the endovascular treatment of extended thoraco-abdominal aneurysm (TAAA) after previous open repair (OR).
CASE REPORT: A 78-years-old patient, previously treated for AAA with OR and reimplantation of inferior mesenteric artery (IMA), has presented with 9 cm type-III TAAA and underwent to a multi-stage endovascular procedure. Two thoracic endografts, t-Branch and a straight endograft by Cook Zenith platform were deployed. Renal and superior mesenteric arteries were cannulated and revascularized. Through the left axillary access, a 5F-vertebral catheter was delivered over a 0.035 inch guidewire to selectively catheterize IMA. A post-anastomotic stenosis was stented to advance the sheath and the parallel-graft (Viabahn 7 × 150 mm, Gore) into the artery. Thus, a bifurcated endograft was deployed inside the previous OR. According to the Sandwich-Technique, the stentgraft was deployed parallel and outside the bifurcated device, inside the straight one and 2 cm into the IMA and then reinforced by a bare-metal-stent (Protégé EverFlex™ 7 × 120 mm, Medtronic). Finally, a kissing ballooning of iliac endografts and parallel-graft was performed. The procedure was completed five days later, by stenting the celiac trunk. Post-operative course was uneventful. The 36-months CTA showed the patency of the IMA with no complications.
CONCLUSION: The combination of t-Branch and Sandwich-Technique for IMA could be employed to treat extended TAAA with previous OR and reimplanted IMA thus minimizing the risk of colonic and spinal cord ischemia.

Citation: Fenelli C, et al. Parallel Graft to Preserve a Reimplanted Inferior Mesenteric Artery During Thoracoabdominal Multibranched Endografting. Parallel Graft to Preserve a Reimplanted Inferior Mesenteric Artery During Thoracoabdominal Multibranched Endografting. 2022; 80:394.e1-394.e6. doi: 10.1016/j.avsg.2021.09.039

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34775018/
