PMID: 34775949
Title: Changes of cerebral cortical structure and cognitive dysfunction in "healthy hemisphere" after stroke: a study about cortical complexity and sulcus patterns in bilateral ischemic adult moyamoya disease.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Moyamoya disease (MMD) is an uncommon cerebrovascular disease which leads to progressive stenosis and occlusion of the bilateral internal carotid artery and main intracerebral arteries. Concerns are always on how the hemisphere with infarction affects cognitive function, while little attention is paid to the role that the non-infarcted hemisphere plays. Therefore, we aimed to detect cortical indexes, especially cortical complexity in the left or right hemisphere separately in patients with MMD after stroke.
METHODS: 28 patients with MMD (14 males, 14 females) and 14 healthy controls were included in this study. All participants underwent cognitive tests and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scan. The preprocessing of three-dimensional T1 weighted images were performed by standard surface-based morphometry. Surface-based morphometry statistical analysis was carried out with a threshold of False Discovery Rate (FDR) P < 0.05 and fractal dimension (FD) was used to provide a quantitative description of cerebral cortical complexity.
RESULTS: Widespread cognitive dysfunctions were found in MMD patient with stroke. Extensive FD reduction in the left hemisphere with right-sided infarction, mainly in the superior temporal, inferior frontal, and insula, while the post central gyrus, superior parietal, and inferior parietal gyrus also showed a wide range of significant differences (FDR corrected P < 0.05). Meanwhile, FD changes in the right hemisphere with left-sided infarction are restricted to the precuneus and cingulate isthmus (FDR corrected P < 0.05).
CONCLUSIONS: Extensive cognitive impairment was reconfirmed in Moyamoya disease with stroke, while wild and asymmetrical decrease of cortical complexity is observed on both sides. These differences could be relative to unbalanced cognitive dysfunction, and may be the result of a long-term chronic ischemia and compensatory of the contralateral hemisphere to the infarction.

Citation: Liu Z, et al. Changes of cerebral cortical structure and cognitive dysfunction in "healthy hemisphere" after stroke: a study about cortical complexity and sulcus patterns in bilateral ischemic adult moyamoya disease. Changes of cerebral cortical structure and cognitive dysfunction in "healthy hemisphere" after stroke: a study about cortical complexity and sulcus patterns in bilateral ischemic adult moyamoya disease. 2021; 22:66. doi: 10.1186/s12868-021-00672-x

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34775949/
