PMID: 34774813
Title: An overview of in-stent restenosis in iliofemoral venous stents.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Although endovenous stents have been associated with overall low morbidity, they can require reinterventions to correct stent malfunction due to in-stent restenosis (ISR). ISR has often occurred iliofemoral venous stents but has not been well described. It has been reported to develop in >70% of patients who have undergone iliofemoral venous stenting. We sought to provide an overview of ISR in iliofemoral venous stents, including the pathologic, diagnostic, and management considerations and the identification of several areas of potential research in the future.
METHODS: A search of reported English-language studies was performed in PubMed and the Cochrane Library. "In-stent restenosis," "vein," "venous," "iliac," and "iliofemoral" were used as keywords. The pertinent reports included in the present review had addressed the pathology, diagnosis, and current management options for ISR.
RESULTS: ISR refers to the narrowing of the luminal caliber of the stent owing to the development of stenosis inside the stent itself. ISR should be differentiated from stent compression. Two main types of ISR have been described: soft and hard lesions. These lesions respond differently to angioplasty. Stent inflow and shear stress are important factors in the development of ISR. The treatment options available at present include balloon angioplasty (hyperdilation or isodilation), laser ablation, atherectomy, and Z-stent placement.
CONCLUSIONS: Reintervention for ISR should be determined by the presence of residual or recurrent symptoms and not simply by a numeric value obtained from an imaging study. Overall stent occlusion due to ISR is rare, and no role exists for prophylactic angioplasty to treat asymptomatic ISR. The current treatment options for ISR are mostly durable and effective. However, more research is needed on methods to prevent the development of ISR. The role of antiplatelet and anticoagulant agents in the prevention of ISR requires further investigation, with particular attention to unique subset of patients (after thrombosis vs nonthrombotic iliac vein lesions). For high-risk, post-thrombotic patients, anticoagulation can be considered to prevent ISR. The role of triple therapy (anticoagulation and dual antiplatelet therapy) in the prevention of ISR remains unclear.

Citation: Saleem T and Raju S. An overview of in-stent restenosis in iliofemoral venous stents. An overview of in-stent restenosis in iliofemoral venous stents. 2022; 10:492-503.e2. doi: 10.1016/j.jvsv.2021.10.011

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34774813/
