PMID: 34781406
Title: Wrap-Clipping for Patients with Ruptured Blood Blister-Like Aneurysms of the Internal Carotid Artery: Case Series and Literature Review.

Abstract: OBJECTIVE:  Blood blister-like aneurysms (BBAs) of the internal carotid artery (ICA) are challenging to treat. We assessed the clinical and radiologic outcomes in patients with ruptured BBAs of the ICA treated with wrap-clipping.
METHODS:  From November 2016 to January 2020, the clinical and radiologic data of patients with subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH) caused by ICA BBAs who underwent wrap-clipping were retrospectively analyzed. The clinical outcomes were evaluated according to the modified Rankin Scale (mRS). Radiologic follow-up examinations included digital subtraction angiography (DSA), computed tomography angiography (CTA), and magnetic resonance angiography (MRA).
RESULTS:  Seven patients were enrolled in this study. All BBAs were wrap-clipped successfully, including two BBAs that exhibited intraoperative bleeding and required balloon-assistance during surgery. All patients had favorable clinical outcomes during follow-up. Among the six patients who completed the radiologic follow-up visit, one patient presented ICA occlusion at the 6-month DSA follow-up, but no neurologic dysfunction was noted. We did not observe the progression of ICA stenosis in other patients.
CONCLUSION:  All BBAs in this study were wrap-clipped successfully and completely occluded. Wrap-clipping is effective for BBAs of the ICA and has favorable clinical outcomes. A multicenter study with a large sample size and a longer radiologic follow-up is necessary.

Citation: Zhai XD, et al. Wrap-Clipping for Patients with Ruptured Blood Blister-Like Aneurysms of the Internal Carotid Artery: Case Series and Literature Review. Wrap-Clipping for Patients with Ruptured Blood Blister-Like Aneurysms of the Internal Carotid Artery: Case Series and Literature Review. 2022; 83:301-307. doi: 10.1055/s-0041-1731756

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34781406/
