PMID: 34798674
Title: [Chronic pancreatitis: update diagnostic and therapeutic concepts].

Abstract: INTRODUCTION: Chronic pancreatitis (CP) is a frequent cause for hospitalization and is associated with impaired quality of life and reduced overall survival. The German Society for Gastroenterology (DGVS) has recently completed the S3-Guideline "Pancreatitis" that summarizes key findings on epidemiology, diagnostic and therapeutic concepts for acute and chronic pancreatitis. Here, we recapitulate the most relevant findings for clinicians regarding CP.
RESULTS: The most common cause of CP is chronic alcohol abuse, other causes are hereditary pancreatitis, autoimmune pancreatitis, hyperparathyroidism and idiopathic forms. Apart from the classical hereditary pancreatitis (PRSS1 mutation), a number of genetic associations have been discovered over the last years that are associated with an increased risk to develop idiopathic CP. The conservative management of CP is focused on the appropriate management of exocrine and endocrine insufficiency, and the prevention and treatment of secondary complications such as osteoporosis, vitamin deficiencies and malnutrition. Local complications (bile duct stenosis, duodenal stenosis, pseudocysts and chronic pain) should be managed in multidisciplinary teams in specialized pancreas centres with expert surgeons, radiologists and gastroenterologists. Infected or symptomatic pseudocysts should be primarily addressed by endoscopic drainage. In contrast, patients with chronic pain, dilated pancreas duct and opioid use should be considered for early surgical intervention.
CONCLUSION: Chronic pancreatitis is associated with increased morbidity and mortality and often leads to hospital admissions. The clinical management of complex patients with local complications requires an interdisciplinary approach to tailor available therapeutic modalities depending on the stage of the disease and pre-existing comorbidities.

Citation: Ammer-Herrmenau C, et al. [Chronic pancreatitis: update diagnostic and therapeutic concepts]. [Chronic pancreatitis: update diagnostic and therapeutic concepts]. 2022; 60:1131-1138. doi: 10.1055/a-1659-4636

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34798674/
