PMID: 34805756
Title: Aneurysmal celiac trunk dissection caused by median arcuate ligament syndrome successfully treated by endovascular technique: a case report.

Abstract: Median arcuate ligament syndrome (MALS) is a chronic pathogenic process, resulting from the compression of the celiac axis by fibrous attachments of the diaphragmatic crura which named median arcuate ligament. In clinical, isolated spontaneous superior mesenteric artery (SMA) is common. Whereas, isolated celiac trunk (CA) dissection is rare, it is usually associated with aortic dissection. In this case report, the CA is not only dissected, but also the aneurysm formed. Because the long-time compression of the MALS, relative narrowing of the celiac artery causes the high pressure at the beginning of the CA and that may contribute to the aneurysmal celiac trunk dissection (ACTD). This case described a male patient who underwent hypertension and abdominal pain as their main clinical manifestation. Contrast-enhanced computed tomography angiography (CTA) showed that a slightly stenosed root of the celiac artery during inhalation and severe stenosis of the root during expiration. Moreover, a small intimal tear at the site of celiac artery proximal end with nonruptured aneurysmal dilation located on the celiac trunk. After our carefully examinations, the patient was diagnosed as ACTD caused by MALS. And we applied endovascular technique-stenting in this case. It could not only cover the dissection, but also could obstruct the aneurysm. The patient was in a stable condition after management of ACTD by stenting. Stenting is a safe and effective treatment for ACTD caused by MALS.

Citation: Li S, et al. Aneurysmal celiac trunk dissection caused by median arcuate ligament syndrome successfully treated by endovascular technique: a case report. Aneurysmal celiac trunk dissection caused by median arcuate ligament syndrome successfully treated by endovascular technique: a case report. 2021; 5:37. doi: 10.21037/acr-20-123

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34805756/
