PMID: 34804749
Title: Impact of Concomitant Spinal Canal Stenosis on Clinical Presentation of Adult Onset Degenerative Lumbar Spondylolisthesis: A Study Combining Clinical and Imaging Spectrum.

Abstract: Aim Degenerative lumbar spondylolisthesis (DSL) is one of the reasons behind adult-onset backache due to degenerative spinal pathology. Clinical manifestations of this can range from asymptomatic patients to widely variable clinical signs and symptoms. Spinal canal stenosis (SCS) is the most common associated degenerative condition in the MRI of DSL. Moreover, other associated degenerative conditions may contribute significantly towards the clinical presentation. We have tried to assess the impact of SCS on the clinical symptomatology and presentation of the DSL by correlating the clinical and imaging findings. Methods This single-center prospective observational study has analysed 48 patients who were symptomatic due to DSL. The data was collected over a period of 18 months from January 2015 to June 2016 by screening through the adult patients presenting at the orthopaedic or spinal clinics with features suggestive of degenerative lumbar spine disease. Particular inclusion and exclusion criteria were developed as a screening tool and selected patients underwent imaging investigations. Patients had lumbar spine radiographs, both standing and flexion-extension view, and MRI of the lumbar spine. The presenting clinical features were documented. Their clinical and neurological assessment was done thoroughly by two qualified clinicians independently. Results The study population included 29 female (60.5%) and 19 male (39.5%) patients. The mean age of the study population was 49.5 years (SD 9.2 years). As per the radiological diagnostic criteria, 28 patients (58.3%) had features of SCS together with DSL and the rest of the 20 patients (41.7%) had DSL without SCS. Axial back pain and claudication had a statistically significant association with imaging findings. Similarly, patients with associated canal stenosis had statistically significant sensory and motor deficits, altered deep tendon reflexes. Facet joint angle more than 45 degrees at the level of the slip had a higher incidence of indicative presenting symptoms. However, this was not statistically proven. Conclusion DSL is a heterogeneous condition with the simultaneous presence of different degenerative processes in the lumbar spine at various stages. Hence, clinical presentations are widely variable. The concomitant presence of SCS significantly influences the clinical symptomatology with correlation to the MRI findings. Therefore, a judicious weighing of the clinical and imaging findings is crucial for prudent management planning for cases of DSL.

Citation: De C and De C. Impact of Concomitant Spinal Canal Stenosis on Clinical Presentation of Adult Onset Degenerative Lumbar Spondylolisthesis: A Study Combining Clinical and Imaging Spectrum. Impact of Concomitant Spinal Canal Stenosis on Clinical Presentation of Adult Onset Degenerative Lumbar Spondylolisthesis: A Study Combining Clinical and Imaging Spectrum. 2021; 13:e19536. doi: 10.7759/cureus.19536

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34804749/
