PMID: 34801880
Title: Management of neurophysiological monitoring changes during carotid endarterectomy exposure.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Carotid endarterectomy (CEA) is a safe and effective operation in the management of carotid stenosis. Intraoperative neurophysiologic monitoring (IONM) changes during carotid clamping has been well studied, but there is scant evidence detailing IONM changes during carotid exposure.
OBJECTIVE: We analyzed our experience with IONM changes during CEA exposure to determine whether multimodal IONM changes during exposure predict outcomes and how best to manage this challenging clinical scenario.
METHODS: We reviewed all CEAs performed at our medical center between January 2015 and June 2020 and identified patients with multimodal IONM changes during exposure of the carotid artery. Our primary outcomes were perioperative stroke and functional outcomes. Functional outcomes were measured by modified Rankin scale (mRS), with good functional outcome defined at mRS scores 0-3. We also reviewed our intraoperative IONM change management strategies.
RESULTS: Five patients (4 males, 1 female) with an average age of 67 ± 12 years had intraoperative IONM changes during carotid exposure. Among these, three patients were discharged with good functional outcome, and four patients had a good functional outcome at last follow-up. Two patients had perioperative stroke, half of which resulted in significant disability. One patient was transferred to the neuroendovascular suite intraoperatively for evaluation for thromboembolism followed by angioplasty and stenting with distal protection.
CONCLUSION: Intraoperative IONM changes during carotid exposure predict outcomes in CEA. We propose that transition to the neuroendovascular suite following significant IONM changes during carotid exposure may be a useful strategy for management of this challenging clinical scenario. This approach provides the opportunity to evaluate and treat thromboembolism and still complete carotid revascularization when appropriate. This algorithm may be particularly useful in the era of dual trained vascular neurosurgeons.

Citation: Gigliotti MJ, et al. Management of neurophysiological monitoring changes during carotid endarterectomy exposure. Management of neurophysiological monitoring changes during carotid endarterectomy exposure. 2021; 211:107032. doi: 10.1016/j.clineuro.2021.107032

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34801880/
