PMID: 34801735
Title: Bradyarrhythmias detected by extended rhythm recording in patients undergoing transcatheter aortic valve replacement (Brady-TAVR Study).

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Bradyarrhythmias leading to permanent pacemaker (PPM) implantation continue to be a complication after transcatheter aortic valve replacement (TAVR).
OBJECTIVE: The purpose of this study was to assess the prevalence of bradyarrhythmias using an electrocardiographic (ECG) extended rhythm recording in patients pre- and post-TAVR and whether they can predict the need for PPM.
METHODS: This was a prospective single-center study in patients undergoing TAVR. Patients received an ECG patch for 2 weeks pre-, immediately post-, and 2-3 months post-TAVR. Caring physicians were blinded to the results of the patch except when predefined urgent arrhythmias were detected. The main outcome was the need for PPM implantation after TAVR.
RESULTS: We enrolled 110 patients, of whom 96 underwent TAVR and were included in the final analysis. Bradyarrhythmias, defined as a pause of 3 seconds or more, occurred in 5.2%, 12.7%, and 7% of patients pre-, immediately post-, and 2-3 months post-TAVR, respectively. PPM implantation occurred in 12 patients (12.5%), of whom 9 (9.4%) underwent implantation during their index hospitalization while 3 (3.1%) required implantation postdischarge for indications other than heart block. No patients required PPM after receiving an ECG patch 2-3 months post-TAVR. Significant baseline predictors for the need for PPM included the presence of right bundle branch block and increased QRS duration. Bradyarrhythmias detected by the ECG patch did not predict the need for PPM at either the index hospitalization or the follow-up period.
CONCLUSION: Bradyarrhythmias are common and can be detected with extended ECG monitoring before and after TAVR; however, in our study they did not predict the need for PPM after TAVR (ClinicalTrials.gov identifier: NCT03180073).

Citation: Tarakji KG, et al. Bradyarrhythmias detected by extended rhythm recording in patients undergoing transcatheter aortic valve replacement (Brady-TAVR Study). Bradyarrhythmias detected by extended rhythm recording in patients undergoing transcatheter aortic valve replacement (Brady-TAVR Study). 2022; 19:381-388. doi: 10.1016/j.hrthm.2021.11.020

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34801735/
