PMID: 34802437
Title: Flow reserve fraction: the optimal choice in lesion assessing and interventional guiding for patient with unstable angina pectoris and intermediate lesion wrapped with myocardial bridge: a case report.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: It is difficult to choose correctly interventional strategy for coronary intermediate lesions combined with myocardial bridge. Endovascular imaging is advocated to guide treatment, but flow reserve fraction (FFR) is not recommended to guide the interventional treatment of myocardial bridge disease because of the inaccurate judgment misled by myocardial bridge.
CASE PRESENTATION: In this study, we reported a case of a 56-year-old male patient with unstable angina pectoris (UAP). From his coronary angiography, we found diffuse stenosis near the midsection of the left anterior descending (LAD) branch and the presence of a severe myocardial bridge in the lesion area. We were sure that the LAD was culprit vessel and this lesion was culprit lesion. Both FFR and intravenous ultrasound (IVUS) were performed and the conclusions of them are different. Although stent implantation is not usually recommended in the myocardial bridge area. However, after careful examination, a stent was finally implanted under the precise guidance of FFR. And the patient recovered well up-to now.
CONCLUSIONS: This case illustrates that FFR functional test was complimentary to intravascular imaging test for the coronary intermediate lesion, especially the lesion wrapped with myocardial bridges, both in assessing the lesion and in guiding treatment.

Citation: Hu Y, et al. Flow reserve fraction: the optimal choice in lesion assessing and interventional guiding for patient with unstable angina pectoris and intermediate lesion wrapped with myocardial bridge: a case report. Flow reserve fraction: the optimal choice in lesion assessing and interventional guiding for patient with unstable angina pectoris and intermediate lesion wrapped with myocardial bridge: a case report. 2021; 16:336. doi: 10.1186/s13019-021-01720-7

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34802437/
