PMID: 34804458
Title: An Exploratory Study on the Treatment of Obstructive Apnea-Hypopnea Syndrome by Nasal Cavity Expansion.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Respiratory disorder is a disease with a very high incidence, in which obstructive apnea-hypopnea syndrome is the most harmful. It has become a common and frequently occurring disease, which seriously influences the health of the affected population. The pathogenesis of obstructive sleep apnea/hypopnea syndrome (OSAHS) is numerous. With the continuous research on OSAHS disease, it has been found that one of its main pathogeneses is caused by the anatomical characteristics of upper airway obstruction induced during sleep. The narrowing and collapse of any plane can affect the ventilation of the upper respiratory tract. In recent years, with the deepening of research, the importance of the upper respiratory tract obstruction as a source of the disease has attracted increasing attention. Nasal stenosis can cause increased nasal resistance, increased pharyngeal inhalation negative pressure, soft palate collapse, and narrow pharyngeal cavity, resulting in open mouth breathing, which can be the initiating factor of the upper airway obstruction. With the development and popularization of nasal endoscopy technology, domestic and foreign scholars have reported more on the treatment of rhinogenic OSAHS with nasal cavity expansion, but they are different. There is still more controversy; the main controversy centered on the effective rate of surgical treatment and the improvement of objective indicators. Therefore, this study performed individualized nasal cavity expansion for patients with OSAHS who are mainly rhinogenic, from subjective symptoms, objective indicators, and effective rate of surgery. Methods and Patients. Conduct research and analysis to provide references for the clinical treatment of such patients. For patients with the obstructive apnea-hypopnea syndrome with nasal congestion, individualized nasal cavity expansion was performed to study the clinical effect of nasal cavity expansion in the treatment of OSAHS. This article mainly screens cases through big data and selects a large hospital in China to perform individualized nasal cavity expansion surgery to treat 43 adult OSAHS patients with nasal congestion.
RESULTS: There are uploaded sleep monitoring, nasal reflex, nasal resistance, and nasal symptoms before and after surgery.
CONCLUSION: Spirometer examination records, along with apnea-hypopnea index and minimum arterial blood oxygen saturation, the minimum cross-sectional area of the nasal cavity, nasal cavity volume, nasal airway resistance, total nasal respiratory volume, and other information. Also we fill in the nasal obstruction symptom assessment scale, sleepiness scale, and study and analyze the surgical effect of nasal cavity expansion.

Citation: He L and Lin Z. An Exploratory Study on the Treatment of Obstructive Apnea-Hypopnea Syndrome by Nasal Cavity Expansion. An Exploratory Study on the Treatment of Obstructive Apnea-Hypopnea Syndrome by Nasal Cavity Expansion. 2021; 2021:6926509. doi: 10.1155/2021/6926509

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34804458/
