PMID: 34800196
Title: Protective effect of rosuvastatin against the formation of benign esophageal stricture.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Benign esophageal strictures result from caustic or radiation injury or surgical procedures. Statins have anti-inflammatory and anti-fibrotic activities. We examined the role of rosuvastatin in preventing benign esophageal fibrosis and stricture formation in a rabbit model.
METHODS: Twenty-six rabbits were assigned to control and rosuvastatin groups. The rabbits in the rosuvastatin group were administered rosuvastatin 5 mg/day, 2 weeks prior to the esophageal stricture phase. Esophageal strictures were established by applying 4% sodium hydroxide solution to the middle esophagus. Esophagography was performed to evaluate the degree of esophageal stenosis, and histopathologic assessment of esophageal tissue damage was performed with hematoxylin-eosin and Masson staining. The expressions of transforming growth factor-β1 (TGF-β1), connective tissue growth factor (CTGF), and α-smooth muscle actin (α-SMA) were examined by immunohistochemistry.
RESULTS: The incidence of strictures was significantly lower in the rosuvastatin group. Esophagography demonstrated mild stenosis in the narrowest inner esophageal diameter in the rosuvastatin group than in the control group, and Masson staining demonstrated significantly less collagen deposition in the rosuvastatin group. In addition, immunohistochemistry results showed that the expressions of TGF-β1, CTGF, and α-SMA significantly reduced in the rosuvastatin group.
CONCLUSIONS: The present study demonstrated that rosuvastatin prevents benign esophageal stricture formation. This effect may be exerted through the anti-fibrotic activity of rosuvastatin, which may be exerted by the inhibition of CTGF and α-SMA production induced by TGF-β1.

Citation: Zhu B, et al. Protective effect of rosuvastatin against the formation of benign esophageal stricture. Protective effect of rosuvastatin against the formation of benign esophageal stricture. 2022; 19:343-350. doi: 10.1007/s10388-021-00895-1

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34800196/
