PMID: 34805932
Title: Reconstructive treatment of symptomatic vertebral artery dissecting aneurysms with Willis covered stent: Initial experience.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Symptomatic vertebral artery dissecting aneurysm (VADA) is a challenging disease with controversy on treatment strategy due to anatomic configuration and their nature. Moreover, the outcomes of reconstructive treatment have not been well established.
OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the safety and efficacy of reconstructive endovascular treatment (EVT) for symptomatic VADAs with Willis covered stent.
METHODS: We evaluated retrospectively 13 patients with symptomatic VADAs who treated with Willis covered stent, compared with stent-assisted coiling (SAC) on the characteristics, posttreatment course, angiographic and clinical follow-up outcomes at an average of 14.4 months (range, 3-48 months).
RESULTS: A total of 33 patients with symptomatic VADAs were reviewed, 23 of these patients with ruptured VADAs. The technical successful rate is 100% respectively in Willis covered stent (Group A) and SAC (Group B, n ​= ​20). The initial complete occlusion rate was significant higher in group A (100%) than group B (30%) (p ​< ​0.01). Major procedure-related complications were not significant different in the two groups. Serial follow-up angiograms revealed 5 recurrent VADAs in group B and no recurrence in group A (p ​> ​0.05). No obvious in-stent stenosis and no re-hemorrhage and delayed ischemic symptoms during the follow-up period. The final angiograms of all survived patients demonstrated the complete occlusion rate was higher in group A (100%) than group B (80%), but no significant statistical difference (p ​> ​0.05). Clinical outcomes were favorable in 31 (93.9%), severe disability occurred in one in group B, and only one death in group A. The final clinical outcomes were also not significant difference in the two groups (p ​> ​0.05).
CONCLUSIONS: Our initial result demonstrated reconstructive EVT with Willis covered stent provides a viable approach for selected symptomatic VADAs involving the intracranial and extracranial segments, which is similar to favorable results with SAC. However, an expanded clinical experiences and larger cohort studies are needed.

Citation: Gu Y, et al. Reconstructive treatment of symptomatic vertebral artery dissecting aneurysms with Willis covered stent: Initial experience. Reconstructive treatment of symptomatic vertebral artery dissecting aneurysms with Willis covered stent: Initial experience. 2020; 3:184-191. doi: 10.1016/j.jimed.2020.08.003

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34805932/
