PMID: 34816074
Title: Aspirin nonsensitivity in patients with vascular disease: Assessment by light transmission aggregometry (aspirin nonsensitivity in vascular patients).

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Aspirin is a key antiplatelet therapy for the prevention of thrombotic events in patients with cardiovascular disease. Studies suggest that ≈20% of patients with cardiac disease suffer from aspirin nonsensitivity, a phenomenon characterized by the inability of 81 mg aspirin to inhibit platelet aggregation and/or prevent adverse cardiovascular events.
OBJECTIVES: To investigate aspirin nonsensitivity in patients with vascular disease and assess the consequences of aspirin nonsensitivity.
METHODS: One hundred fifty patients presenting to St. Michael's Hospital's outpatient clinics with evidence of vascular disease (peripheral arterial disease or carotid artery stenosis) and a previous prescription of 81 mg of aspirin were recruited in this study. Light transmission aggregometry with arachidonic acid induction was used to determine sensitivity to aspirin. Patients with a maximum aggregation ≥20% in response to arachidonic acid were considered aspirin nonsensitive, as per previous studies.
RESULTS: Of the 150 patients recruited, 36 patients (24%) were nonsensitive to 81 mg of aspirin. Of these 36 nonsensitive patients, 30 patients provided a urine sample for urine salicyluric acid analysis (a major metabolite of aspirin). Urine analysis demonstrated that 14 patients were compliant and 16 were noncompliant with their aspirin therapy. Major adverse cardiovascular events and major adverse limb events were significantly higher in the nonsensitive patients compared to sensitive patients (hazard ratio, 3.68; P &lt; 0.001).
CONCLUSION: These data highlight the high prevalence of aspirin nonsensitivity and noncompliance in patients with vascular disease and emphasizes the urgent need for improved medical management options for this patient population.

Citation: Khan H, et al. Aspirin nonsensitivity in patients with vascular disease: Assessment by light transmission aggregometry (aspirin nonsensitivity in vascular patients). Aspirin nonsensitivity in patients with vascular disease: Assessment by light transmission aggregometry (aspirin nonsensitivity in vascular patients). 2021; 5:e12618. doi: 10.1002/rth2.12618

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34816074/
