PMID: 34820810
Title: [Budd-Chiari syndrome, review and illustration].

Abstract: Budd-Chiari syndrome is a rare vascular disorder characterized by obstruction of the hepatic venous outflow. Various diseases causing coagulopathy play a role in aetiology, such as myeloproliferative disorders. Acute vascular occlusion may lead to acute phlebitis with fever. The classic triad of acute liver failure may be present with ascites, hepatomegaly, and abdominal pain. However, subacute courses of disease were also observed. Because of the variable symptoms and severity extent, depending on the acuity of the course and the extent of the affected vessels, diagnosis is often difficult. Sonography, as a ubiquitously available and cost-effective diagnostic tool, plays a leading role. Doppler ultrasonography can be used to visualize hemodynamics in particular. In acute thrombotic occlusion, the affected hepatic veins usually cannot or only partially be visualized. In non-occluding thrombi, turbulent flow patterns may develop in the area of venous outflow obstruction, and flow velocity is then increased in the area of stenosis. Contrast enhanced ultrasound offers even better specificity of diagnosis. Computed tomography and magnetic resonance imaging can directly visualize thrombi and the cause of obstruction. Once the diagnosis is confirmed, anticoagulation must be initiated, but therapy of the underlying disease must also be started. If symptom-controlling measures are not sufficient, angioplasty/stenting to reopen short-segment stenoses or implantation of a TIPSS device may be considered. Liver transplantation remains ultima ratio. As studies on the precision of diagnostic methods are controversial, the characteristics of imaging for BCS are therefore summarized in this review on the basis of several illustrating case reports.

Citation: Wiest I, et al. [Budd-Chiari syndrome, review and illustration]. [Budd-Chiari syndrome, review and illustration]. 2022; 60:1335-1345. doi: 10.1055/a-1645-2760

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34820810/
