PMID: 34829357
Title: Effect of Roller Pump Pulse in the Arterial Needle Area during Hemodialysis.

Abstract: Vascular access is a lifeline for hemodialysis patients. Its lifetime is affected by many hemodynamic factors such as pressure, flow regime and wall shear stress. During hemodialysis, changes in hemodynamic parameters occur due to the flow from needles inserted into the vascular system. Primarily, there is a change in shear stress that affects the vascular wall. Pathological effects of high or low WSS are known. The effect of jet from a venous needle on hemodynamics parameters was studied, but the influence of the arterial needle on hemodynamics parameters is not sufficiently studied. To understand its possible effects, we performed in vivo and in vitro studies. Methods. In vivo experiment: The existence of flow reversal around the suction needle was visualized in a group of 12 randomly selected patients using ultrasound velocity profiling (Doppler ultrasonography) during hemodialysis. In vitro experiment: The flow field was measured using the stereo particle image velocimetry method (stereo PIV). Two regimes were studied. In the first regime, the fluid in the extracorporeal circuit was pumped by a peristaltic pump. In the second regime, the continuous pump was used in the extracorporeal circuit. The conditions were set to resemble those in vascular access during a hemodialysis session. Flow volume was set to 600 mL/min for vascular access and 200 mL/min for the extracorporeal circuit. Results. The main finding of this study was that the wall in the region of the arterial needle was stressed by backflow through the arterial needle. Since this was a variable, low-shear stress loading, it was one of the risk factors for the development of stenosis. Cyclic flow reversal was apparent in all of the included hemodialysis patients. The stereo PIV in vitro experiment revealed the oscillating character of wall shear stress (WSS) inside the model. High shear stress was documented upstream of the injection point of the arterial needle. An area of very low WSS was detected right behind the injection point during a pulse of the peristaltic pump. The minimal and maximal values of the WSS during a pulse of the peristaltic pump in the observed area were -0.7 Pa and 6 Pa, respectively. The distribution of wall shear stress with the continual pump used in the extracorporeal circuit was similar to the distribution during a pulse of the peristaltic one. However, the WSS values were continual; the WSS did not oscillate. WSS ranged between 4.8 Pa and 1.0 Pa.

Citation: Kasparek M, et al. Effect of Roller Pump Pulse in the Arterial Needle Area during Hemodialysis. Effect of Roller Pump Pulse in the Arterial Needle Area during Hemodialysis. 2021; 11:(unknown pages). doi: 10.3390/diagnostics11112010

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34829357/
