PMID: 34839837
Title: Long-term follow-up of subvalvular aortic stenosis in children: a single-centre experience.

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: The aim of this study is to evaluate clinical and surgical outcomes of children with subaortic stenosis, to determine the risk factors for surgery and reoperation and to compare isolated subaortic stenosis and those concomitant with CHDs.
METHODS: The study involved 80 children with subaortic stenosis. The patients were first classified as isolated and CHD group, and the isolated group was further classified as membranous/fibromuscular group. The initial, pre-operative, post-operative and the most recent echocardiographic data, demographic properties and follow-up results of the groups were analysed and compared. The correlation of echocardiographic parameters with surgery and reoperation was evaluated.
RESULTS: There was a significant male predominance in all groups. The frequency of the membranous type was higher than the fibromuscular type in the whole and the CHD group. The median time to the first operation was 4.6 years. Thirty-five (43.7%) patients underwent surgery, 5 of 35 (14%) patients required reoperation. The rate of surgery was similar between groups, but reoperation was significantly higher in the isolated group. The gradient was the most important factor for surgery and reoperation in both groups. In the isolated group besides gradient, mitral-aortic separation was the only echocardiographic parameter correlated with surgery and reoperation.
CONCLUSION: Reoperation is higher in isolated subaortic stenosis but similar in membranous and fibromuscular types. Early surgery may be beneficial in preventing aortic insufficiency but does not affect the rate of reoperation. Higher initial gradients are associated with adverse outcomes, recurrence and reoperation.

Citation: Ramoğlu MG, et al. Long-term follow-up of subvalvular aortic stenosis in children: a single-centre experience. Long-term follow-up of subvalvular aortic stenosis in children: a single-centre experience. 2022; 32:980-987. doi: 10.1017/S1047951121004686

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34839837/
