PMID: 34838327
Title: Synchronous airway lesions in children with severe, progressive and atypical laryngomalacia - Experience of a UK tertiary referral centre.

Abstract: OBJECTIVES: Laryngomalacia is the commonest cause of stridor in the paediatric population. Whilst usually self-limiting, studies have suggested that the presence of synchronous airway lesions (SALs) might be associated with more severe clinical presentation and additional morbidity. However, evidence in the literature is scarce, contributing to controversy regarding the appropriate investigation and management of children with laryngomalacia. The aim of this study was to explore the prevalence, clinical significance and risk factors of SALs in children with severe, progressive and atypical laryngomalacia symptoms.
METHODS: Retrospective analysis of the records of all paediatric patients diagnosed with laryngomalacia in a UK tertiary referral centre, over a 2-year period, was undertaken. Data on demographics, comorbidities, management and presence of SALs were collected.
RESULTS: The study included 130 patients with laryngomalacia. Seventy-eight patients required investigation with microlaryngobronchoscopy (MLB), based on clinical presentation. SALs were identified in 22 patients (28.2%), 6 of which (7.7%) required surgical intervention. The commonest airway lesions included tracheomalacia, bronchomalacia and subglottic stenosis. A correlation between the presence of neurodevelopmental conditions in children and SALs was noted (p value < 0.05). The presence of SALs was not associated with sex, gestational age at birth or other medical comorbidities.
CONCLUSION: The results of this study allow professionals to counsel families about the utility of MLB in children with severe, progressive and atypical laryngomalacia symptoms and inform management pathways for clinicians not working in airway centres. We support the clinical practice that progressive, atypical or severe laryngomalacia symptoms should prompt consideration of an MLB, to identify potential synchronous airway lesions. Furthermore, we propose that a higher index of suspicion and more thorough investigation might be indicated in children with neurodevelopmental disorders.

Citation: Glibbery N, et al. Synchronous airway lesions in children with severe, progressive and atypical laryngomalacia - Experience of a UK tertiary referral centre. Synchronous airway lesions in children with severe, progressive and atypical laryngomalacia - Experience of a UK tertiary referral centre. 2022; 152:110984. doi: 10.1016/j.ijporl.2021.110984

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34838327/
