PMID: 34844585
Title: Alimentary tract obstruction attributed to use of barbed suture for double tract reconstruction after robot-assisted proximal gastrectomy: a case report.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Anastomotic stenosis following esophagojejunostomy reconstruction by the overlap method with absorbable barbed sutures occurs only rarely in patients who have undergone laparoscopic surgery. We report anastomotic stenosis by the overlap method that we attributed to the lack of tactile sensation during robot-assisted surgery.
CASE PRESENTATION: An 83-year-old man underwent robot-assisted laparoscopic proximal gastrectomy and lymph node dissection at our hospital for treatment of gastric cancer. Double tract reconstruction followed with side-to-side esophagojejunostomy (overlap method) performed with an endoscopic linear stapler. On completion of the anastomosis, the enterotomy was closed under robotic assistance with absorbable barbed suture. Once solid foods were introduced, the patient had difficulty swallowing and felt as though his digestive tract was stopped up. When upper gastrointestinal endoscopy was performed, we found the anastomotic lumen to be coated with food residue. After rinsing off the residue with water, we could see barbed suture protruding into the anastomotic lumen that had become entangled upon itself, which explained how the food residue had accumulated. We cut the entangled suture under endoscopic visualization using a loop cutter.
CONCLUSION: This case highlights a stricture caused by insufficiently tensioning barbed suture, which subsequently protruded into the anastomotic lumen and became entangled upon itself. We believe this occurrence was associated with the lack of tactile sensation in robot-assisted surgery.

Citation: Fujimoto D, et al. Alimentary tract obstruction attributed to use of barbed suture for double tract reconstruction after robot-assisted proximal gastrectomy: a case report. Alimentary tract obstruction attributed to use of barbed suture for double tract reconstruction after robot-assisted proximal gastrectomy: a case report. 2021; 21:406. doi: 10.1186/s12893-021-01407-9

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34844585/
