PMID: 34842576
Title: Balloon-Assisted Angioplasty for the Treatment of In-Stent Restenosis After Vertebral Artery Ostium Stenting: Experiences From One Single Center.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Stenting appears to be a safe means of treatment for vertebral artery ostium stenosis with low complication rates and positive long-term effects, but the incidence of in-stent restenosis (ISR) after stenting is high. Different treatment strategies are applied for the revascularization of ISR; however, currently the optional approach is not recommended. The study was designed to investigate the feasibility, safety, and effectiveness of balloon-assisted angioplasty for the treatment of ISR after vertebral artery ostium stenosis.
METHODS: In this study, we included patients from the Department of Neurology, Lishui Hospital of Zhejiang University, who were treated with balloon-assisted angioplasty as a result of suffering from ISR after previously undergoing vertebral artery ostium stenting. We retrospectively analyzed the clinical and functional outcomes of the patients.
RESULTS: From January 2015 to December 2019, 11 patients were included in the study. The technical success rate reached 100% and the average operation time was 73 minutes. The Thrombolysis in Cerebral Infarction Score 2b-3 was acquired in all patients except 1 patient, who was presented with symptoms of hypoperfusion syndrome. The remaining 10 patients did not experience any intraoperative or postoperative complications. No restenosis, new cerebral infarction or transient ischemic attack were reported within 6 months of follow-up.
CONCLUSION: Balloon-assisted angioplasty could be feasible for the treatment of ISR after vertebral artery ostium stenting, however, more research is needed to confirm this.

Citation: Cai X, et al. Balloon-Assisted Angioplasty for the Treatment of In-Stent Restenosis After Vertebral Artery Ostium Stenting: Experiences From One Single Center. Balloon-Assisted Angioplasty for the Treatment of In-Stent Restenosis After Vertebral Artery Ostium Stenting: Experiences From One Single Center. 2022; 27:106-110. doi: 10.1097/NRL.0000000000000383

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34842576/
