PMID: 34845128
Title: Patch venoplasty for resecting tumor invading the retrohepatic inferior vena cava using total and selective hepatic vascular exclusion.

Abstract: Large hepatic tumors can invade the retrohepatic inferior vena cava (IVC). Resecting the involved IVC wall is necessary to achieve complete tumor resection. We present detailed surgical procedures of IVC resection and patch venoplasty under the standard and modified total hepatic vascular exclusion (THVE) techniques applied to two patients who underwent aggressive surgery for hepatic tumors. The first case was a 55-year-old male with advanced intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma. The extent of resection was extended right hepatectomy with caudate lobe resection, right adrenalectomy, and portal vein segmental resection-anastomosis. The invasion site at the IVC was excised and repaired with an expanded polytetrafluoroethylene patch under modified THVE. This patient recovered uneventfully. At postoperative 10 months, second primary cancer occurred in the duodenum. The patient underwent pancreaticoduodenectomy but passed away at post-surgery 6 weeks due to pneumonia-associated sepsis. The second case was a 35-year-old female with giant cavernous hemangioma. As separating the right liver from the IVC was infeasible through conventional dissection techniques, standard THVE was performed. The short hepatic vein was too large to repair directly without risk of IVC stenosis. Thus, a cryopreserve iliac vein allograft patch was applied to repair the defect. The patient recovered uneventfully from the operation. The patient is currently doing well for 6 years. However, progressive hemangiomatosis occurred. In conclusion, standard and modified THVE techniques are proposed as useful techniques to achieve complete tumor resection in patients with large liver tumors invading the retrohepatic IVC.

Citation: Kim SM, et al. Patch venoplasty for resecting tumor invading the retrohepatic inferior vena cava using total and selective hepatic vascular exclusion. Patch venoplasty for resecting tumor invading the retrohepatic inferior vena cava using total and selective hepatic vascular exclusion. 2021; 25:536-543. doi: 10.14701/ahbps.2021.25.4.536

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34845128/
