PMID: 34840753
Title: Anaesthetic challenges in a morbidly obese man for cardiac myxoma resection: A case report.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Cardiac myxoma is a rare neoplasm with female preponderance. It is the commonest benign cardiac neoplasm. We report a case entailing the perioperative anaesthetic challenges in managing a young morbidly obese man with a huge left atrial myxoma, who presented to us with acute symptoms of heart failure.
CASE PRESENTATION: A young morbidly obese man with a body mass index (BMI) of 43.3 kg/m2 presented to us with acute symptoms of heart failure. An urgent transthoracic echocardiogram showed a huge pedunculated mass which arise from the left atrium, which occasionally completely occludes the mitral valve during each diastole. He underwent a resection of cardiac myxoma, which was complicated with intraoperative hypotension. Fortunately, it was successfully managed by placing the patient in Trendelenburg position for optimum blood pressure control.
DISCUSSION: Tumours of the heart are very rare. Common histopathological findings are myxomas, followed by uncommon types of rhabdomyosarcomas and angiosarcomas. Pedunculated cardiac tumours can cause partial to complete obstructions which may lead to devastating conditions. Anaesthesia for morbidly obese patients with pedunculated cardiac myxoma are extremely challenging. Cardiac anaesthetists should be vigilant in managing these patients as they posed many life-threatening complications.
CONCLUSION: Cardiac myxoma are uncommon benign tumor of the heart with higher preponderances on the left atrium. Pedunculated mass can cause obstruction by limiting left ventricular filling, mimicking severe mitral stenosis. Positioning the patient Trendelenburg can transiently reduce intracardiac obstruction, improve cardiac output and venous return to the heart. Optimum patient positioning and management will lead to excellent outcomes.

Citation: Chua CC, et al. Anaesthetic challenges in a morbidly obese man for cardiac myxoma resection: A case report. Anaesthetic challenges in a morbidly obese man for cardiac myxoma resection: A case report. 2021; 71:102998. doi: 10.1016/j.amsu.2021.102998

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34840753/
