PMID: 34849664
Title: Paediatric Ulcerative Colitis Is a Fibrotic Disease and Is Linked with Chronicity of Inflammation.

Abstract: BACKGROUND AND AIMS: Intestinal fibrosis has recently been characterised in adult ulcerative colitis and may affect motility, diarrhoea, and the symptom of urgency. We aimed to charactersze the presence of fibrosis in paediatric patients with ulcerative colitis, and its link to severity and chronicity of mucosal inflammation, as well as clinical factors of severity.
METHODS: We performed a single-centre cross-sectional study in children ages 1-18 years with ulcerative colitis, undergoing colectomy or proctocolectomy. Tissue cross-sections were derived from proximal, mid, and distal colon and rectum, and inflammation and fibrosis were graded based on previously developed scores. Clinical data were collected prospectively.
RESULTS: From 62 patients, 205 intestinal sections were evaluated. Median age at diagnosis was 13 years, 100% had extensive colitis, and all resections were done for refractory disease. The presence, chronicity, and degree of inflammation were linked with the presence of fibrosis. Thickness of the muscularis mucosa was also linked with presence and chronicity of inflammation. The overall submucosal fibrosis burden was associated with prior anti-tumour necrosis factor use.
CONCLUSIONS: Paediatric patients with ulcerative colitis exhibit colorectal submucosal fibrosis and muscularis mucosa thickening, which correlate with the presence, chronicity, and degree of mucosal inflammation. Fibrosis should be recognised as a complication of paediatric ulcerative colitis, and ulcerative colitis should be considered a progressive disease.

Citation: Gordon IO, et al. Paediatric Ulcerative Colitis Is a Fibrotic Disease and Is Linked with Chronicity of Inflammation. Paediatric Ulcerative Colitis Is a Fibrotic Disease and Is Linked with Chronicity of Inflammation. 2022; 16:804-821. doi: 10.1093/ecco-jcc/jjab216

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34849664/
