PMID: 34844877
Title: An study on the influence of collagen fiber directions in TAVs performance using FEM.

Abstract: Transcatheter Aortic Valve Implantation (TAVI) or Replacement (TAVR) is a promising treatment for aortic valve stenosis, consisting of a procedure to replace a damaged native aortic valve by a bioprosthetic one. This replacement valve control the flow of blood using leaflets that are similar to the ones of a native aortic valve. Commonly manufactured using bovine or porcine pericardium, it is a tissue histologically composed of collagen fibers embedded into a nearly-isotropic matrix, where their distribution makes the pericardium behave as an anisotropic hyperelastic material. Because of such complicated behavior, bioprosthetic pericardium valves are, as expected, sensitive to the distribution and orientation of these fibers in such device. Therefore, the objective of this work is a thorough systematic study on the influence of these fibers' distribution. First, a Finite Element model of a bioprosthetic valve is generated; then, a material routine to accurately describe the behavior of pericardium is implemented in a commercial software package; in addition, a dedicated algorithm to specify the direction of fibers is developed. Finally, a systematic study on the influence that fiber orientations have on the overall behavior of the TAV is performed. As a result of this study, two extreme behaviors are highlighted depending on the preferential orientation of collagen fibers; namely, one with fibers in circumferential direction and the opposite with fibers in an axial orientation. Then, it is concluded that the behavior of fibers in circumferential direction is very sensitive to small variations of the orientation angle, whereas such orientation is not as determining when the aim is to achieve a behavior near to the one corresponding with axial orientation.

Citation: Suárez S, et al. An study on the influence of collagen fiber directions in TAVs performance using FEM. An study on the influence of collagen fiber directions in TAVs performance using FEM. 2022; 126:104969. doi: 10.1016/j.jmbbm.2021.104969

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34844877/
