PMID: 34859374
Title: Acute plastic bronchitis after Ross procedure treated with veno-venous extracorporeal membrane oxygenation.

Abstract: PURPOSE: Plastic bronchitis is a rare condition characterized by the formation of airway casts occluding the lower respiratory tract. It is described more commonly in children, especially following correction of congenital heart disease. It involves lymphatic abnormalities leading to endobronchial lymph precipitating airway cast formation. When it presents acutely, it can lead to acute airway obstruction, which can be life-threatening. Plastic bronchitis has been rarely described in adults and is potentially underdiagnosed. The purpose of this case report is to emphasize, for the adult anesthesiologist and adult critical care physician, the importance of prompt diagnosis and respiratory support in a case of plastic bronchitis.
CLINICAL FEATURES: A 40-yr-old female with severe aortic stenosis underwent a Ross procedure. The surgery was uneventful, but within two hours of arrival in the intensive care unit, the patient developed severe hypoxemia. Despite attempts to optimize her respiratory status, the patient remained severely hypoxemic, and veno-venous extracorporeal membrane oxygenation (ECMO) was initiated using a percutaneous femoro-femoral cannulation. A bronchoscopy showed bronchial secretions casting the proximal bronchus, suggestive of plastic bronchitis. After numerous bronchoscopies, we were able to clean the airways and wean the ECMO support on postoperative day 3.
CONCLUSION: Plastic bronchitis can present in adult patients and be life-threatening when associated with acute respiratory failure. We report an unusual case of an adult patient treated with veno-venous ECMO for plastic bronchitis following cardiac surgery. Use of ECMO support while providing airway cleaning can be lifesaving in patients with respiratory failure secondary to plastic bronchitis.

Citation: St-Arnaud C, et al. Acute plastic bronchitis after Ross procedure treated with veno-venous extracorporeal membrane oxygenation. Acute plastic bronchitis after Ross procedure treated with veno-venous extracorporeal membrane oxygenation. 2022; 69:265-268. doi: 10.1007/s12630-021-02148-2

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34859374/
