PMID: 34858754
Title: Endoscopic Spinal Decompression: A Retrospective Review of Pain Outcomes at an Academic Medical Center.

Abstract: INTRODUCTION:  Spinal stenosis is a chronic, debilitating condition that is expected to affect an increasing number of people as the population ages. Symptomatic spinal stenosis, like other spine pathologies, including disc herniation and degenerative disc disease, traditionally required an open decompressive surgical approach if more conservative approaches failed. An emerging alternative has been developed to address the needs of this population of patients in the form of endoscopic spine surgery (ESS). Advantages of ESS include minimal tissue trauma, decreased risk of damage to the neurovascular structures, minimal epidural fibrosis/scarring, reduced hospital stay, early functional recovery, and improved cosmetic outcomes. The purpose of this study was to review the outcomes of patients undergoing transforaminal endoscopic spinal decompression at an academic pain program.
METHODS: We conducted a retrospective review of electronic medical records with approval from the University of Florida Institutional Review Board (IRB #202001529). Twenty patients underwent successful transforaminal endoscopic lumbar spinal decompression surgery at UF Health Pain Medicine from July 1, 2019, to June 1, 2020. The majority of cases were performed at L4-5 (n = 14), followed by an equal number (n = 3) of cases at L3-4 and L5-S1. Preoperative and postoperative visual analog scale (VAS) pain scores from patients' pain clinic appointments were obtained from the electronic health records system to assess the intervention as a pain relief strategy.
RESULTS:  Patients had an average pain reduction of 82% (SD = 31%), resulting in an average postoperative pain score of 1.8 (SD = 2.8) on a 10-point VAS.
CONCLUSION:  This study highlights the benefits of endoscopic spine surgery for patients, including pain reduction and reduced scarring.

Citation: Panjeton GD, et al. Endoscopic Spinal Decompression: A Retrospective Review of Pain Outcomes at an Academic Medical Center. Endoscopic Spinal Decompression: A Retrospective Review of Pain Outcomes at an Academic Medical Center. 2021; 13:e19112. doi: 10.7759/cureus.19112

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34858754/
