PMID: 34851316
Title: [Renal allograft transplant vascular complications. Diagnostic and treatment.].

Abstract: Vascular complications remain common after renal transplantation, occurring in 3% to 15% of patients. These complications can compromise graft function,with graft loss rates ranging from 12.6 to 66.7%.Vascular abnormalities of the graft, specifically the presence of multiple vessels, represent the most frequently studied risk factor for the development of vascular complications. Other risk factors identified for the development of vascular complications are linked to the characteristics of the recipient, or thromboembolic diseasesharing atherosclerosis and/or hypercoagulant state aspathogenic features.Although the most frequent vascular complication is renal artery stenosis, we will also address the complications according to their early or late on set in order to highlightthe potentially more severe complications that may affectgraft survival during the follow-up period.Early vascular complications include mainly arterial and venous thrombosis and lacerations or disruptions of artery and/or vein, as well as arterio-venous fistulas or intrarenal pseudoaneurysms. In contrast, late-onset complications include stenosis or kinking of the renal artery-and less commonly of the renal vein-, as well as extrinsic compression as a consequence of the presence of perigraft fluid collections. Finally, extrarenal pseudoaneurysm is a potentially severe complication in the late post-transplant period.Finally, this article explores special transplant situations such as complications derived from the paediatric donor in adult recipients, transplantation in the paediatric recipient and emerging techniques like robotic renal transplantation.

Citation: Gómez Dos Santos V, et al. [Renal allograft transplant vascular complications. Diagnostic and treatment.]. [Renal allograft transplant vascular complications. Diagnostic and treatment.]. 2021; 74:1013-1028.

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34851316/
