PMID: 34863460
Title: Postprandial cerebral infarction.

Abstract: Some neurological diseases are accompanied by autonomic dysfunction. Postprandial hypotension (PPH) is one disorder accompanied by autonomic dysfunction. Although the major symptoms of PPH are fall and syncope, PPH is sometimes overlooked because of its non-specific symptoms, such as dizziness, nausea, and light-headedness. Because PPH could result in decreased cerebral perfusion pressure accompanied by a decrease in blood pressure, PPH may be linked to the risk of hemodynamic stroke or transient ischemic events, especially in patients with chronic cerebral large vessel occlusion/stenosis. Whether chronic cerebral large vessel occlusion or stenosis causes symptomatic ischemic events depends on the patient's compensatory collateral circulation and cerebral vasoreactivity. Therefore, we hypothesized that cerebral blood flow assessment could be essential for stratifying patients at high risk of postprandial cerebral infarction. However, there have been few reports on the association between cerebral blood flow and the occurrence of postprandial cerebral infarction. In a literature review, we identified seven cases of postprandial cerebral infarction. Postprandial cerebral infarction occurs in patients with chronic cerebral large vessel occlusion/stenosis accompanied by cerebral blood flow reduction. Non-pharmacotherapeutic and pharmacotherapeutic approaches could improve postprandial cerebral infarction; however, one patient with poor compensatory collateral circulation and reduced cerebral vasoreactivity experienced recurrent symptomatic episodes even with sufficient medical treatment and needed extracranial-intracranial bypass surgery. Physicians should be aware of PPH as it can complicate neurological disorders. Long-term blood pressure monitoring for the detection of PPH and cerebral blood flow assessment is needed in patients with cerebral large vessel occlusion/stenosis to prevent postprandial cerebral infarction.

Citation: Ikenouchi H, et al. Postprandial cerebral infarction. Postprandial cerebral infarction. 2021; 94:38-40. doi: 10.1016/j.jocn.2021.09.034

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34863460/
