PMID: 34865967
Title: Height is Inversely Associated with Biomarkers of Intracranial Atherosclerotic Disease in Older Adults of Amerindian Ancestry: Exploring the Obesity Paradox.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Various anthropometric measurements have been inversely associated with atherosclerosis, giving rise to the concept of an "obesity paradox" However, inconsistent study results make it difficult to determine the best anthropometric measurement with which to assess such inverse relationship. Height has been inversely associated with atherosclerosis and it is unlikely to be associated with unexpected biases. In this study, we aimed to assess the association between height and other anthropometric measurements and intracranial atherosclerotic disease (ICAD).
METHODS: Community-dwelling older adults enrolled in the Three Villages Study received anthropometric measurements, high-resolution head CT (to evaluate calcium content in carotid siphons) and time-of-flight MRA (to assess stenosis of large intracranial arteries). Logistic regression models were fitted to assess the independent association between each anthropometric measurements and the presence of ICAD, after adjusting for relevant confounders. Estimated adjusted proportions were used to show how increases of different anthropometric measurements impacted ICAD log odds and corresponding odds ratios.
RESULTS: A total of 581 individuals were enrolled. Height was the single variable inversely associated with ICAD at the mean of other anthropometric measurements (OR: 0.954; 95% C.I.: 0.918 - 0.991; p=0.016). Every additional cm of height reduced by 4.6% the probability of having ICAD. The significance of other anthropometric measurements vanished in multivariate models with height as an independent variable.
CONCLUSIONS: This study demonstrates a robust inverse association between height and ICAD in Amerindians and opens new avenues of research for a better understanding of the obesity paradox in diverse ethnic groups.

Citation: Del Brutto OH, et al. Height is Inversely Associated with Biomarkers of Intracranial Atherosclerotic Disease in Older Adults of Amerindian Ancestry: Exploring the Obesity Paradox. Height is Inversely Associated with Biomarkers of Intracranial Atherosclerotic Disease in Older Adults of Amerindian Ancestry: Exploring the Obesity Paradox. 2022; 31:106200. doi: 10.1016/j.jstrokecerebrovasdis.2021.106200

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34865967/
