PMID: 34878131
Title: Management of mitral stenosis: a systematic review of clinical practice guidelines and recommendations.

Abstract: A number of guidelines exist with recommendations for diagnosis and management of mitral stenosis (MS). We systematically reviewed existing guidelines for diagnosis and management of MS, highlighting their similarities and differences, in order to guide clinical decision-making. We searched national and international guidelines in MEDLINE and EMBASE (5/4/2011-5/9/2021), the Guidelines International Network, Guideline Library, National Guideline Clearinghouse, National Library for Health Guidelines Finder, Canadian Medical Association Clinical Practice Guidelines Infobase, and websites of relevant organizations. Two independent reviewers screened titles and abstracts, and the full text of potentially relevant articles where needed. Selected guidelines were assessed for rigor of development; only guidelines with Appraisal of Guidelines for Research and Evaluation II instrument score &gt;50% were included in the final analysis. Four guidelines were retained for analysis. There was consensus for percutaneous mitral balloon commissurotomy as first-line treatment of symptomatic severe rheumatic MS with suitable anatomy. In patients with unfavourable anatomy, surgical intervention should be considered. Exercise testing is indicated if discrepancy exists between symptoms and echocardiographic measurements. There was no clear divide between rheumatic MS and degenerative MS for their respective diagnoses and management. Pregnancy in severe MS is discouraged and the stenosis should be treated before conception. Long-term antibiotic prophylaxis is recommended for patients with rheumatic MS. Recommendations for the management of patients with mixed valvular diseases are lacking.

Citation: Galusko V, et al. Management of mitral stenosis: a systematic review of clinical practice guidelines and recommendations. Management of mitral stenosis: a systematic review of clinical practice guidelines and recommendations. 2022; 8:602-618. doi: 10.1093/ehjqcco/qcab083

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34878131/
