PMID: 34872849
Title: Intravascular Lithotripsy in Calcified Subclavian and Innominate Peripheral Artery Disease: A Single-Centre Experience.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Intravascular lithotripsy (IVL) is a novel tool for the treatment of calcified vascular stenosis. Recently, IVL has been successfully used for modification of calcified plaque in coronary and lower extremity peripheral arteries with promising results. However, experience in subclavian and innominate peripheral arterial disease is limited. This study aims to report our initial experience of IVL use in calcified subclavian and innominate vasculature.
METHODS: This was a retrospective review of all the cases of IVL performed in subclavian and innominate arteries at the Miriam Hospital, Providence, between January 2019 and May 2020. Data on the baseline and procedural characteristics were collected. The primary endpoint was procedural success defined as residual stenosis of <20% after stenting. Other endpoints of interest were; 1) procedural complications, including dissections, perforations, abrupt closure, slow or no-reflow, thrombosis, and distal embolization; 2) in-hospital major adverse cardiac events (MACE) defined as a composite of death, myocardial infarction, or stroke/transient ischemic attack.
RESULTS: A total of 7 patients with 13 lesions undergoing IVL were included. Of these, 5 (71%) were women, the mean age was 74.6 ± 12.9, and the mean BMI was 25.1 ± 6.7. IVL was successfully delivered to all the target lesions with a mean 252.9 ± 54.4 pulses delivered per patient. Procedural success was achieved in 100% of the treated lesions. No procedure-related complications or in-hospital MACE occurred in any of the patients.
CONCLUSIONS: In this single-center retrospective analysis, IVL facilitated acute procedural success without any procedural complications in severely calcified stenoses of the subclavian and innominate vasculature. Larger studies with an active comparator and longer follow-up are needed to establish the relative efficacy and safety of IVL use in this vascular bed.

Citation: Khan MS, et al. Intravascular Lithotripsy in Calcified Subclavian and Innominate Peripheral Artery Disease: A Single-Centre Experience. Intravascular Lithotripsy in Calcified Subclavian and Innominate Peripheral Artery Disease: A Single-Centre Experience. 2022; 40:37-41. doi: 10.1016/j.carrev.2021.11.029

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34872849/
