PMID: 34876979
Title: Spontaneous spinal epidural hematoma in a patient on acenocoumarol for valvular atrial fibrillation: A rare case report.

Abstract: INTRODUCTION: Spontaneous spinal epidural hematoma (SSEH) is a rare finding, but one with serious clinical implications. Oral anticoagulant drugs are known to be associated with the SSEH onset, particularly when combined with drugs increasing the bleeding risk.
CASE PRESENTATION: We present the case of a 62-year-old female on acencoumarol for her atrial fibrillation complicating severe mitral stenosis with a history of Ketoprofen use for the onset of her first symptoms. She presented to our emergency room with paraplegia and sphincter disturbance. Spinal magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) revealed a posterior SSEH extended from T10 to T12 requiring an urgent decompression of the spinal cord by laminectomy performed within 48 hours from the symptom's onset. After 3 months of rehabilitation, the patient improves partially her muscular strength with mostly unchanged sensitive and sphincteric levels.
CLINICAL DISCUSSION: Vitamin K antagonists (VKA) use appears to be a high suspicion index for SSEH diagnosis resulting in earlier surgery and improving neurological outcome. Also, it is important to pay attention to the concomitant use of VKA and non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs which increase the risk of bleeding and may worsen the neurological outcome.
CONCLUSION: SSEH is a rare and serious finding which should be especially searched when a history of oral anticoagulation is reported in presence of neurological symptoms. A prompt and suitable management may improve the patient outcomes.

Citation: El-Azrak M, et al. Spontaneous spinal epidural hematoma in a patient on acenocoumarol for valvular atrial fibrillation: A rare case report. Spontaneous spinal epidural hematoma in a patient on acenocoumarol for valvular atrial fibrillation: A rare case report. 2021; 72:103076. doi: 10.1016/j.amsu.2021.103076

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34876979/
