PMID: 34876165
Title: Relations of physical signs to genotype, lipid and inflammatory markers, coronary stenosis or calcification, and outcomes in patients with heterozygous familial hypercholesterolemia.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Although the presence of physical signs [tendon xanthomas and/or corneal arcus (TX/CA)], are associated with the risk of coronary artery disease in patients with heterozygous familial hypercholesterolemia (HeFH), their relationship with genotypes and clinical characteristics has not been fully determined. This study aimed to examine the association of TX/CA with genetic mutation, lipid- and inflammation-related markers, the severity of coronary stenosis or calcification, and cardiovascular events (CVEs) in patients with HeFH.
METHODS: LDLR, APOB, and PCSK9 genes were screened in 523 HeFH patients, and patients with TX/CA (n = 50) were 1:4 propensity score-matched to patients without TX/CA (n = 200) to adjust for age and sex. Laboratory markers (proprotein convertase subtilisin/kexin type 9 [PCSK9], lipoprotein(a) and high-sensitivity C-reactive protein [hsCRP]), computed tomography angiography, coronary angiography, and follow-up for CVEs were performed.
RESULTS: Patients with physical signs had significantly higher low-density lipoprotein cholesterol levels; higher PCSK9 or hsCRP concentrations; more LDLR positive mutations; and higher prevalence of high tertiles of Gensini, SYNTAX and Jeopardy scores as well as coronary artery calcium scores than did those without. Over an average follow-up of 3.7 years, the incidence of CVEs was significantly higher in patients with TX/CA (log-rank p < 0.001). Patients with physical signs and mutation positivity had threefold higher risks of CVEs (adjusted hazard ratio 3.34, 95% confidence interval 1.04-10.72, p = 0.024).
CONCLUSIONS: Physical signs were associated with genotypes and phenotypes, and worse outcomes in patients with HeFH, suggesting that these signs may help in risk stratification in these patients.

Citation: Liu MM, et al. Relations of physical signs to genotype, lipid and inflammatory markers, coronary stenosis or calcification, and outcomes in patients with heterozygous familial hypercholesterolemia. Relations of physical signs to genotype, lipid and inflammatory markers, coronary stenosis or calcification, and outcomes in patients with heterozygous familial hypercholesterolemia. 2021; 19:498. doi: 10.1186/s12967-021-03166-w

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34876165/
