PMID: 34870914
Title: [Diagnosis and treatment of low back pain in old patients].

Abstract: The back pain is one of the most common and socially significant neurological syndromes, leading to limited mobility and household independence of elderly patients. Specific «serious» causes of back pain account for 1-2% of all cases of back pain, approximately 10% of cases of pain correspond to radiculopathy, while the rest of the most common variants is related to nonspecific axial back pain. In the most cases of back pain, a clear connection between degenerative-dystrophic changes in the spine and the clinical manifestations and intensity of back pain is absent. On the other hand, dystrophic changes in the spine, which under certain conditions can be a source of chronic pain, cannot be completely ignored. Therefore, «osteochondrosis» is currently considered as a heterogeneous cascade process with the different course variations. In practice, it is not always possible to draw a line between nociceptive, neuropathic, nociplastic and psychogenic pain, more often in this case we can talk about a mixed nature of pain. Unreasonable neuroimaging with the identification of «accidental» findings can complicate the interpretation of the causes of pain, however, it is absolutely indicated to exclude serious specific diseases, spinal stenosis, when determining the indications for surgery. The presence of comorbid affective disorders, certain personality characteristics of patients contributes to the persistent nature of low back pain, therefore it is important to take these factors into account when diagnosing the causes and treatment of pain. Along with conventional anti-inflammatory drugs and other analgesics with a proven effect in the complex treatment of patients with degenerative-dystrophic changes in the spine with radicular and non-root pain syndromes, Symptomatic Slow-Acting Drugs in Osteoarthritis can be recommended.

Citation: Skripkina NA and Levin OS. [Diagnosis and treatment of low back pain in old patients]. [Diagnosis and treatment of low back pain in old patients]. 2021; 121:52-57. doi: 10.17116/jnevro202112110252

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34870914/
