PMID: 34880134
Title: Targeted polyelectrolyte complex micelles treat vascular complications in vivo.

Abstract: Vascular disease is a leading cause of morbidity and mortality in the United States and globally. Pathological vascular remodeling, such as atherosclerosis and stenosis, largely develop at arterial sites of curvature, branching, and bifurcation, where disturbed blood flow activates vascular endothelium. Current pharmacological treatments of vascular complications principally target systemic risk factors. Improvements are needed. We previously devised a targeted polyelectrolyte complex micelle to deliver therapeutic nucleotides to inflamed endothelium in vitro by displaying the peptide VHPKQHR targeting vascular cell adhesion molecule 1 (VCAM-1) on the periphery of the micelle. This paper explores whether this targeted nanomedicine strategy effectively treats vascular complications in vivo. Disturbed flow-induced microRNA-92a (miR-92a) has been linked to endothelial dysfunction. We have engineered a transgenic line (miR-92aEC-TG /Apoe-/- ) establishing that selective miR-92a overexpression in adult vascular endothelium causally promotes atherosclerosis in Apoe-/- mice. We tested the therapeutic effectiveness of the VCAM-1-targeting polyelectrolyte complex micelles to deliver miR-92a inhibitors and treat pathological vascular remodeling in vivo. VCAM-1-targeting micelles preferentially delivered miRNA inhibitors to inflamed endothelial cells in vitro and in vivo. The therapeutic effectiveness of anti-miR-92a therapy in treating atherosclerosis and stenosis in Apoe-/- mice is markedly enhanced by the VCAM-1-targeting polyelectrolyte complex micelles. These results demonstrate a proof of concept to devise polyelectrolyte complex micelle-based targeted nanomedicine approaches treating vascular complications in vivo.

Citation: Zhou Z, et al. Targeted polyelectrolyte complex micelles treat vascular complications in vivo. Targeted polyelectrolyte complex micelles treat vascular complications in vivo. 2021; 118:(unknown pages). doi: 10.1073/pnas.2114842118

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34880134/
