PMID: 34888999
Title: Usability of intraoperative cine-portogram during liver transplantation in young pediatric patients with biliary atresia.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Pediatric patients with biliary atresia (BA) often present liver cirrhosis-associated portal hypertension and portal vein (PV) hypoplasia. For successful liver transplantation (LT), it is essential to maintain sufficient PV inflow through stenosis-free PV reconstruction with effective ligation of collateral veins. The aim of this study was to assess the clinical usability of intraoperative cine-portogram (IOCP) in young pediatric patients who underwent LT for BA.
METHODS: Medical records of pediatric patients younger than 10 years who underwent primary LT for BA from 2018 to 2020 were reviewed.
RESULTS: A total of 31 patients had undergone Kasai portoenterostomy soon after birth. Their median ages at Kasai portoenterostomy and LT were 1 and 11 months, respectively. Types of LT were living-donor LT in 13, deceased-donor split LT in 15, and deceased-donor whole LT in three patients. PV interposition using an iliac vein homograft was performed in 28 patients receiving partial liver grafts. Side-to-side PV unification venoplasty was performed in three patients undergoing whole LT. All patients underwent ligation of collateral veins. IOCP was performed in 6 (19.4%) patients. Four showed no or faint residual venous collaterals. Collateral vein embolization and endovascular stenting were performed in one patient each. PV insufficiency-free survival rate was 100% at 1 year and 93.8% at 3 years. All patients are currently alive with a median follow-up period of 23 months.
CONCLUSIONS: Intraoperative cine-portogram can be a useful method for identification and embolization of residual portosystemic collateral veins in young pediatric patients who undergo LT for biliary atresia.

Citation: Namgoong JM, et al. Usability of intraoperative cine-portogram during liver transplantation in young pediatric patients with biliary atresia. Usability of intraoperative cine-portogram during liver transplantation in young pediatric patients with biliary atresia. 2022; 26:e14207. doi: 10.1111/petr.14207

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34888999/
