PMID: 34888013
Title: Profilin-1 is involved in macroangiopathy induced by advanced glycation end products via vascular remodeling and inflammation.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: The accumulation of advanced glycation end products (AGEs) have been implicated in the development and progression of diabetic vasculopathy. However, the role of profilin-1 as a multifunctional actin-binding protein in AGEs-induced atherosclerosis (AS) is largely unknown.
AIM: To explore the potential role of profilin-1 in the pathogenesis of AS induced by AGEs, particularly in relation to the Janus kinase 2 (JAK2) and signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3) signaling pathway.
METHODS: Eighty-nine individuals undergoing coronary angiography were enrolled in the study. Plasma cytokine levels were detected using ELISA kits. Rat aortic vascular smooth muscle cells (RASMCs) were incubated with different compounds for different times. Cell proliferation was determined by performing the MTT assay and EdU staining. An AGEs-induced vascular remodeling model was established in rats and histological and immunohistochemical analyses were performed. The mRNA and protein levels were detected using real-time PCR and Western blot analysis, respectively. In vivo, shRNA transfection was performed to verify the role of profilin-1 in AGEs-induced proatherogenic mediator release and aortic remodeling. Statistical analyses were performed using SPSS 22.0 software.
RESULTS: Compared with the control group, plasma levels of profilin-1 and receptor for AGEs (RAGE) were significantly increased in patients with coronary artery disease, especially in those complicated with diabetes mellitus (P &lt; 0.01). The levels of profilin-1 were positively correlated with the levels of RAGE (P &lt; 0.01); additionally, the levels of both molecules were positively associated with the degree of coronary artery stenosis (P &lt; 0.01). In vivo, tail vein injections of AGEs induced the release of proatherogenic mediators, such as asymmetric dimethylarginine, intercellular adhesion molecule-1, and the N-terminus of procollagen III peptide, concomitant with apparent aortic morphological changes and significantly upregulated expression of the profilin-1 mRNA and protein in the thoracic aorta (P &lt; 0.05 or P &lt; 0.01). Downregulation of profilin-1 expression with an shRNA significantly attenuated AGEs-induced proatherogenic mediator release (P &lt; 0.05) and aortic remodeling. In vitro, incubation of vascular smooth muscle cells (VSMCs) with AGEs significantly promoted cell proliferation and upregulated the expression of the profilin-1 mRNA and protein (P &lt; 0.05). AGEs (200 μg/mL, 24 h) significantly upregulated the expression of the STAT3 mRNA and protein and JAK2 protein, which was blocked by a JAK2 inhibitor (T3042-1) and/or STAT3 inhibitor (T6308-1) (P &lt; 0.05). In addition, pretreatment with T3042-1 or T6308-1 significantly inhibited AGEs-induced RASMC proliferation (P &lt; 0.05).
CONCLUSION: AGEs induce proatherogenic events such as VSMC proliferation, proatherogenic mediator release, and vascular remodeling, changes that can be attenuated by silencing profilin-1 expression. These results suggest a crucial role for profilin-1 in AGEs-induced vasculopathy.

Citation: Xiao ZL, et al. Profilin-1 is involved in macroangiopathy induced by advanced glycation end products via vascular remodeling and inflammation. Profilin-1 is involved in macroangiopathy induced by advanced glycation end products via vascular remodeling and inflammation. 2021; 12:1875-1893. doi: 10.4239/wjd.v12.i11.1875

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34888013/
