PMID: 34882636
Title: Mesenteric Excision and Exclusion for Ileocolic Crohn's Disease: Feasibility and Safety of an Innovative, Combined Surgical Approach With Extended Mesenteric Excision and Kono-S Anastomosis.

Abstract: INTRODUCTION: Ileocolic resection for Crohn's disease traditionally does not include a high ligation of the ileocolic pedicle, and most commonly is performed with a stapled side-to-side ileocolic anastomosis. The mesentery has recently been implicated in the pathophysiology of Crohn's disease. Two techniques have been developed and are associated with reduced postoperative recurrence: the Kono-S anastomosis that excludes diseased mesentery and extended mesenteric excision that resects diseased mesentery. We aimed to assess the technical feasibility and safety of a novel combination of techniques: mesenteric excision and exclusion.
TECHNIQUES: This initial report is a single-center descriptive study of consecutive adults who underwent mesenteric excision and exclusion for primary or recurrent ileocolic Crohn's disease from September 2020 to June 2021. Medication exposure and endoscopic balloon dilation before surgery were recorded. Phenotype was classified using the Montreal Classification. Thirty-day outcomes were reported. A video of the mesenteric excision and exclusion including the Kono-S anastomosis is presented.
RESULTS: Twenty-two patients with ileocolic Crohn's disease underwent mesenteric excision and exclusion: 100% had strictures, 59% had fistulas, 81% were on biologics, and 27% had previous ileocolic resection(s). Seventy-two percent underwent laparoscopic procedures, a mesenteric defect was closed in 86%, omental flaps were fashioned in 77%, and 3 patients were diverted. Median operative time was 175 minutes. Median postoperative stay was 4 days. At 30 days, there were 2 readmissions for reintervention: 1 seton placement and 1 percutaneous drainage of a sterile collection. There were no cases of intra-abdominal sepsis or anastomotic leak.
CONCLUSIONS: Mesenteric excision and exclusion represents an innovative, progressive, and promising approach that appears to be highly feasible and safe. Further study is warranted to determine if mesenteric excision and exclusion is associated with reduced postoperative recurrence of ileocolic Crohn's disease.

Citation: Holubar SD, et al. Mesenteric Excision and Exclusion for Ileocolic Crohn's Disease: Feasibility and Safety of an Innovative, Combined Surgical Approach With Extended Mesenteric Excision and Kono-S Anastomosis. Mesenteric Excision and Exclusion for Ileocolic Crohn's Disease: Feasibility and Safety of an Innovative, Combined Surgical Approach With Extended Mesenteric Excision and Kono-S Anastomosis. 2022; 65:e5-e13. doi: 10.1097/DCR.0000000000002287

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34882636/
