PMID: 34888317
Title: Bronchoscopy-Guided Intervention Therapy With Extracorporeal Membrane Oxygenation Support for Relapsing Polychondritis With Severe Tracheobronchomalacia: A Case Report and Literature Review.

Abstract: Relapsing polychondritis is an immune disorder of unknown etiology involving multiple systems that is characterized by persistent inflammation and destruction of cartilage, including the ears, nose, costal, joint, and airways. Airway involvement caused by relapsing polychondritis is common, and tracheobronchomalacia is the most serious complication, which is life-threatening. Currently, the exact mechanism of relapsing polychondritis with tracheobronchomalacia is unknown. Although glucocorticoids and immunosuppressive agents are administered, failures often occur. Currently, bronchoscopy-guided intervention therapy used in tracheobronchomalacia caused by chronic obstructive pulmonary disease or other etiology has gradually increased, but bronchoscopy-guided intervention therapy with extracorporeal membrane oxygenation assist used in tracheobronchomalacia caused by relapsing polychondritis has not been reported. Here, we report a case of relapsing polychondritis with severe tracheobronchomalacia. Although drug therapy was provided and airway stent implantation was performed, the tracheal stenosis was further aggravated. Because conventional anesthesia and mechanical ventilation cannot meet the needs of bronchoscopy-guided intervention therapy or guarantee sufficient safety. The intervention treatment was performed with the support of extracorporeal membrane oxygenation, which was successfully completed without obvious complications. The symptoms were significantly improved, and the patient was discharged uneventfully.

Citation: Zhou P, et al. Bronchoscopy-Guided Intervention Therapy With Extracorporeal Membrane Oxygenation Support for Relapsing Polychondritis With Severe Tracheobronchomalacia: A Case Report and Literature Review. Bronchoscopy-Guided Intervention Therapy With Extracorporeal Membrane Oxygenation Support for Relapsing Polychondritis With Severe Tracheobronchomalacia: A Case Report and Literature Review. 2021; 8:695505. doi: 10.3389/fmed.2021.695505

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34888317/
