PMID: 34884806
Title: Ultrastructural Study of Platelet Behavior and Interrelationship in Sprouting and Intussusceptive Angiogenesis during Arterial Intimal Thickening Formation.

Abstract: Platelets in atherosclerosis, bypass stenosis, and restenosis have been extensively assessed. However, a sequential ultrastructural study of platelets in angiogenesis during the early phases of these lesions has received less attention. Our objective was the study of platelets in angiogenesis and vessel regression during intimal thickening (IT) formation, a precursor process of these occlusive vascular diseases. For this purpose, we used an experimental model of rat occluded arteries and procedures for ultrastructural observation. The results show (a) the absence of platelet adhesion in the de-endothelialized occluded arterial segment isolated from the circulation, (b) that intraarterial myriad platelets contributed from neovessels originated by sprouting angiogenesis from the periarterial microvasculature, (c) the association of platelets with blood components (fibrin, neutrophils, macrophages, and eosinophils) and non-polarized endothelial cells (ECs) forming aggregates (spheroids) in the arterial lumen, (d) the establishment of peg-and-socket junctions between platelets and polarized Ecs during intussusceptive angiogenesis originated from the EC aggregates, with the initial formation of IT, and (e) the aggregation of platelets in regressing neovessels ('transitory paracrine organoid') and IT increases. In conclusion, in sprouting and intussusceptive angiogenesis and vessel regression during IT formation, we contribute sequential ultrastructural findings on platelet behavior and relationships, which can be the basis for further studies using other procedures.

Citation: Díaz-Flores L, et al. Ultrastructural Study of Platelet Behavior and Interrelationship in Sprouting and Intussusceptive Angiogenesis during Arterial Intimal Thickening Formation. Ultrastructural Study of Platelet Behavior and Interrelationship in Sprouting and Intussusceptive Angiogenesis during Arterial Intimal Thickening Formation. 2021; 22:(unknown pages). doi: 10.3390/ijms222313001

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34884806/
