PMID: 34892040
Title: A Simulation Study for Three Dimensional Tomographic Field Free Line Magnetic Particle Imaging.

Abstract: Magnetic Particle Imaging (MPI) is an emerging modality that images the magnetic nanoparticle distribution inside the body. The method is based on the non-linear response of the magnetic nanoparticles to an applied magnetic field. In this study, we present simulation results for three-dimensional (3D) tomographic imaging using an open-bore MPI system that can electronically scan a field free line (FFL). A field of view with 26×26×10 mm3 volume is imaged with a relatively low gradient field of 0.5 T/m. Imaging results for two 3D phantoms are presented: a letter phantom and a vessel phantom with stenosis regions. Using the system-matrix based reconstruction approach, the images were obtained with the Algebraic reconstruction technique (ART) and alternating direction method of multipliers (ADMM) methods. The stenosis regions were visually recognizable in high SNR conditions with ADMM. The effect of low gradient strength became prominent with increasing noise level, resulting in interlayer coupling artifacts.Clinical relevance- Magnetic Particle Imaging (MPI) is a new tracer-based imaging modality with high-spatiotemporal resolution. MPI can map quantitative distribution of super-paramagnetic iron oxide nanoparticles introduced inside the body. A field free line scanning MPI system with an open configuration can enable imaging of human-size volumes for interventional operations. In this study, we present simulation results for an FFL scanning open MPI system configuration to scan 3D field of view volume electronically. We analyze 3D imaging performance for various SNR levels at a low gradient value of 0.5 T/m that is relevant for clinical-size systems.

Citation: Soydan DA, et al. A Simulation Study for Three Dimensional Tomographic Field Free Line Magnetic Particle Imaging. A Simulation Study for Three Dimensional Tomographic Field Free Line Magnetic Particle Imaging. 2021; 2021:3701-3704. doi: 10.1109/EMBC46164.2021.9631111

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34892040/
