PMID: 34891738
Title: A Machine Learning Model for the Identification of High risk Carotid Atherosclerotic Plaques.

Abstract: Carotid artery disease is an inflammatory condition involving the deposition and accumulation of lipid species and leucocytes from blood into the arterial wall, which causes the narrowing of the carotid arteries on either side of the neck. Different imaging modalities can by implemented to determine the presence and the location of carotid artery stenosis, such as carotid ultrasound, computed tomography angiography (CTA), magnetic resonance angiography (MRA), or cerebral angiography. However, except of the presence and the degree of stenosis of the carotid arteries, the vulnerability of the carotid atherosclerotic plaques constitutes a significant factor for the progression of the disease and the presence of disease symptoms. In this study, our aim is to develop and present a machine learning model for the identification of high risk plaques using non imaging based features and non-invasive imaging based features. Firstly, we implemented statistical analysis to identify the most statistical significant features according to the defined output, and subsequently, we implemented different feature selection techniques and classification schemes for the development of our machine learning model. The overall methodology has been trained and tested using 208 cases of 107 cases of low risk plaques and 101 cases of high risk plaques. The highest accuracy of 0.76 was achieved using the relief feature selection technique and the support vector machine classification scheme. The innovative aspect of the proposed machine learning model is both the different categories of the utilized input features and the definition of the problem to be solved.

Citation: Kigka VI, et al. A Machine Learning Model for the Identification of High risk Carotid Atherosclerotic Plaques. A Machine Learning Model for the Identification of High risk Carotid Atherosclerotic Plaques. 2021; 2021:2266-2269. doi: 10.1109/EMBC46164.2021.9630654

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34891738/
