PMID: 34897641
Title: Serum uric acid is an independent risk factor of worse mid- and long-term outcomes in patients with non-ST-segment elevation acute coronary syndromes.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: The data on the association between serum uric acid (sUA) concentration and outcomes in patients with an ACS are inconsistent and do not focus on patients with non-ST-segment elevation acute coronary syndromes (NSTE-ACS). The aim of this study was to analyze an association of sUA concentration on admission and outcomes in those patients.
METHODS: Data from the prospective, single-center registry of patients hospitalized due to NSTE-ACS from January 2006 to December 2016 were analyzed retrospectively. The population was divided into quartiles according to the baseline sUA. The primary outcome was the incidence of all-cause death, non-fatal myocardial infarction, stroke and ACS-driven revascularization at 36 months.
RESULTS: Total of 2,824 patients with sUA measured on admission were included in this analysis with a median sUA of 352 µmol/L (5.92 mg/dL). Patients with higher sUA were older and more burdened with cardiovascular risk factors and history of coronary events. The prevalence of multivessel coronary artery disease and left main stenosis was significantly higher in patients with higher sUA. Elevated sUA concentration was associated with significantly worse short-, mid- and long-term outcomes. All-cause mortality was significantly higher in each analyzed period. In the multivariable analysis, sUA elevation was identified as an independent predictor of all-cause mortality at 12-month and 36-month follow-up.
CONCLUSIONS: Elevated baseline sUA concentration was independently associated with worse mid- and long-term outcomes in patients with NSTE-ACS. Baseline sUA concentration could identify patients with NSTE-ACS at higher risk of more dismal prognosis.

Citation: Dyrbuś M, et al. Serum uric acid is an independent risk factor of worse mid- and long-term outcomes in patients with non-ST-segment elevation acute coronary syndromes. Serum uric acid is an independent risk factor of worse mid- and long-term outcomes in patients with non-ST-segment elevation acute coronary syndromes. 2021; 30:984-94. doi: 10.5603/CJ.a2021.0156

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34897641/
