PMID: 34893967
Title: Clinical Pharmacokinetics and Pharmacodynamics of Desmoteplase.

Abstract: Desmoteplase is a bat (Desmodus rotundus) saliva-derived fibrinolytic enzyme resembling a urokinase and tissue plasminogen activator. It is highly dependent on fibrin and has some neuroprotective attributes. Intravenous administration of desmoteplase is safe and well tolerated in healthy subjects. Plasma fibrinolytic activity is linearly related to its blood concentration, its terminal elimination half-life ranges from 3.8 to 4.92 h (50 vs. 90 μg/kg dose). Administration of desmoteplase leads to transitory derangement of fibrinogen, D-dimer, alpha2-antiplasmin, and plasmin and antiplasmin complex which normalize within 4-12 h. It does not alter a prothrombin test, international normalized ratio, activated partial thromboplastin time, and prothrombin fragment 1.2. Desmoteplase was tested in myocardial infarction and pulmonary embolism and showed promising results versus alteplase. In ischemic stroke trials, desmoteplase was linked to increased rates of symptomatic intracranial hemorrhages and case fatality. However, data from "The desmoteplase in Acute Ischemic Stroke" Trials, DIAS-3 and DIAS-J, suggest that the drug is well tolerated and its safety profile is comparable to placebo. Desmoteplase is theoretically a superior thrombolytic because of high fibrin specificity, no activation of beta-amyloid, and lack of neurotoxicity. It was associated with better outcomes in patients with significant stenosis or occlusion of a proximal precerebral vessels. However, DIAS-4 was stopped as it might have not reached its primary endpoint. Due to its promising properties, desmoteplase may be added into treatment of ischemic stroke with extension of the time window and special emphasis on patients presenting outside the 4.5-h thrombolysis window, with wake-up strokes and strokes of unknown onset.

Citation: Piechowski-Jozwiak B, et al. Clinical Pharmacokinetics and Pharmacodynamics of Desmoteplase. Clinical Pharmacokinetics and Pharmacodynamics of Desmoteplase. 2022; 47:165-176. doi: 10.1007/s13318-021-00743-8

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34893967/
