PMID: 34890849
Title: Efficacy and Complications of Unilateral Biportal Endoscopic Spinal Surgery for Lumbar Spinal Stenosis: A Meta-Analysis and Systematic Review.

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: As an emerging minimally invasive endoscopic technique, unilateral biportal endoscopic spinal surgery (UBESS) has the advantages of flexibility, a wide and clear field of view, and less soft tissue damage. However, the clinical evidence is insufficient and controversy exists regarding UBESS for the treatment of lumbar spinal stenosis (LSS). In the present meta-analysis, we investigated the clinical efficacy and complications of UBESS for the treatment of LSS.
METHODS: The PubMed, Embase, Web of Science, and Cochrane Library databases were searched through to June 1, 2021 to identify all reported studies on UBESS for LSS. Only English-language studies with original reported data from ≥30 cases were considered for inclusion. The patient demographics, operative time, hospital stay, complications, visual analog scale (VAS) score, Oswestry disability index, and Macnab criteria were extracted. Quality assessment was performed using the Cochrane collaboration tool for randomized controlled trials and the Newcastle-Ottawa scale for retrospective studies. A meta-analysis was performed using a random or fixed effect model according to the heterogeneity.
RESULTS: Thirteen studies with 586 patients and 607 operation levels were included. The mean single-level operative time, hospital stay, and follow-up duration were 61.10 minutes, 2.32 days, and 14.7 months, respectively. At the final follow-up visit, the mean VAS score for leg pain had decreased from 7.23 preoperatively to 1.83 postoperatively, the mean VAS score for back pain had decreased from 6.30 to 1.95, and the mean Oswestry disability index had significantly improved from 56.99 to 17.83. The average satisfied outcome (excellent or good using the Macnab criteria) was 86%. The overall complication rate was 5%, and the most common complication was a dural tear, with an incidence of 2%, followed by epidural hematoma with an incidence of 1%. The remaining complications were nerve root injury, inadequate decompression, and postoperative headache.
CONCLUSIONS: From the available clinical results and experience from reported studies, UBESS for LSS is a feasible and effective approach and a worthwhile choice for clinicians. However, the complications associated with the procedure should also be seriously considered.

Citation: Liang J, et al. Efficacy and Complications of Unilateral Biportal Endoscopic Spinal Surgery for Lumbar Spinal Stenosis: A Meta-Analysis and Systematic Review. Efficacy and Complications of Unilateral Biportal Endoscopic Spinal Surgery for Lumbar Spinal Stenosis: A Meta-Analysis and Systematic Review. 2022; 159:e91-e102. doi: 10.1016/j.wneu.2021.12.005

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34890849/
