PMID: 34904105
Title: Duodenal ulcer caused by coil wiggle after digital subtraction angiography-guided embolization: A case report.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Acute gastrointestinal bleeding (GIB) is a life-threatening medical emergency with high morbidity and mortality. Transcatheter embolization with endovascular coils under digital subtraction angiography guidance is a common and effective method for the treatment of GIB with high technical success rates. Duodenal ulcers caused by coils wiggled from the branch of the gastroduodenal artery, which is a rare complication, have not previously been reported in a patient with right intrathoracic stomach.
CASE SUMMARY: A 62-year-old man had undergone thoracoscopy-assisted radical resection of esophageal cancer and gastroesophageal anastomosis 3 years ago, resulting in right intrathoracic stomach. He was admitted to the hospital 15 mo ago for dizziness and suffered acute GIB during his stay. Interventional surgery was urgently performed to embolize the branch of the gastroduodenal artery with endovascular coils. After 15 mo, the patient was re-admitted with a chief complaint of melena for 2 d, esophagogastroduodenoscopy and abdominal computed tomography revealed that some endovascular coils had migrated into the duodenal bulb, leading to a deep ulcer. Bleeding was controlled after conservative treatment. Seven months later, duodenal balloon dilatation was performed to relieve the stenosis after the removal of a few coils, and the patient was safely discharged with only one coil retained in the duodenum due to difficulties in complete removal and risk of bleeding. Mild melena recurred once during the long-term follow-up.
CONCLUSION: Although rare, coil wiggle after interventional therapy requires careful attention, effective precautionary measures, and more secure alternative treatment methods.

Citation: Xu S, et al. Duodenal ulcer caused by coil wiggle after digital subtraction angiography-guided embolization: A case report. Duodenal ulcer caused by coil wiggle after digital subtraction angiography-guided embolization: A case report. 2021; 9:10315-10322. doi: 10.12998/wjcc.v9.i33.10315

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34904105/
