PMID: 34903454
Title: Neurologic Dysfunction and Neuroprotection in Transcatheter Aortic Valve Implantation.

Abstract: Transcatheter aortic valve implantation (TAVI) is a fast-growing procedure. Expanding to low-risk patients, it has surpassed surgical aortic valve implantation in frequency and has been associated with excellent outcomes. Stroke is a devastating complication after transcatheter aortic valve implantation. Silent brain infarcts identified by diffusion-weighted magnetic resonance imaging are present in most patients following TAVI. Postoperative delirium and cognitive dysfunction are common neurologic complications. The stroke and silent brain infarcts are likely caused by particulate emboli released during the procedure. Intravascularly positioned cerebral embolic protection devices are designed to prevent debris from entering the aortic arch vessels to avoid stroke. Despite promising design, randomized clinical trials have not demonstrated a reduction in stroke in patients receiving cerebral embolic protection devices. Similarly, the association of cerebral embolic protection devices with silent brain infarcts, postoperative delirium, and cognitive dysfunction is uncertain. Monitored anesthesia care or conscious sedation is as safe as general anesthesia and is associated with lower cost, but different anesthetic techniques have not been shown to decrease stroke risk, postoperative delirium, or cognitive dysfunction. Anesthesiologists play important roles in providing perioperative care including management of neurologic events in patients undergoing TAVI. Large randomized clinical trials are needed that focus on the correlation between perioperative interventions and neurologic outcomes.

Citation: Riley KJ, et al. Neurologic Dysfunction and Neuroprotection in Transcatheter Aortic Valve Implantation. Neurologic Dysfunction and Neuroprotection in Transcatheter Aortic Valve Implantation. 2022; 36:3224-3236. doi: 10.1053/j.jvca.2021.11.016

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34903454/
