PMID: 34902476
Title: Carotid Endarterectomy versus Carotid Artery Stenting With Double-Layer Micromesh Carotid Stent: Contemporary Results of a Single-Center Retrospective Study.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Severe carotid stenosis (CS) is a major risk factor for stroke. Carotid Endarterectomy (CEA) is the gold standard revascularization technique of CS while carotid artery stenting (CAS) is considered an alternative treatment option, especially in high-risk patients or those with relative contraindications to CEA. The aim of this study was to evaluate the results of CEA and CAS with Roadsaver® stent device.
METHODS: We made a retrospective analysis of 119 patients undergoing treatment of CS. All CS were evaluated with imaging exams. The patients were divided into CEA group and CAS group. As primary endpoints of the study overall and cardiovascular cause - related mortality, freedom from stroke, and restenosis were considered. All patients were followed up and revaluated with duplex scan over a minimum of 6 months and a maximum of 36 months (follow-up mean time 22.3 ± 3.4 months).
RESULTS: In the whole cohort 86 of 119 patients underwent CEA and 33 of 119 CAS. Risk factors were superposable in both groups. During follow-up, we observed 4 deaths, 2 cardiovascular events and 12 restenosis. CEA was associated with lower death probability than CAS (P = 0.036). Probability of Restenosis and cardiovascular events did not vary between CAS and CEA groups.
CONCLUSIONS: Albeit CEA remains the gold standard for the treatment of severe CS, CAS with new double layer micromesh stent can be considered a useful and safe alternative in some clinical conditions.

Citation: Bracale UM, et al. Carotid Endarterectomy versus Carotid Artery Stenting With Double-Layer Micromesh Carotid Stent: Contemporary Results of a Single-Center Retrospective Study. Carotid Endarterectomy versus Carotid Artery Stenting With Double-Layer Micromesh Carotid Stent: Contemporary Results of a Single-Center Retrospective Study. 2022; 82:41-46. doi: 10.1016/j.avsg.2021.10.073

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34902476/
