PMID: 34909307
Title: Thrombolytic Therapy in the Oldest Old: Successful Alteplase Administration in a 105-Year-Old Female With Ischemic Stroke.

Abstract: The elderly have a higher incidence of ischemic stroke along with higher mortality and morbidity compared to their younger counterparts. However, though studies have included people &gt;85 or 90 years of age, there haven't been reports of many individuals above 100 years of age. Among the oldest old, the oldest age studied for alteplase administration is possibly 101 years. We present a case of a 105-year-old woman with a medical history of a cerebrovascular accident in 2018 for which she received thrombolytic therapy with residual slurred speech and mild dysphagia. She was brought in from her nursing facility for worsening of slurred speech and right facial droop that began two hours before presentation to the emergency department. She was found to have aphasia, left-sided gaze preference, and upper motor neuron dysfunction of her right arm associated with drift. Her National Institutes of Health Stroke Scale (NIHSS) score at presentation was 17. An urgent CT scan of the head was performed that did not show any evidence of acute bleeding. CT angiogram of brain and neck was unremarkable with no evidence of high-grade stenosis, aneurysm, occlusion, or dissection. With the negative CT findings, the patient received thrombolytic therapy with alteplase. She was monitored in the intensive care unit for 24 hours after alteplase administration with neurological checks every one hour. The repeated CT head after 24 hours was negative for any hemorrhage. She was discharged after two days of hospital admission and her NIHSS score on the day of discharge was 4. Our patient was 105 years old, which is arguably one of the oldest ages to receive alteplase. Her NIHSS score improved considerably and she did not suffer from hemorrhagic complications.

Citation: Bhandari S, et al. Thrombolytic Therapy in the Oldest Old: Successful Alteplase Administration in a 105-Year-Old Female With Ischemic Stroke. Thrombolytic Therapy in the Oldest Old: Successful Alteplase Administration in a 105-Year-Old Female With Ischemic Stroke. 2021; 13:e19346. doi: 10.7759/cureus.19346

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34909307/
