PMID: 34914229
Title: [Modified urethral reconstruction with lingual mucosa for complicated anterior urethral stricture].

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: To investigate the efficiency and complications of modified urethral reconstruction with lingual mucosa in the treatment of complicated anterior urethral stricture (CAUS).
METHODS: We retrospectively studied the clinical data on 10 cases of CAUS treated by modified urethral reconstruction with lingual mucosa from December 2017 to June 2019 concerning the age of the patients and the causes, location and length of urethral stricture. We statistically analyzed the pre- and post-operative maximum urine flow rate (Qmax), scores on Mental Status Scale in Non-psychiatric Settings (MSSNS) and quality of life (QOL) scores and observed post-operative complications such as abnormal taste, tongue numbness, urinary tract infection, urethral diverticulum, and urethral stricture.
RESULTS: Compared with the baseline, Qmax was significantly improved and the MSSNS and QOL scores dramatically decreased at 3, 6 and 12 months after surgery (P < 0.01). Paraurethral infection developed in 1 case postoperatively, which was cured after dressing change, external urethral orifice stenosis occurred in another, which was improved after regular urethral orifice expansion, and mild tongue numbness was found in 2 cases at 1 month but gradually restored to abnormal. Urethrography showed no urethral diverticulum before catheter removal.
CONCLUSIONS: Lingual mucosa is an ideal alternative material for urethral reconstruction in the treatment of CAUS, and lateral lingual mucosa can be easily obtained. Modified urethral reconstruction by embedding lingual mucosa in the dorsal base of the urethra, with the advantages of definite effectiveness and few postoperative complications, is worthy of clinical application.

Citation: Zhou ZX, et al. [Modified urethral reconstruction with lingual mucosa for complicated anterior urethral stricture]. [Modified urethral reconstruction with lingual mucosa for complicated anterior urethral stricture]. 2021; 27:621-625.

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34914229/
