PMID: 34916696
Title: [Effect of different shunt strategies on cerebral infarction after carotid endarterectomy].

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: The key point of anesthesia management in carotid endarterectomy (CEA) is to maintain adequate cerebral perfusion during carotid artery occlusion. Placement of shunt is one of the common surgical methods. This study analyzed the effects of different shunt strategies on cerebral infarction after carotid endarterectomy.
METHODS: A total of 443 patients who underwent CEA under general anesthesia within 2 years were divided into imaging group (based on preoperative imaging data as the basis for shunt) and stump pressure group (based on intraoperative stump pressure as the basis for shunt). The preoperative demographic data, past medical history, degree of cervical vascular stenosis, blood pressure at each time point during the perioperative period, vascular blocking time, whether to place the shunt, postoperative hospital stay, cerebral infarction during hospitalization, and other adverse events were collected and compared between the two groups. On this basis, the preoperative and intraoperative conditions with significant differences were matched with propensity scores, and the influence of different shunt strategies on postoperative cerebral infarction was analyzed.
RESULTS: In the study, 268 patients in the imaging group and 175 patients in the stump pressure group underwent CEA under general anesthesia. There were statistically significant differences in basic conditions and blood pressure at each time point between the two groups. After matching the propensity scores, 105 patients in each of the two groups were matched. The basic conditions of the patients before surgery and the difference in blood pressure of the two groups at each time point were not statistically significant. There was no significant diffe-rence in the incidence of postoperative cerebral infarction between the two groups (1.9% vs. 1.0%, P&gt;0.999). The intraoperative shunt rate in the imaging group was lower than that in the stump pressure group (0 vs. 22.9%, P &lt; 0.001). The postoperative hospital stay in the imaging group was 8 (7, 8) days, which was longer than the stump pressure group 5 (4, 6) days (P &lt; 0.001).
CONCLUSION: The rate of the shunt was lower according to preoperative imaging examination than that according to the residual pressure in our hospital. There is no significant difference in the incidence of cerebral infarction during the postoperative hospital stay. The effect of different shunt strategies on cerebral infarction needs further study.

Citation: Bai P, et al. [Effect of different shunt strategies on cerebral infarction after carotid endarterectomy]. [Effect of different shunt strategies on cerebral infarction after carotid endarterectomy]. 2021; 53:1144-1151. doi: 10.19723/j.issn.1671-167X.2021.06.023

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34916696/
