PMID: 34912393
Title: A comparative study on the Efficacy of Retroperitoneoscopic Pyeloplasty and Open Surgery for Ureteropelvic Junction Obstruction in Children.

Abstract: OBJECTIVES: To compare the therapeutic effect of retroperitoneoscopic dismembered pyeloplasty and open ureteropelvic junction plasty on the ureteropelvic junction obstruction (UPJO) in children.
METHODS: After the retrospective analysis of clinical data, 78 children with ureteropelvic junction stenosis treated from January, 2012 to June, 2018 were divided into two groups: OP (open pyeloplasty) group (38 cases) and LP (laparoscopic dismembered pyeloplasty) group (40 cases) according to the surgical methods. The operation time, intraoperative bleeding volume, postoperative length of stay (LOS), postoperative complication rate, postoperative hydronephrosis improvement and other indicators were compared between the two groups.
RESULTS: All patients underwent surgery successfully, without conversion to open surgery in LP group. The incidence of postoperative urine leakage and the recovery of hydronephrosis between LP group and OP group 12 months after operation showed no statistically significant difference (P>0.05). The intraoperative bleeding volume, the incidence of postoperative retroperitoneal hematoma, and the postoperative LOS in LP group were lower than those in OP group, while the operation time was longer than that in the OP group, with statistically significant difference (P<0.05).
CONCLUSION: Retroperitoneoscopic dismembered pyeloplasty had similar effect with open dismembered pyeloplasty, but faster recovery and fewer complications, so it has become the preferred treatment method for UPJO in children.

Citation: Jia J, et al. A comparative study on the Efficacy of Retroperitoneoscopic Pyeloplasty and Open Surgery for Ureteropelvic Junction Obstruction in Children. A comparative study on the Efficacy of Retroperitoneoscopic Pyeloplasty and Open Surgery for Ureteropelvic Junction Obstruction in Children. 2021; 37:1768-1774. doi: 10.12669/pjms.37.7.4205

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34912393/
