PMID: 34921963
Title: Lack of association between cognitive impairment and systemic inflammation in asymptomatic carotid stenosis.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Asymptomatic carotid atherosclerotic stenosis (ACAS) is associated with cognitive impairment. Systemic inflammation occurs in patients with systemic atherosclerosis and is also associated with cognitive impairment. The goal of this study was to determine if cognitive impairment in patients with ACAS is the result of systemic inflammation.
METHODS: A cross-sectional analysis of 104 patients (63 patients with ACAS, 41 controls) with cognitive function and inflammatory biomarker assessments was performed. Venous blood was assayed for proinflammatory biomarkers (IL-1β, IL-6, IL-6R, IL-8, IL-17, tumor necrosis factor-α, matrix metalloproteinase [MMP]-1, MMP-2, MMP-7, MMP-9, vascular cell adhesion molecule, and high-sensitivity C-reactive protein). The patients also underwent comprehensive cognitive testing to compute five domain-specific cognitive scores per patient. We first assessed the associations between carotid stenosis and cognitive function, and between carotid stenosis and systemic inflammation in separate regression models. We then determined whether cognitive impairments persisted in patients with carotid stenosis after accounting for inflammation by adjusting for inflammatory biomarker levels in a combined model.
RESULTS: Patients with ACAS and control patients differed in age, race, coronary artery disease prevalence, and education. Stenosis patients had worse cognitive scores in two domains: learning and memory (P = .05) and motor and processing speed (P = .002). Despite adjusting for inflammatory biomarker levels, patients with ACAS still demonstrated deficits in the domains of learning and memory and motor and processing speed.
CONCLUSIONS: Although systemic atherosclerosis-induced inflammation is a well-recognized cause for cognitive impairment, our data suggest that it is not the primary underlying mechanism behind cognitive impairments seen in ACAS. Cognitive impairments in learning and memory and motor and processing speed seen in patients with ACAS persist after adjusting for systemic inflammation. Thus, alternative mechanisms should be explored to account for the observed functional impairments.

Citation: Desikan SK, et al. Lack of association between cognitive impairment and systemic inflammation in asymptomatic carotid stenosis. Lack of association between cognitive impairment and systemic inflammation in asymptomatic carotid stenosis. 2022; 75:1643-1650. doi: 10.1016/j.jvs.2021.11.061

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34921963/
