PMID: 34921483
Title: Outcomes following use of pediatric and young adult donor hearts with bicuspid aortic valves: A single-center case series.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Valvular disease in pediatric and young adult donor hearts may be a relative contraindication to graft use. Outcomes following the use of donor hearts with bicuspid aortic valve (BAV) have not been previously reported in children. We describe 4 cases of pediatric heart transplantation (HTx) utilizing a donor heart with a BAV.
CASE SERIES: Of the 469 HTx included in this study, 4 utilized a donor heart with a BAV. All recipients were female; median age was 11 years (range 0.3 to 19 years). In all cases, the BAV was not discovered until after HTx. All donors were less than 30 years old. The patients were followed for a median of 6 years (range 2 to 9 years) with all patients alive at last follow-up. Two patients have transitioned to adult care, and 2 patients continue to follow in our clinic. In follow-up, no patient has required an aortic valve intervention or had infective endocarditis. At last review, no patient had greater than mild aortic insufficiency or more than mild aortic stenosis. Three patients developed mild-to-moderate left ventricular hypertrophy in the first year post-transplant that improved over time. One patient experienced a peri-operative embolic stroke at time of transplant unrelated to the BAV.
CONCLUSION: On short- and intermediate-term follow-up, pediatric and young adult donor hearts with BAV demonstrated acceptable graft longevity and valvular function. A functionally normal BAV in a pediatric heart transplant donor should not be a contraindication to organ acceptance.

Citation: Day P, et al. Outcomes following use of pediatric and young adult donor hearts with bicuspid aortic valves: A single-center case series. Outcomes following use of pediatric and young adult donor hearts with bicuspid aortic valves: A single-center case series. 2022; 26:e14212. doi: 10.1111/petr.14212

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34921483/
