PMID: 34922832
Title: Urethrocutaneous fistula repair following hypospadias surgery using the PATIO technique for small fistulae: A single centre experience.

Abstract: INTRODUCTION: Urethrocutaneous fistula (UCF) development following primary hypospadias repair is a common complication with high rates of recurrence despite attempts at repair. A novel technique for the management of these fistulae, the PATIO (preserve the tract and turn it inside out) repair, has been described and has shown encouraging outcomes in previous reports.
OBJECTIVE: The aim of this study was to evaluate fistula repair outcomes in patients undergoing the PATIO technique compared with standard repair.
STUDY DESIGN: A retrospective chart-based review was performed for pediatric patients undergoing UCF repair from January 2005 to July 2018. Data including: age, follow-up, meatal location, meatal stenosis, number of fistulae and repairs, UCF location, complications, and outcomes was obtained. Cases were categorized into PATIO repair, standard repair, and PATIO repair following prior standard repair. Surgical outcome with respect to freedom from fistula recurrence was determined.
RESULTS: In total, 586 patients underwent hypospadias surgery with 44 patients developing 52 UCF cases that required repair during the study period for a fistula rate of 8.9%. Mean age at repair was 19 months. Median follow-up time was 28 months. For PATIO repair alone, 21/26 (81%) had success. For standard repair alone, 8/18 (44%) had success and for standard repair followed by PATIO repair, 8/8 (100%) were successful. A statistically significant difference was noted for success when comparing standard repair with PATIO repair (p = 0.023, p < 0.05) and PATIO repair following standard repair (p = 0.010, p < 0.05). There was a statistically non-significant difference between PATIO repair and PATIO repair following standard repair (p = 0.309, p < 0.05). Failure following PATIO repair was found in cases where the procedure was early in implementation and experience was limited.
DISCUSSION: UCF repair using the PATIO technique has shown encouraging results in the short-term, with a majority of patients achieving a successful outcome compared with standards techniques. As this procedure continues to be used and experience develops, a larger sample of cases will become available for analysis and longer follow-up will prove necessary in examining the long-term outcomes of this procedure. The outcomes examined have demonstrated consistency with previously reported outcomes in the literature. Limitations include small sample size, short-term follow up, and the retrospective nature of the review.
CONCLUSIONS: The findings of this study have provided further support to the use of this technique in conventional UCF repair as a means to decrease the risk of recurrence and provide durable results in the short-term. Ongoing follow up will prove necessary to examine success in the long-term.

Citation: Singh J. Urethrocutaneous fistula repair following hypospadias surgery using the PATIO technique for small fistulae: A single centre experience. Urethrocutaneous fistula repair following hypospadias surgery using the PATIO technique for small fistulae: A single centre experience. 2022; 18:60.e1-60.e7. doi: 10.1016/j.jpurol.2021.11.014

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34922832/
