PMID: 34925823
Title: Postural instability revealing infective endocarditis secondary to severe mitral stenosis: A case report with literature review.

Abstract: INTRODUCTION AND IMPORTANCE: Infective endocarditis is a severe infection of the endocardial surface of the heart. One or more heart valves can be infected. However infective endocarditis complicating mitral stenosis is rare. It can be revealed by several and various symptoms such as fever and cardiac murmurs but also by complications such as focal neurological complaints.
CASE PRESENTATION: We report a case of a febrile postural instability as the primary presentation of an infective endocarditis secondary to a severe mitral stenosis in a young patient with a history of mitral stenosis for which he benefited from percutaneous mitral dilation. The diagnosis was based on the modified Duke criteria. In this case, the treatment was based mainly on antibiotic therapy. The outcome was favorable; with a clinical, biological and radiological improvement. The patient was subsequently referred to the cardiovascular department for surgical treatment of his valve disease.
CLINICAL DISCUSSION: Rheumatic heart disease is the main cause of mitral stenosis and its prevalence is higher in developing nations than in the rest of the world, yet only few articles have reported infective endocarditis as a complication of mitral stenosis.
CONCLUSION: Mitral stenosis is rarely complicated by infective endocarditis, but this diagnosis should not be excluded in developing countries, particularly because of its high prevalence. To that end, clinicians should recognize its symptoms and complications and act accordingly to allow early treatment.

Citation: Faraj R, et al. Postural instability revealing infective endocarditis secondary to severe mitral stenosis: A case report with literature review. Postural instability revealing infective endocarditis secondary to severe mitral stenosis: A case report with literature review. 2021; 72:103131. doi: 10.1016/j.amsu.2021.103131

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34925823/
