PMID: 34929467
Title: Accuracy versus reliability-based modelling approaches for medical decision making.

Abstract: Forecasting in the medical domain is critical to the quality of decisions made by physicians, patients, and health planners. Modeling is one of the most important components of decision support systems, which are frequently used to simulate and analyze under-studied systems in order to make more appropriate decisions in medical science. In the medical modeling literature, various approaches with varying structures and characteristics have been proposed to cover a wide range of application categories and domains. Regardless of the differences between modeling approaches, all of them aim to maximize the accuracy or reliability of the results in order to achieve the most generalizable model and, as a result, a higher level of profitability decisions. Despite the theoretical significance and practical impact of reliability on generalizability, particularly in high-risk decisions and applications, a significant number of models in the fields of medical forecasting, classification, and time series prediction have been developed to maximize accuracy in mind. In other words, given the volatility of medical variables, it is also necessary to have stable and reliable forecasts in order to make sound decisions. The quality of medical decisions resulting from accuracy and reliability-based intelligent and statistical modeling approaches is compared and evaluated in this paper in order to determine the relative importance of accuracy and reliability on the quality of made decisions in decision support systems. For this purpose, 33 different case studies from the UCI in three categories of supervised modeling, namely causal forecasting, time series prediction, and classification, were considered. These cases were chosen from various domains, such as disease diagnosis (obesity, Parkinson's disease, diabetes, hepatitis, stenosis of arteries, orthopedic disease, autism) and cancer (lung, breast, cervical), experiments, therapy (immunotherapy, cryotherapy), fertility prediction, and predicting the number of patients in the emergency room and ICU. According to empirical findings, the reliability-based strategy outperformed the accuracy-based strategy in causal forecasting cases by 2.26%, classification cases by 13.49%, and time series prediction cases by 3.08%. Furthermore, compared to similar accuracy-based models, the reliability-based models can generate a 6.28% improvement. As a result, they can be considered an appropriate alternative to traditional accuracy-based models for medical decision support systems modeling purposes.

Citation: Etemadi S and Khashei M. Accuracy versus reliability-based modelling approaches for medical decision making. Accuracy versus reliability-based modelling approaches for medical decision making. 2022; 141:105138. doi: 10.1016/j.compbiomed.2021.105138

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34929467/
