PMID: 34926231
Title: Intraoperative neurophysiologic monitoring prevented iatrogenic spinal cord injury during robotic-assisted transabdominal adrenalectomy: a case report.

Abstract: Cervical spondylotic myelopathy (CSM) is the most common disease of the cervical spinal cord in patients older than 55 and is characterized by an initial asymptomatic period followed by progressive neurological deficit from degenerative changes of the cervical vertebrae. These changes cause compression and vascular compromise to the cervical spinal cord. Because there are no pathognomonic symptoms, its diagnosis is commonly delayed. Herein we report the first case of the use of IONM during a transabdominal adrenalectomy in a patient with CSM, which prevented an iatrogenic spinal cord injury (SCI). The patient is a 74-year-old male with what was proven later as cervical spinal stenosis who presented for robotic-assisted transabdominal adrenalectomy. When positioned supine on the operating table, he exhibited upper and lower extremity neurological symptoms, prompting awake fiberoptic intubation and the use of IONM secondary to suspicion for CSM. After being positioned into lateral decubitus, IONM showed a loss of transcranial motor evoked potentials (TcMEP) and attenuated somatosensory evoked potentials (SSEP) from the right lower extremities and the procedure was aborted and the patient returned supine. TcMEPs returned to baseline, but SSEPs remained attenuated. The patient exhibited normal movement and sensation in post-anesthesia care. A high index of suspicion for CSM is required for older patients, as early diagnosis allows for spinal surgery treatment before acute worsening during anesthesia or non-spinal surgery. Furthermore, a low threshold for the use of IONM in patients with a high likelihood of CSM who require a non-spinal surgery can successfully prevent iatrogenic SCI.

Citation: Wathieu N, et al. Intraoperative neurophysiologic monitoring prevented iatrogenic spinal cord injury during robotic-assisted transabdominal adrenalectomy: a case report. Intraoperative neurophysiologic monitoring prevented iatrogenic spinal cord injury during robotic-assisted transabdominal adrenalectomy: a case report. 2021; 10:3155-3162. doi: 10.21037/gs-21-235

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34926231/
