PMID: 34937834
Title: Preprocedural Prediction of Underlying Atherosclerotic Lesions in Cerebral Large-Vessel Occlusions: Clinical Backgrounds, Radiological Findings, and Treatment Outcomes.

Abstract: AIMS: Mechanical thrombectomy using a standard device has been effective for acute cerebral large-vessel occlusions, particularly those due to cardiogenic embolism. However, evidence for those with underlying atherosclerotic lesions is lacking. In this study, we evaluated the predictive factors, treatment details, and outcomes of acute cerebral large-vessel occlusions with underlying atherosclerotic lesions in patients who underwent mechanical thrombectomy.
METHODS: We retrospectively analyzed consecutive patients with acute large-vessel occlusions who underwent mechanical thrombectomy at our institution between August 2014 and May 2021. Predictive factors of underlying atherosclerotic lesions were evaluated using univariate and multivariate analyses. In addition, treatment details and outcomes were evaluated and compared with those of other etiologies.
RESULTS: Among 322 included patients, 202 (62.7%) were males and 65 (20.2%) had underlying atherosclerotic lesions. Multivariate analysis identified dyslipidemia, lack of arterial fibrillation documented on admission, smoking, internal carotid artery lesions, and stenosis ≥ 25% in non-occluded large vessels as predictive factors of underlying atherosclerotic lesions. Regarding treatment for underlying atherosclerotic lesions, the need for percutaneous transluminal angioplasty, stent placement, medical therapy, and longer procedure time were observed, while successful reperfusion rates, favorable outcomes, and mortality rates showed no significant differences with those of other etiologies.
CONCLUSION: Coexisting diseases and radiological findings were useful for predicting underlying atherosclerotic lesions. Further understanding these characteristics may lead to the early detection of underlying atherosclerotic lesions, optimal treatment strategies, and better outcomes.

Citation: Kuribara T, et al. Preprocedural Prediction of Underlying Atherosclerotic Lesions in Cerebral Large-Vessel Occlusions: Clinical Backgrounds, Radiological Findings, and Treatment Outcomes. Preprocedural Prediction of Underlying Atherosclerotic Lesions in Cerebral Large-Vessel Occlusions: Clinical Backgrounds, Radiological Findings, and Treatment Outcomes. 2022; 29:1613-1624. doi: 10.5551/jat.63135

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34937834/
