PMID: 34948220
Title: Jmjd3 Mediates Neuropathic Pain by Inducing Macrophage Infiltration and Activation in Lumbar Spinal Stenosis Animal Model.

Abstract: Lumbar spinal stenosis (LSS) is a major cause of chronic neuropathic back and/or leg pain. Recently, we demonstrated that a significant number of macrophages infiltrated into the cauda equina after compression injury, causing neuroinflammation, and consequently mediating neuropathic pain development and/or maintenance. However, the molecular mechanisms underlying macrophage infiltration and activation have not been elucidated. Here, we demonstrated the critical role of histone H3K27 demethylase Jmjd3 in blood-nerve barrier dysfunction following macrophage infiltration and activation in LSS rats. The LSS rat model was induced by cauda equina compression using a silicone block within the epidural spaces of the L5-L6 vertebrae with neuropathic pain developing 4 weeks after compression. We found that Jmjd3 was induced in the blood vessels and infiltrated macrophages in a rat model of neuropathic pain. The blood-nerve barrier permeability in the cauda equina was increased after compression and significantly attenuated by the Jmjd3 demethylase inhibitor, GSK-J4. GSK-J4 also inhibited the expression and activation of MMP-2 and MMP-9 and significantly alleviated the loss of tight junction proteins and macrophage infiltration. Furthermore, the activation of a macrophage cell line, RAW 264.7, by LPS was significantly alleviated by GSK-J4. Finally, GSK-J4 and a potential Jmjd3 inhibitor, gallic acid, significantly inhibited mechanical allodynia in LSS rats. Thus, our findings suggest that Jmjd3 mediates neuropathic pain development and maintenance by inducing macrophage infiltration and activation after cauda equina compression and thus may serve as a potential therapeutic target for LSS-induced neuropathic pain.

Citation: Lee J, et al. Jmjd3 Mediates Neuropathic Pain by Inducing Macrophage Infiltration and Activation in Lumbar Spinal Stenosis Animal Model. Jmjd3 Mediates Neuropathic Pain by Inducing Macrophage Infiltration and Activation in Lumbar Spinal Stenosis Animal Model. 2021; 22:(unknown pages). doi: 10.3390/ijms222413426

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34948220/
