PMID: 34944719
Title: Antithrombotic Therapy in the Prevention of Stroke.

Abstract: OVERVIEW: Ischemic stroke is a leading cause of death and disability throughout the world. Antithrombotic therapy, which includes both antiplatelet and anticoagulant agents, is a primary medication of choice for the secondary prevention of stroke. However, the choices vary with the need to incorporate evolving, newer information into the clinical scenario. There is also the need to factor in co-morbid medical conditions as well as the cost ramifications for a particular patient as well as compliance with the regimen. Pertinent Updates: In the acute setting, dual antiplatelet therapy from three weeks to up to three months has become recognized as a reasonable approach for patients with either minor stroke or transient ischemic attack or those with symptoms associated with higher-grade intracranial stenosis. This approach is favored for non-cardioembolic stroke as a cardiogenic mechanism tends to be best managed with attention to the cardiac condition as well as anticoagulant therapy. Risk stratification for recurrent stroke is important in weighing potential risk versus benefits. For example, prolonged dual antiplatelet therapy, with a combination such as aspirin and clopidogrel or aspirin and ticagrelor, tends to have negation of the potential clinical benefit of stroke prevention, over time, by the enhanced bleeding risk. Anticoagulant choices are now impacted by newer agents, initially identified as novel oral anticoagulants (NOACs), which also became associated with "non-vitamin K" agents as they are no longer considered novel. Alternatively, they are now often identified as direct oral anticoagulants (DOACs). They tend to be viewed as superior or non-inferior to warfarin with the caveat that warfarin is still viewed as the agent of choice for stroke prevention in patients with mechanical heart valves.
CONCLUSION: Based upon cumulative information from multiple clinical trials of secondary prevention of stroke, there is an increasing array of approaches in an effort to provide optimal management. Antithrombotic therapy, including in combination with anticoagulant therapy, continues to evolve with the general caveat that "one size does not fit all". In view of this, we desire to provide an evidence-based approach for the prevention of stroke with antithrombotic agents.

Citation: Bir S and Kelley RE. Antithrombotic Therapy in the Prevention of Stroke. Antithrombotic Therapy in the Prevention of Stroke. 2021; 9:(unknown pages). doi: 10.3390/biomedicines9121906

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34944719/
