PMID: 34953737
Title: Can Transcatheter Aortic Valve Implantation (TAVI) Be Performed at Institutions Without On-Site Cardiac Surgery Departments?

Abstract: Transcatheter aortic valve implantation [TAVI] represents a paradigm shift in therapeutic options for patients with severe aortic stenosis [AS]. In less than 20 years, TAVI has rapidly disseminated to include a significant proportion of AS patients. The number of AS patients needing TAVI is expected to further increase. Since there is a limited number of centers performing TAVI, wait times are expected to increase. This might have a critical impact of AS patient life as mortality rate of AS patients awaiting TAVI, is substantial, ranging from 2 to 10%. With time, as more patients were treated, improved experience, better imaging and devices, this technology became safer with more reliable results. Today most TAVI complications are related to vascular access [4-6%] and there is less need for emergency thoracic bail out [0.2-0.5%]. In this review, we summarize the prognosis while waiting, the outcomes of patients undergoing TAVI at institutions without on-site cardiac surgery departments and the data describing rates and outcomes of TAVI patients requiring treatment of intra-procedural life-threatening complications. Similar to coronary interventions in the past, TAVI should be considered also in centers without on-site cardiac surgery departments under certain conditions such as, experienced operators, heart team discussion, well established imaging modalities, skilled and qualified support personal, and adequate pre- and post-care facility.

Citation: Kobo O, et al. Can Transcatheter Aortic Valve Implantation (TAVI) Be Performed at Institutions Without On-Site Cardiac Surgery Departments?. Can Transcatheter Aortic Valve Implantation (TAVI) Be Performed at Institutions Without On-Site Cardiac Surgery Departments?. 2022; 41:159-165. doi: 10.1016/j.carrev.2021.12.009

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34953737/
