PMID: 34958405
Title: Future liver remnant hypertrophy rate in portal vein embolization before left trisectionectomy: a retrospective cohort study.

Abstract: PURPOSE: Reports on the future liver remnant (FLR) hypertrophy rate in patients undergoing portal vein embolization (PVE) before left trisectionectomy are sparse. This study aimed to assess the FLR hypertrophy rate in patients undergoing PVE before left trisectionectomy.
METHODS: Between January 2010 and June 2021, 30 patients (22 men and eight women; mean age, 65.7 years) underwent PVE, mainly using gelatin sponge, before left trisectionectomy. The preoperative diagnosis was cholangiocarcinoma in 28 patients and colorectal liver metastases in two patients. The FLR hypertrophy rate, increase in the FLR volume (FLRV) ratio (the ratio of the FLRV to the total liver volume), and complications were evaluated. The patients were further divided into two groups: one group of patients with left portal vein stenosis or occlusion before PVE (n = 12) and another without left portal vein stenosis or occlusion before PVE (n = 18). The FLR hypertrophy rate and increase in the FLRV ratio were compared between the two groups.
RESULTS: The FLR hypertrophy rate and increase in the FLRV ratio were 31.3% and 6.9%, respectively. One major complication, cholangitis, developed; however, its association with PVE was unclear. The difference in the FLR hypertrophy rate and the increase in the FLRV ratio between the two groups of patients was statistically insignificant.
CONCLUSION: PVE before left trisectionectomy is effective in achieving FLR hypertrophy. PVE before left trisectionectomy was equally effective in patients with left portal vein stenosis or occlusion as compared to those without. The complication rates were acceptable.

Citation: Onishi Y, et al. Future liver remnant hypertrophy rate in portal vein embolization before left trisectionectomy: a retrospective cohort study. Future liver remnant hypertrophy rate in portal vein embolization before left trisectionectomy: a retrospective cohort study. 2022; 47:878-884. doi: 10.1007/s00261-021-03387-z

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34958405/
