PMID: 34951209
Title: [Research progress on Chinese medicinal material-derived active polypeptides against ischemic cardiovascular and cerebrovascular diseases].

Abstract: Ischemic cardiovascular and cerebrovascular diseases threatening human health and survival have high morbidity and mortality. The common cause of them is reduced blood supply caused by vascular stenosis, atherosclerosis, and infarction. However,the pathological processes of ischemic cardiovascular and cerebrovascular diseases are complex, involving oxidative stress, calcium overload, inflammation, apoptosis, autophagy and other mechanisms. Protein drugs such as recombinant tissue plasminogen activator(rt-PA) and urokinase have been proved with excellent therapeutic effects and huge economic and social benefits in the clinical treatment and interventional therapy. Among them, peptide drugs have shown unique advantages and potential prospects owing to their strong biological activity, high target specificity, biochemical diversity, and low toxicity. Chinese medicinal materials, characterized by multi-component and multi-target therapy, have also shown excellent clinical efficacy against ischemic cardiovascular and cerebrovascular diseases. However, the research and development of related peptides in Chinese medicinal materials is at the initial stage. Therefore, this paper reviewed the targets and action mechanisms of a variety of Chinese medicinal material-derived polypeptides with activities against ischemic cardiovascular and cerebrovascular diseases, aiming to provide support for the in-depth research as well as the clinical development and application of these polypeptides.

Citation: Wang AA, et al. [Research progress on Chinese medicinal material-derived active polypeptides against ischemic cardiovascular and cerebrovascular diseases]. [Research progress on Chinese medicinal material-derived active polypeptides against ischemic cardiovascular and cerebrovascular diseases]. 2021; 46:5576-5584. doi: 10.19540/j.cnki.cjcmm.20210823.701

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34951209/
