PMID: 34954442
Title: A Retrospective Analysis of the L3-L4 Disc and Spinopelvic Parameters on Outcomes in Thoracolumbar Fusion: Was Art Steffee Right?

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: To determine whether the L3-L4 disc angle may be a surrogate marker for global lumbar alignment in thoracolumbar fusion surgery and to explore the relationship between radiographic and patient-reported outcomes after thoracolumbar fusion surgery.
METHODS: Retrospective chart review was conducted on patients who had undergone a lumbar fusion involving levels from T9 to pelvis. EuroQol-Five Dimension (EQ-5D-3L) scores and adverse events including adjacent-segment disease and degeneration, pseudoarthrosis, proximal junctional kyphosis, stenosis, and reoperation were collected. Pre- and postoperative spinopelvic parameters were measured on weight-bearing radiographs, with the L3-L4 disc angle of novel interest. Univariate logistic and linear regression were performed to assess the associations of radiographic parameters with adverse event incidence and improvement in EQ-5D-3L, respectively.
RESULTS: In total, 182 patients met inclusion criteria. Univariable analysis revealed that increased magnitude of L3-L4 disc angle, anterior pelvic tilt, and pelvic incidence measures are associated with increased likelihood of developing postoperative adverse events. Conversely, increased lumbar lordosis demonstrated a decreased incidence of developing a postoperative adverse event. Linear regression showed that radiographic parameters did not significantly correlate with postoperative EQ-5D-3L scores, although scores were significantly improved postfusion in all dimensions except Self-Care (P = 0.51).
CONCLUSIONS: L3-L4 disc angle magnitude may serve as a surrogate marker of global lumbar alignment. The degree of spinopelvic alignment did not correlate to improvement in EQ-5D-3L score in the present study, suggesting that quality of life metric change may not be a sensitive or specific marker of postfusion alignment.

Citation: Kodsy MM, et al. A Retrospective Analysis of the L3-L4 Disc and Spinopelvic Parameters on Outcomes in Thoracolumbar Fusion: Was Art Steffee Right?. A Retrospective Analysis of the L3-L4 Disc and Spinopelvic Parameters on Outcomes in Thoracolumbar Fusion: Was Art Steffee Right?. 2022; 159:e399-e406. doi: 10.1016/j.wneu.2021.12.065

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34954442/
