PMID: 34954914
Title: High Prevalence of Metabolic Syndrome in Patients with Lumbar Spinal Stenosis: Association with Diabetes and Elevated Body Mass Index.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Lumbar spinal stenosis (LSS) is a narrowing of the lumbar canal causing lower back pain, gluteal pain, and neurogenic claudication. LSS has been associated with cardiovascular co-morbidities. Metabolic syndrome (MetS), a pro-inflammatory condition involving a cluster of risk factors for cardiovascular disease and diabetes, is increasingly prevalent worldwide.
OBJECTIVES: To evaluate the prevalence of MetS in patients with LSS, compared to age- and sex-matched healthy controls, and to explore potential associations between MetS and LSS-related clinical parameters and cardiovascular risk factors.
METHODS: We conducted a cross-sectional study including 64 patients diagnosed as symptomatic LSS (NASS criteria) and 32 controls. MetS was diagnosed using the 2009 Harmonizing criteria adjusted for South Americans. Multivariate logistic regression was used to identify independent risk factors for MetS. The level of statistical significance was set at 5.
RESULTS: The prevalence of MetS was significantly higher in the LSS group than in the control group (76.6% vs. 31.3%; P < 0.001). LSS patients displayed greater waist circumference (P = 0.003), blood glucose levels (P = 0.009) and arterial pressure (P < 0.001) than controls. The variables with independent influence on MetS in the logistic regression model were: diabetes (P = 0.008), blood glucose (P = 0.004), and body mass index (P = 0.005).
CONCLUSIONS: MetS was significantly more prevalent among LSS patients, and diabetes and elevated body mass index were found to be risk factors for MetS in these LSS patients.

Citation: Ferreira Mota Colares SP, et al. High Prevalence of Metabolic Syndrome in Patients with Lumbar Spinal Stenosis: Association with Diabetes and Elevated Body Mass Index. High Prevalence of Metabolic Syndrome in Patients with Lumbar Spinal Stenosis: Association with Diabetes and Elevated Body Mass Index. 2021; 23:766-772.

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34954914/
