PMID: 34967392
Title: Multimodal ultrasound imaging of persistent urogenital sinus with uterus didelphys and double vagina malformation: A case report.

Abstract: RATIONALE: Persistent urogenital sinus (PUG) with uterus didelphys and double vagina is a rare urogenital anomaly. The diagnosis is based on magnetic resonance examination and cystoscopy. To the best of our knowledge, there is no literature report of PUG diagnosed by ultrasound alone.
PATIENT CONCERN: A 23-year-old woman presented with atypical menstruation and recurrent hematuria for 13 years and recurrent lower abdominal pain for 12 years.
DIAGNOSIS: PUG was diagnosed through multiple ultrasound modalities, including transabdominal 2-dimensional ultrasound, transrectal bi-plane high-frequency ultrasound, and contrast-enhanced ultrasound. We diagnosed this malformation preoperatively by accurately measuring the length of urethra and common channel through multimodal ultrasound imaging.
INTERVENTIONS: Urethra separation and reconstruction, vaginal pull-through and artificial vaginoplasty, and bilateral hysterosalpingectomy were performed.
OUTCOMES: The postoperative course was uneventful. She was urinating normally after half a year and used continuous vaginal dilatation to avoid stenosis.
LESSONS: PUG associated with uterus didelphys and double vagina is an extremely rare malformation of the reproductive system. Multimodal ultrasound imaging can be used to diagnose this malformation preoperatively clearly and to accurately measure the length of urethra and common channel, providing an imaging basis for preparing an operative plan.

Citation: Wang Y, et al. Multimodal ultrasound imaging of persistent urogenital sinus with uterus didelphys and double vagina malformation: A case report. Multimodal ultrasound imaging of persistent urogenital sinus with uterus didelphys and double vagina malformation: A case report. 2021; 100:e28477. doi: 10.1097/MD.0000000000028477

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34967392/
