PMID: 34966864
Title: Risk Factors for Reoperation at Same Level after Decompression Surgery for Lumbar Spinal Stenosis in Patients with Diffuse Idiopathic Skeletal Hyperostosis Extended to the Lumbar Segments.

Abstract: INTRODUCTION: Diffuse idiopathic skeletal hyperostosis (DISH) extended to the lumbar segments (L-DISH) reportedly has adverse effects on the surgical outcomes of lumbar spinal stenosis (LSS). However, the risk factors in patients with L-DISH have not been clarified. The purpose of this study was to investigate the long-term risk factors for reoperation at the same level after decompression surgery alone for LSS in patients with L-DISH in a retrospective cohort study.
METHODS: A postoperative postal survey was sent to 1,150 consecutive patients who underwent decompression surgery alone for LSS from 2002 to 2010. Among all respondents, patients who exhibited L-DISH by preoperative total spine X-ray were included in this study. We investigated risk factors for reoperation at the same level as the initial surgery among various demographic and radiological parameters, including the lumbar ossification condition and computed tomography (CT) or magnetic resonance imaging findings.
RESULTS: A total of 57 patients were analyzed. Reoperations at the same level as that of the index surgery were performed in 10 patients (17.5%) and at 11 levels within a mean of 9.2 years. Cox proportional hazard regression analysis indicated that the independent risk factors for reoperation were a sagittal rotation angle ≥10° (adjusted hazard ratio: 5.17) and facet opening on CT (adjusted hazard ratio: 4.82). Neither sagittal translation nor the ossification condition in the lumbar segments affected reoperations.
CONCLUSIONS: A sagittal rotation angle ≥10° and facet opening on preoperative CT were risk factors for reoperation at the same level as that of the index surgery in patients with L-DISH. The surgical strategy should be carefully considered in those patients.

Citation: Yamada K, et al. Risk Factors for Reoperation at Same Level after Decompression Surgery for Lumbar Spinal Stenosis in Patients with Diffuse Idiopathic Skeletal Hyperostosis Extended to the Lumbar Segments. Risk Factors for Reoperation at Same Level after Decompression Surgery for Lumbar Spinal Stenosis in Patients with Diffuse Idiopathic Skeletal Hyperostosis Extended to the Lumbar Segments. 2021; 5:381-389. doi: 10.22603/ssrr.2020-0227

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34966864/
