PMID: 34968983
Title: Bilateral house advancement flap anoplasty for severe anal stenosis secondary to traditional medicine application with excellent outcome: "Case report".

Abstract: INTRODUCTION AND IMPORTANCE: Anal stenosis is narrowing of anal canal that may result from true anatomic stricture or functional stenosis. Anal stenosis from irritant chemical application for hemorrhoid is rare and tends to be more severe. There is scarcity of data in the literature regarding anal stenosis secondary to traditional medicine application for the treatment of hemorrhoid. This case report can create awareness to promote health education and health advancement, especially in areas with wide spread use of traditional medicine. In addition, it can motivate general surgeons to prepare themselves to handle such cases in the absence of colorectal surgeons.
PRESENTATION OF THE CASE: A 75 years old male farmer presented with worsening of difficulty of passing feces and flatus and intermittent abdominal distention of 3 months. The patient has history of application of irritant chemical by traditional healer for treatment of hemorrhoid. Physical examination led to diagnosis of severe anal stenosis. Bilateral house advancement flap anoplasty done by a general surgeon with excellent result.
DISCUSSION: The commonest cause of anal stenosis is hemorrhoidectomy. Other causes include other anorectal surgeries, anorectal diseases, and radiotherapy. Diagnosis of anal stenosis is by physical examination. Treatment is conservative for mild cases and advancement flap anoplasty for moderate to severe cases.
CONCLUSION: Health education and health advancement can create awareness, hence preventing people from having wrong treatments. House advancement flap anoplasty is a good option for the treatment of anal stenosis in resource limited setup, as it is easy to do and has good outcome.

Citation: Bejiga G. Bilateral house advancement flap anoplasty for severe anal stenosis secondary to traditional medicine application with excellent outcome: "Case report". Bilateral house advancement flap anoplasty for severe anal stenosis secondary to traditional medicine application with excellent outcome: "Case report". 2022; 90:106725. doi: 10.1016/j.ijscr.2021.106725

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34968983/
