PMID: 34963850
Title: Laryngeal Manifestation of Nodular Fasciitis: A Case Report and Literature Review.

Abstract: Nodular fasciitis (NF) are non-neoplastic, fibroblastic lesions, typically located on the trunk and the extremities. The incidence of NF in the head and neck region is 13%-20%. However, a manifestation in the larynx of adult patients is extremely rare. Therefore, the occurrence of NF in this region can lead to diagnostic challenges and a high risk of misdiagnosis as well as potential mishandling when not aware of its possible laryngeal manifestation. Following emergency admission of a 41-year-old woman to the emergency department (ED) due to progressive dyspnea and inspiratory stridor a transnasal flexible laryngeal endoscopic examination revealed a left-lateral, subglottic mass. A subsequently performed CT demonstrated a 2.2 cm x 1.5 cm sized lesion of the subglottic larynx with profound stenosis of the lumen (Myer-Cotton grade III), no extraluminal extension, and no distant metastases. Histopathological processing of a tissue sample obtained by microlaryngoscopy and translaryngeal tracheoscopy revealed a spindle-cell lesion with immunohistochemical and molecular-pathogenic profile of NF. After tumor debulking and steroid infiltration (triamcinolone), a regrowth tendency quickly became apparent, which is why a tracheostomy had to be performed. Laryngectomy was rejected by the patient. After multiple transoral tumor reduction attempts, radiotherapy was performed according to an interdisciplinary tumor board decision to limit regrowth tendency. Subsequently, a substantial reduction of the tumor volume could be seen, although a discreet stenosis of the subglottic tracheal lumen persists in the follow-up. Laryngeal NF poses several challenges due to its rare occurrence in this location. This case report emphasizes the knowledge of this differential diagnosis and also depicts an interdisciplinary therapeutic approach aiming for function-preserving treatment of this benign but potentially relapsing pathology.

Citation: Stadlhofer R, et al. Laryngeal Manifestation of Nodular Fasciitis: A Case Report and Literature Review. Laryngeal Manifestation of Nodular Fasciitis: A Case Report and Literature Review. 2021; 13:e19836. doi: 10.7759/cureus.19836

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34963850/
