PMID: 34967464
Title: Free-breathing three-dimensional isotropic-resolution MR sequence for simultaneous vessel wall imaging of bilateral renal arteries and abdominal aorta: Feasibility and reproducibility.

Abstract: PURPOSE: Many diseases can simultaneously involve renal arteries and the adjacent abdominal aorta. This study proposed a free-breathing three-dimensional (3D) isotropic-resolution magnetic resonance sequence for simultaneous vessel wall imaging (VWI) of bilateral renal arteries and adjacent abdominal aorta.
METHODS: A respiratory-triggered isotropic-resolution sequence that combined the improved motion-sensitized driven-equilibrium (iMSDE) preparation with the spoiled gradient recalled (SPGR) readout (iMSDE-SPGR) was proposed for simultaneous VWI of renal arteries and abdominal aorta. The proposed iMSDE-SPGR sequence was optimized by positioning spatial saturation pulses (i.e., REST slabs) elaborately to further alleviate respiratory and gastrointestinal motion artifacts and selecting appropriate first-order gradient moment (m<sub>1</sub> ) of the iMSDE preparation. Thirteen healthy subjects and 13 patients with renal artery stenosis underwent simultaneous VWI with the optimized iMSDE-SPGR sequence at 3.0 T. Signal-to-noise ratio (SNR), contrast-to-noise ratio (CNR), and morphology of renal arterial wall and aortic wall were measured. Reproducibility of intra-observer, inter-observer, and scan-rescan (n = 13 healthy subjects) in measuring SNR, CNR, and morphology was evaluated. For the reproducibility test, the agreement was determined using intraclass correlation coefficients (ICC), and the differences were compared using paired t-test or nonparametric Wilcoxon test when appropriate. Bland-Altman plots were used to calculate the bias between observers and between scans.
RESULTS: The proposed iMSDE-SPGR sequence was feasible for simultaneous VWI both in the healthy subjects and the patients. The sequence showed good to excellent inter-observer (ICC: 0.615-0.999), excellent intra-observer (ICC: 0.801-0.998), and scan-rescan (ICC: 0.768-0.998) reproducibility in measuring morphology, SNR, and CNR. There were no significant differences in SNR, CNR, and morphology measurements between observers and between scans (all p > 0.05). Bland-Altman plots showed small bias in assessing SNR, CNR, and morphology.
DATA CONCLUSION: The proposed free-breathing 3D isotropic-resolution iMSDE-SPGR technique is feasible and reproducible for simultaneous VWI of bilateral renal arteries and adjacent abdominal aorta.

Citation: Ning Z, et al. Free-breathing three-dimensional isotropic-resolution MR sequence for simultaneous vessel wall imaging of bilateral renal arteries and abdominal aorta: Feasibility and reproducibility. Free-breathing three-dimensional isotropic-resolution MR sequence for simultaneous vessel wall imaging of bilateral renal arteries and abdominal aorta: Feasibility and reproducibility. 2022; 49:854-864. doi: 10.1002/mp.15436

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34967464/
