PMID: 34972003
Title: Endoscopic treatment of paediatric subglottic stenosis and cyst (with video).

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: The aim of this article is to describe step by step the endoscopic treatment of acquired subglottic stenosis (SGS) in an infant and to show the endoscopic results one month after surgery.
STUDY DESIGN: Case presentation with instructional video.
SETTING: University Hospital of Verona, Italy.
METHODS: We present the case of a 6-month-old ex-26-week preterm female infant who required prolonged intubation in the neonatal period. She referred to our hospital for persistent inspiratory and expiratory stridor, and laboured breathing. The endoscopic dynamic examination of upper airway revealed the presence of type 3 laryngomalacia and subglottic stenosis grade III according to Myers-Cotton classification. An endoscopic balloon laryngoplasty was planned. Two laryngeal dilatations were performed. The endoscopic exploration after the first dilatation showed the presence of a subglottic cyst on the anterior surface of the subglottis. The treatment of subglottic cyst consisted of marsupialization of the cyst with cold microinstruments, and subsequent suction of its content.
RESULTS: An endoscopic check-up was carried out one month after surgery. The examination of the upper airway under spontaneous respiration didn't show significant subglottic stenosis. A very small subglottic cyst under the anterior commissure was observed. However, no more balloon dilatations or marsupialization of the cyst were performed in order to avoid the formation of synechiae.
CONCLUSION: Treatment of SGS must be planned according to the extent of the stenosis and the history of the patient. Endoscopic procedures, such as balloon dilatation and cyst marsupialization, are best chosen for patients with isolated SGS without prior treatment failure.

Citation: Soloperto D, et al. Endoscopic treatment of paediatric subglottic stenosis and cyst (with video). Endoscopic treatment of paediatric subglottic stenosis and cyst (with video). 2022; 43:103280. doi: 10.1016/j.amjoto.2021.103280

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34972003/
