PMID: 34973440
Title: Spinous-Process-Splitting Versus Conventional Decompression for Lumbar Spinal Stenosis: Comparative Study with Respect to Short-Term Postoperative Pain and Analgesics Use.

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: Several microsurgical techniques are available for the decompression of lumbar spinal stenosis (LSS). More recently, a spinous process-splitting laminectomy (SPSL) technique was introduced, with the premise of diminishing paraspinal muscle damage. This study aims to compare the neurologic and functional outcomes, as well as the differences in early postoperative pain and analgesic use during hospitalization after conventional decompression (CD) versus SPSL surgery for LSS.
METHODS: Single-center retrospective analysis of all spinal decompression procedures (CD or SPSL) that were performed or supervised by one consulting spine surgeon, performed for LSS between 2015 and 2020. Preoperative neurologic symptoms, functional outcomes, as well as perioperative analgesic use and reported pain scales during hospitalization were analyzed.
RESULTS: From a total of 106 patients, 58 were treated using CD and 48 using SPSL. In both groups, around one-third of the patients were taking opiates preoperatively (38% for CD, 31% for SPSL). Patients submitted to SPSL reported more pain on first postoperative day but significantly less pain in the further postoperative course (day 3 numeric rating scale [NRS] 2.4 vs. 3.4, P = 0.03 and on day 5 NRS 2.5 vs. 3.7, P = 0.009). Equal or less cumulative doses of analgesics were administered postoperatively (significantly less paracetamol on day 5 compared with CD; P = 0.013). Both groups showed a similarly favorable outcome in terms of improved mobility and there were no significant differences between complications and re-stenosis rates between both techniques.
CONCLUSIONS: Patients treated with SPSL technique for LSS showed an equivalent favorable functional outcome compared to CD. However, SPSL patients showed significantly less subacute postoperative pain while using equal amounts or fewer analgesics postoperatively.

Citation: Voglis S, et al. Spinous-Process-Splitting Versus Conventional Decompression for Lumbar Spinal Stenosis: Comparative Study with Respect to Short-Term Postoperative Pain and Analgesics Use. Spinous-Process-Splitting Versus Conventional Decompression for Lumbar Spinal Stenosis: Comparative Study with Respect to Short-Term Postoperative Pain and Analgesics Use. 2022; 160:e80-e87. doi: 10.1016/j.wneu.2021.12.094

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34973440/
