PMID: 34979668
Title: Risk Factors, Recurrence and Short-Term Outcomes for Progressive Cerebral Infarction: A Retrospective Study.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Only a few studies have investigated the risk factors for the prognosis of progressive cerebral infarction (PCI) and the relationship between PCI and cerebral infarction (CI) recurrence.
OBJECTIVE: The objective of this study is to analyze the risk factors for PCI and PCI prognosis and evaluate the relationship between PCI and CI recurrence, mortality, short-term outcomes.
METHODS: The retrospective study included 221 CI patients. PCI and non-PCI patients were divided into the observation (91) and control (130) groups, respectively. Patients' clinical data, including diabetes history, laboratory blood indices, National Institutes of Health Stroke Scale (NIHSS) scores at admission, and presence of carotid and intracranial artery stenoses, were retrospectively analyzed. Instances of CI recurrence, adverse short-term outcomes, and death within 1 year postanalysis were recorded.
RESULTS: Diabetes, homocysteine, NIHSS score at admission, fibrinogen, and intracranial artery stenosis were associated with PCI. Age, NIHSS score at admission, and pneumonia were associated with PCI prognosis. By 12-month follow-up, the mortality and adverse outcome rate in the observation group were significantly increased than those of the control group. There was no diference in CI recurrence rates between the groups. Adverse outcomes were associated with PCI, age, and homocysteine.
CONCLUSIONS: PCI risk factors included diabetes, homocysteine, NIHSS score at admission, fibrinogen, and intracranial artery stenosis. The independent risk factors for PCI prognosis included age, high NIHSS score at admission, and pneumonia. PCI did not affect CI recurrence but may affect adverse short-term outcomes.

Citation: Wang Y, et al. Risk Factors, Recurrence and Short-Term Outcomes for Progressive Cerebral Infarction: A Retrospective Study. Risk Factors, Recurrence and Short-Term Outcomes for Progressive Cerebral Infarction: A Retrospective Study. 2021; 69:1675-1681. doi: 10.4103/0028-3886.333493

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34979668/
