PMID: 34982901
Title: Encephaloduroarteriosynangiosis Operative Technique and Intraoperative Anesthesia Management: Treatment From Both Sides of the Curtain.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Encephaloduroarteriosynangiosis (EDAS) is a form of indirect revascularization for cerebral arterial steno-occlusive disorders. EDAS has gained growing interest as a technique applicable to pediatric and adult populations for several types of ischemic cerebral steno-occlusive conditions.
OBJECTIVE: To present a team-oriented, multidisciplinary update of the EDAS technique for application in challenging adult cases of cerebrovascular stenosis/occlusion, successfully implemented in more than 200 cases.
METHODS: We describe and demonstrate step-by-step a multidisciplinary-modified EDAS technique, adapted to maintain uninterrupted intensive medical management of patients' stroke risk factors and anesthesia protocols to maintain strict hemodynamic control.
RESULTS: A total of 216 EDAS surgeries were performed in 164 adult patients, including 65 surgeries for patients with intracranial atherosclerotic disease and 151 operations in 99 patients with moyamoya disease. Five patients with intracranial atherosclerotic disease had recurrent strokes (3%), and there was one perioperative death. The mean clinical follow-up was 32.9 mo with a standard deviation of 31.1. There was one deviation from the surgical protocol. There were deviations from the anesthesia protocol in 3 patients (0.01%), which were promptly corrected and did not have any clinical impact on the patients' condition.
CONCLUSION: The EDAS protocol described here implements a team-oriented, multidisciplinary adaptation of the EDAS technique. This adaptation resides mainly in 3 points: (1) uninterrupted administration of intensive medical management, (2) strict hemodynamic control during anesthesia, and (3) meticulous standardized surgical technique.

Citation: Chan JL, et al. Encephaloduroarteriosynangiosis Operative Technique and Intraoperative Anesthesia Management: Treatment From Both Sides of the Curtain. Encephaloduroarteriosynangiosis Operative Technique and Intraoperative Anesthesia Management: Treatment From Both Sides of the Curtain. 2022; 22:20-27. doi: 10.1227/ONS.0000000000000009

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34982901/
