PMID: 34988762
Title: The diagnostic accuracy of ultrasound and upper gastrointestinal contrast studies for locating atresia/stenosis and intestinal malrotation and detecting annular pancreas in pediatric patients with duodenal atresia/stenosis.

Abstract: PURPOSE: This study aimed to evaluate the diagnostic performance of ultrasound to locate atresia/stenosis and other abdominal anomalies in pediatric patients with duodenal atresia/stenosis, including intestinal malrotation and annular pancreas.
METHODS: We classified 36 retrospective cases of duodenal atresia/stenosis based on intestinal malrotation status, and evaluated the diagnostic performance of ultrasound/upper gastrointestinal contrast studies to locate atresia/stenosis and intestinal malrotation, as well as ultrasound for detecting additional anomalies such as annular pancreas. The incidence of annular pancreas was compared between groups using Fisher's exact test.
RESULTS: Atresia/stenosis was correctly located by ultrasound in 33 (91.7%) cases and by upper gastrointestinal contrast study in 36 (100%) cases. Of the eight cases with intestinal malrotation, five and two were correctly diagnosed by ultrasound and upper gastrointestinal contrast study, respectively. Ultrasound correctly diagnosed annular pancreas in 6/14 cases. The incidence of annular pancreas was significantly different between the groups (present/absent in groups with vs. without intestinal malrotation: 6/2 vs. 8/20, P = 0.036).
CONCLUSIONS: Ultrasound has a relatively high capability in locating atresia/stenosis. However, some cases are misdiagnosed. In clinical practice, upper gastrointestinal contrast studies should be used complementarily during diagnosis. Additional anomalies may not be detected by preoperative examinations; therefore, surgeons should carefully evaluate for additional anomalies during surgery, especially coexisting intestinal malrotation and annular pancreas.

Citation: Hosokawa T, et al. The diagnostic accuracy of ultrasound and upper gastrointestinal contrast studies for locating atresia/stenosis and intestinal malrotation and detecting annular pancreas in pediatric patients with duodenal atresia/stenosis. The diagnostic accuracy of ultrasound and upper gastrointestinal contrast studies for locating atresia/stenosis and intestinal malrotation and detecting annular pancreas in pediatric patients with duodenal atresia/stenosis. 2022; 49:299-309. doi: 10.1007/s10396-021-01176-1

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34988762/
