PMID: 34986343
Title: Doppler Echocardiographic Features of Pulmonary Vein Stenosis in Ex-Preterm Children.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Echocardiography is used to screen for the presence of pulmonary vein stenosis (PVS) in ex-preterm infants and children. However, there are no standard accepted criteria for screening or diagnosis of PVS by echocardiography. The aim of this study was to identify Doppler waveform features and Doppler systolic and diastolic velocity cutoff values associated with a diagnosis of PVS by cardiac catheterization.
METHODS: In this retrospective observational study, the echocardiograms of ex-preterm children <3 years old who underwent cardiac catheterization at a single institution were reviewed. PVS on cardiac catheterization was defined by a mean pressure gradient of >3 mm Hg in the pulmonary vein, with angiographic evidence of stenosis. Pulmonary vein Doppler waveforms, from echocardiograms obtained before catheterization, in children with and without PVS were compared. Nonstenosed veins in patients with PVS were excluded. The systolic and diastolic velocities of blood flow, phasic flow, and return of the Doppler waveform to baseline were analyzed.
RESULTS: Forty-seven children were analyzed in the study, 18 children with 25 stenosed pulmonary veins and 29 children with 78 nonstenosed pulmonary veins. Stenosed pulmonary veins had higher peak systolic and diastolic velocities and higher peak and mean pressure gradients as measured by spectral Doppler. Peak systolic and diastolic velocities had areas under the receiver operating characteristic curve of 0.89 (95% CI, 0.79-0.99) and 0.93 (95% CI, 0.85-0.99) for PVS, respectively, and a threshold velocity of 0.7 m/sec had sensitivity of 80% and 84% and specificity of 94%. There was no correlation between Doppler-derived pulmonary vein mean gradient and measured pulmonary vein mean gradient during cardiac catheterization in stenosed pulmonary veins. Presence of phasic flow in the pulmonary vein and return of the Doppler waveform to baseline were associated with a nonstenosed pulmonary vein (sensitivity of 94% and 60% and specificity of 52% and 60%, respectively).
CONCLUSIONS: Systolic and diastolic Doppler velocities and features of the waveform can discriminate stenosed pulmonary veins confirmed by cardiac catheterization in ex-preterm children. These results suggest the use of lower systolic and diastolic Doppler velocity cutoff values than currently published to screen for PVS in ex-preterm children. These cutoff values require validation in prospective studies.

Citation: Lin Y, et al. Doppler Echocardiographic Features of Pulmonary Vein Stenosis in Ex-Preterm Children. Doppler Echocardiographic Features of Pulmonary Vein Stenosis in Ex-Preterm Children. 2022; 35:435-442. doi: 10.1016/j.echo.2021.12.015

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34986343/
