PMID: 34990431
Title: Image Navigation Surgery With the Fluorescent Ureteral Catheter of Recurrent Tumors in the Pelvic Cavity.

Abstract: INTRODUCTION: Ureteral injury during pelvic surgery is a serious complication that requires special attention. The fluorescent ureteral catheter near-infrared ray catheter sets are 6.0F catheters containing fluorescent substances along their length that can be recognized by a laparoscopic indocyanine green camera. We present our experience using a near-infrared ray catheter in 6 consecutive patients who underwent surgery for recurrent pelvic tumors.
TECHNIQUE: The near-infrared ray catheters were inserted into the bilateral ureters in all patients, with the exception of patient 5 (left unilateral), by urologists using a cystoscope with the same technique as that commonly used in placing ureteral stents under general anesthesia. A laparoscopic indocyanine green camera was adapted to identify the ureters. From February 2020 to July 2020, 6 consecutive patients with recurrent pelvic tumors underwent surgery using a near-infrared ray catheter. In 3 patients, recurrent tumors were detected in the pelvic cavity after surgery for colon cancer (1 patient each of peritoneal recurrence behind the seminal vesicles, lymph node metastasis on the residual superior rectal artery, and peritoneal recurrence at the peritoneal reflection). Two patients had postoperative local recurrences of rectal cancer. The last patient had a recurrence of cervical carcinoma invading the rectum.
RESULTS: All patients underwent surgery under ureteral image navigation using near-infrared ray catheter not only for ureter preservation during the operation (4 patients) but also for the combined resection of the ureter with recurrent tumors (2 patients). One patient experienced postoperative ureteral stenosis on postoperative day 21 that required a ureteral double J-stent placement in the left ureter.
CONCLUSION: Near-infrared ray catheter has the potential to reduce inadvertent periureteral dissection because the ureter can be identified before approaching it.

Citation: Hamada M, et al. Image Navigation Surgery With the Fluorescent Ureteral Catheter of Recurrent Tumors in the Pelvic Cavity. Image Navigation Surgery With the Fluorescent Ureteral Catheter of Recurrent Tumors in the Pelvic Cavity. 2022; 65:e72-e76. doi: 10.1097/DCR.0000000000002144

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34990431/
