PMID: 34996653
Title: Non-invasive Detection of Diffuse Intracranial Vertebrobasilar Artery Stenosis: A Prospective Comparison with Digital Subtraction Angiography.

Abstract: The aim of this study was to prospectively evaluate diffuse intracranial vertebrobasilar artery stenosis by ultrasonic examination with digital subtraction angiography as the reference. Five hundred forty-one vertebrobasilar arteries with a normal lumen or intracranial stenosis were enrolled. Peak systolic velocity, mean flow velocity and end-diastolic velocity (EDV) at the intracranial vertebrobasilar arteries and extracranial vertebral arteries (VAs) were measured. The resistance index (RI) at extracranial VAs and the difference between the RI of extracranial VAs and the RI of the extracranial internal carotid artery (RI<sub>ica</sub>) were calculated. Compared with normal arteries, all stenotic arteries were divided into the high-velocity group (focal stenosis, multiple-segment stenosis and multiple-artery stenosis) and low-velocity group (critical stenosis and long stenosis). The consistency between ultrasonic examination and digital subtraction angiography for evaluation of vertebrobasilar arteries with multiple-segment stenosis and multiple-artery stenosis was not favorable when applying the widely used Stroke Outcomes and Neuroimaging of Intracranial Atherosclerosis criteria (κ = 0.442 and 0.438, respectively). The optimal low-velocity criteria for identifying intracranial vertebrobasilar arteries with critical stenosis and long stenosis were determined by receiver operating characteristic curve analysis and were as follows: EDV ≤15 cm/s and RI ≥0.68 at the extracranial VA and RIica ≥0.10.

Citation: Zhang J, et al. Non-invasive Detection of Diffuse Intracranial Vertebrobasilar Artery Stenosis: A Prospective Comparison with Digital Subtraction Angiography. Non-invasive Detection of Diffuse Intracranial Vertebrobasilar Artery Stenosis: A Prospective Comparison with Digital Subtraction Angiography. 2022; 48:554-564. doi: 10.1016/j.ultrasmedbio.2021.11.015

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34996653/
