PMID: 34993095
Title: Evaluation of comprehensive myocardial contractility in children with Kawasaki disease by cardiac magnetic resonance in a large single center.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Children with Kawasaki disease (KD) and coronary artery lesions (CALs) can develop myocardial ischemia, fibrosis, and abnormal contractility. We aimed to assess the association between myocardial mechanical deformation with myocardial fibrosis, ischemia, and CALs.
METHODS: In total, 76 KD and 20 healthy volunteers received cardiac magnetic resonance (CMR). Peak systolic left ventricular (LV) longitudinal, radial, and circumferential strain and strain rate [LV strain longitudinal (LVSL), LV strain radial (LVSR), LV strain circumferential (LVSC), LV strain rate longitudinal (LVSRL), LV strain rate radial (LVSRR), and LV strain rate circumferential (LVSRC)], along with late gadolinium enhancement (LGE), perfusion deficit, and CALs in related segments were analyzed. The KD group was subdivided by CALs, perfusion, and LGE results, and strain results were compared with controls and in subgroups.
RESULTS: Cardiac fibrosis and ischemia were not confined to the territory of CALs. In a global analysis, strain and strain rates were lower in the KD group, especially in the subgroup with LGE and perfusion deficit. In segmental analysis, LVSR, LVSC, LVSL, and LVSRR decreased in the giant aneurysm group, and a lower LVSR (20.369%±10.603% vs. 26.071%±12.349%) and LVSC (-13.37%±5.365% vs. -15.847%±5.778%) were observed in thrombosed segments. The strain and strain rate were all lower in segments with LGE and perfusion deficit, and no obvious difference was found between groups with and without stenosis. LVSR had a better ability to identify giant aneurysm, thrombosis, stenosis, perfusion deficit, and LGE.
CONCLUSIONS: We detected lower strain values in KD patients, which was more pronounced in segments with aneurysm, thrombi, LGE, and perfusion deficit. LVSR is useful to discern patients with higher risk.

Citation: Yao Q, et al. Evaluation of comprehensive myocardial contractility in children with Kawasaki disease by cardiac magnetic resonance in a large single center. Evaluation of comprehensive myocardial contractility in children with Kawasaki disease by cardiac magnetic resonance in a large single center. 2022; 12:481-492. doi: 10.21037/qims-20-1402

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34993095/
