PMID: 34991051
Title: Difficult to treat esophageal perforation after endoscopic balloon dilation for stenosis due to endoscopic submucosal dissection followed by chemoradiotherapy: A case report.

Abstract: INTRODUCTION AND IMPORTANCE: There is no clear consensus on a specific treatment for esophageal perforation. The surgical approach is deemed necessary for local severe infection and pleural contamination requiring debridement.
PRESENTATIONS OF CASE: We have reported herein the case of a patient with esophageal perforation with severe mediastinal and thoracic abscess after endoscopic balloon dilation for stenosis due to endoscopic submucosal dissection and chemoradiotherapy. A surgical approach with primary closure was performed, but not found effective; while conservative treatment with mediastinal drainage via posterior neck and recovery of nutritional status was found to be effective. For the recovery of nutritional status, enteral nutrition was assessed using a polymeric formula through a percutaneous endoscopic gastrojejunostomy tube.
DISCUSSION: Esophageal perforation is a life-threatening condition. Iatrogenic injuries are the frequent cause of esophageal perforation. For esophageal perforation, not only surgical interventions but also conservative treatments including various endoscopic approaches have been performed. If the inflammation is not localized, surgical intervention is often needed; however, if the patient's general condition is stable, conservative treatment with drainage, antibiotics, and nutritional management may be considered, even in cases of esophageal perforation.
CONCLUSIONS: Esophageal perforation with a large perforation site with widespread inflammation can be improved with proper thoracic and mediastinal drainage and adequate nutrition support if the patient's condition is mild.

Citation: Kitahama T, et al. Difficult to treat esophageal perforation after endoscopic balloon dilation for stenosis due to endoscopic submucosal dissection followed by chemoradiotherapy: A case report. Difficult to treat esophageal perforation after endoscopic balloon dilation for stenosis due to endoscopic submucosal dissection followed by chemoradiotherapy: A case report. 2022; 90:106728. doi: 10.1016/j.ijscr.2021.106728

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34991051/
