PMID: 34991841
Title: Optical Coherence Tomographic Features of Pancoronary Plaques in Patients With Acute Myocardial Infarction Caused by Layered Plaque Rupture Versus Layered Plaque Erosion.

Abstract: Atherosclerotic plaque instability could occur on the basis of healed plaque which has a layered appearance on optical coherence tomography. This study aimed to investigate pancoronary plaque features of layered plaque rupture (LPR) and layered plaque erosion (LPE) in patients with acute myocardial infarction. Among 388 patients with acute myocardial infarction who underwent preintervention optical coherence tomography imaging of three coronary arteries, 190 patients with layered culprit plaque (49.0%) were identified and further divided into 2 groups: LPR group and LPE group. Clinical characteristics, pancoronary plaque features and clinical outcomes were compared between the 2 groups. Patients with LPR were older, less often male and current smoker, and had a lower coronary flow grade than those with LPE. At the culprit lesion, LPR group had a higher prevalence of lipid plaque, thin-cap fibroatheroma (TCFA), macrophage, and microchannel, and presented with more severe lumen area stenosis than LPE group. At nonculprit lesions, LPR group had a higher prevalence of TCFA and had greater layered tissue thickness and area than LPE group. The ischemia-driven revascularization rate was higher in LPR group. Moreover, we found that TCFA, diameter stenosis >56.5%, and mean lipid arc >179.1° were predictors for layered culprit plaque. In conclusion, patients with LPR had more vulnerable plaque features at culprit and nonculprit lesions and had higher incidence of ischemia-driven revascularization than those with LPE. TCFA, diameter stenosis >56.5%, and mean lipid arc >179.1° were predictors of layered culprit plaque.

Citation: Yin Y, et al. Optical Coherence Tomographic Features of Pancoronary Plaques in Patients With Acute Myocardial Infarction Caused by Layered Plaque Rupture Versus Layered Plaque Erosion. Optical Coherence Tomographic Features of Pancoronary Plaques in Patients With Acute Myocardial Infarction Caused by Layered Plaque Rupture Versus Layered Plaque Erosion. 2022; 167:35-42. doi: 10.1016/j.amjcard.2021.11.051

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34991841/
