PMID: 34994254
Title: Same same, but different? The neurological presentation of wildtype transthyretin (ATTRwt) amyloidosis.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Both hereditary transthyretin (ATTRv) amyloidosis and wildtype transthyretin (ATTRwt) amyloidosis can be associated with neurological diseases such as carpal tunnel syndrome and polyneuropathy. While ATTRv amyloidosis has been extensively studied, to date little is known about neurological complications of ATTRwt amyloidosis. In particular, the prevalence, pattern and extent of polyneuropathy and autonomic dysfunction has not been adequately investigated in the context of ATTRwt amyloidosis. To tackle this issue, we aimed to characterise the neurological presentation of ATTRwt amyloidosis and to compare between the presentations of ATTRv and ATTRwt amyloidoses.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Between November 2019 and September 2020, we included 50 patients with ATTRwt amyloidosis in this cohort study. All patients presented to the amyloidosis centre in Berlin, Germany and underwent neurological, cardiological and radiological work-up including neurological examination, laboratory testing, nerve conduction studies (NCS), echocardiography and scintigraphy. Patients were screened for symptoms of autonomic dysregulation and a subgroup of patients underwent tilt-table testing for orthostatic dysregulation.
RESULTS: The cohort included 46 men and 4 women; the mean age of the study participants was 80.6 (standard deviation [SD] ± 5.0) years. All patients showed signs of cardiomyopathy on echocardiography. Neurological examination revealed peripheral, symmetric and length-depended predominately sensory polyneuropathy in 74% (n = 37) of patients. Neuropathy impairment scores (NIS) ranged from 0 to 50 with an average score of 8.4 (SD ± 10.1) indicating mild to moderate impairment. 90% and 92% of patients were classified as FAP stage I and PND stage I, respectively. Unilateral or bilateral carpal tunnel syndrome (CTS) was present in 70% (n = 35) and spinal stenosis was seen in 11% (n = 5) of patients. We detected a low rate of autonomic symptoms with a median COMPASS-31 total score of 18.4 points (IQR 32.4 points). Additional tilt-table testing of a subgroup of 8 patients yielded negative results for orthostatic intolerance.
CONCLUSION: Distal-symmetric, predominantly sensory polyneuropathy is a common neurological complication in ATTRwt amyloidosis besides carpal tunnel syndrome and spinal stenosis, further substantiating the systemic character of the disease. Compared to ATTRv amyloidosis, the severity of polyneuropathy in ATTRwt amyloidosis is milder and without relevant motor involvement. Symptoms of autonomic dysfunction were not common in this cohort. Nevertheless, ATTRwt amyloidosis is a treatable disease and should be included in the differential diagnosis of sensory polyneuropathy in the elderly.

Citation: Kleefeld F, et al. Same same, but different? The neurological presentation of wildtype transthyretin (ATTRwt) amyloidosis. Same same, but different? The neurological presentation of wildtype transthyretin (ATTRwt) amyloidosis. 2022; 29:92-101. doi: 10.1080/13506129.2021.2014448

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34994254/
