PMID: 35001732
Title: Internal jugular to internal jugular vein bypass of symptomatic central vein obstruction.

Abstract: INTRODUCTION: Central venous obstruction (CVO) often arises among hemodialysis patients with upper extremity access due to a varying number of risk factors. While the true incidence of CVO in hemodialysis patients is unknown, it been reported in the range of 20%-40% in dialysis patients undergoing venograms. In the non-hemodialysis population, chronic central vein obstruction has a compensatory mechanism comprised of numerous collaterals along the chest wall, neck, and mediastinum. However, the presence of an AVF or AVG ipsilateral to a central venous stenosis or occlusion can overwhelm the collateral network due to the significantly elevated blood flow. This may result in severe and debilitating upper extremity and fascial swelling. While ligation results in almost instantaneous symptomatic relief, it does not address the patient's underlying pathologic process and necessitates an additional access. As these patients continue to live longer, our strategies to manage these failing accesses are becoming increasingly complex. The goal of preserving existing access while correcting any symptoms is paramount. Previous case reports have documented various surgical options for preserving an existing access.
CASE PRESENTATION: Our patient is a 49-year-old female with hypertension and end-stage renal disease, on hemodialysis through a right arm arteriovenous (AV) fistula. She had a history of multiple AV fistulae creations in the past, all of which previously thrombosed. Several years after the creation of her most recent fistula, she developed severe throbbing headaches, right arm and facial swelling, right eye lacrimation, and blurry vision. AV fistula angiogram demonstrated right brachiocephalic vein chronic occlusion and endovascular revascularization through both trans-AVF and transfemoral approaches were attempted, but unsuccessful.
DISCUSSION: This case illustrates the success of the creation of an internal jugular-jugular vein bypass to maintain a right arm arteriovenous fistula, while at the same time, correcting the symptoms of a right brachiocephalic vein occlusion.

Citation: Carleton J, et al. Internal jugular to internal jugular vein bypass of symptomatic central vein obstruction. Internal jugular to internal jugular vein bypass of symptomatic central vein obstruction. 2022; (unknown volume):11297298211070703. doi: 10.1177/11297298211070703

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35001732/
