PMID: 35000472
Title: Results of Angioplasty With Double-Layer Mesh Stent and Protection Systems of the Extra- and Intracranial Dissection of Cephalic Arteries.

Abstract: PURPOSE: Although a majority of cervical artery dissections can be managed conservatively, patients presenting with cerebral embolization or significant stenosis require a more aggressive approach. However, complications associated with endovascular repair are quite frequent and optimal interventional technique still remains to be established.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: The aim of this post hoc survey was to analyze results of endovascular treatments for symptomatic dissections of the internal carotid and vertebral arteries, which were performed under protection and with the use of double-layer mesh stents. During endovascular procedure catheters, stents and protection systems were tailored according to the angioarchitecture of dissection, particularly to its location, length and coexisting stenotic or aneurysmatic lesions. We evaluated retrospectively midterm and late results of endovascular treatment of 25 patients presenting with symptomatic dissection of cervical arteries, including 11 patients with dissections of intracranial segments of the internal carotid artery. Follow-ups were scheduled 1, 3 and 6 after the procedure, and then every 6 months. Control computed tomography (CT) or digital subtraction angiography (DSA) arteriographies were performed 1-6 months and 12 months after endovascular repair.
RESULTS: There were no periprocedural major adverse events. All patients completed the 12-month follow-up. There were neither fatalities nor new neurologic adverse events at the 30-day follow-up, and no such adverse events during long-term follow-up. At 12-month follow-up, in all patients, angiographies revealed patent stents, full coverage of lesions by stents and complete thrombotic closure of the pseudoaneurysms.
CONCLUSIONS: A tailored endovascular management of symptomatic dissection of cervical arteries is safe and efficient, also in a long run.

Citation: Latacz P, et al. Results of Angioplasty With Double-Layer Mesh Stent and Protection Systems of the Extra- and Intracranial Dissection of Cephalic Arteries. Results of Angioplasty With Double-Layer Mesh Stent and Protection Systems of the Extra- and Intracranial Dissection of Cephalic Arteries. 2023; 30:66-74. doi: 10.1177/15266028211068767

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35000472/
