PMID: 35011078
Title: Physical Performance and Non-Esterified Fatty Acids in Men and Women after Transcatheter Aortic Valve Implantation (TAVI).

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Men and women with valvular heart disease have different risk profiles for clinical endpoints. Non-esterified fatty acids (NEFA) are possibly involved in cardio-metabolic disease. However, it is unclear whether NEFA concentrations are associated with physical performance in patients undergoing transcatheter aortic valve implantation (TAVI) and whether there are sex-specific effects.
METHODS: To test the hypothesis that NEFA concentration is associated with sex-specific physical performance, we prospectively analysed data from one hundred adult patients undergoing TAVI. NEFA concentrations, physical performance and anthropometric parameters were measured before and 6 and 12 months after TAVI. Physical performance was determined by a six-minute walking test (6-MWT) and self-reported weekly bicycle riding time.
RESULTS: Before TAVI, NEFA concentrations were higher in patients (44 women, 56 men) compared to the normal population. Median NEFA concentrations at 6 and 12 months after TAVI were within the reference range reported in the normal population in men but not women. Men but not women presented with an increased performance in the 6-MWT over time (p = 0.026, p = 0.142, respectively). Additionally, men showed an increased ability to ride a bicycle after TAVI compared to before TAVI (p = 0.034). NEFA concentrations before TAVI correlated with the 6-MWT before TAVI in women (Spearman's rho -0.552; p = 0.001) but not in men (Spearman's rho -0.007; p = 0.964). No association was found between NEFA concentrations and physical performance 6 and 12 months after TAVI.
CONCLUSIONS: NEFA concentrations improved into the reference range in men but not women after TAVI. Men but not women have an increased physical performance after TAVI. No association between NEFA and physical performance was observed in men and women after TAVI.

Citation: Härdrich M, et al. Physical Performance and Non-Esterified Fatty Acids in Men and Women after Transcatheter Aortic Valve Implantation (TAVI). Physical Performance and Non-Esterified Fatty Acids in Men and Women after Transcatheter Aortic Valve Implantation (TAVI). 2022; 14:(unknown pages). doi: 10.3390/nu14010203

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35011078/
