PMID: 35029953
Title: Arterial Atherosclerosis: Vascular Surgery Interventions.

Abstract: Atherosclerotic vascular disease is a leading cause of death worldwide. Atherosclerotic stenosis of the internal carotid or intracranial arteries causes up to 15% of strokes. Peripheral artery disease affects up to one in five people in the United States who are 60 years and older and nearly one-half of those who are 85 years and older. Renal artery stenosis may affect up to 5% of people with isolated hypertension and up to 40% of people with other atherosclerotic diseases. All patients with atherosclerotic vascular disease should receive a comprehensive program of guideline-directed medical therapy, including structured physical activity and lifestyle modification, an antiplatelet agent, a statin, antihypertensive therapy, and smoking cessation counseling. The U.S. Preventive Services Task Force recommends one-time screening for abdominal aortic aneurysm with ultrasonography in men 65 to 75 years of age who have smoked at least 100 cigarettes, but screening is not recommended for carotid, peripheral, and renal disease. Surgical revascularization decreases adverse outcomes and mortality in selected patients with advanced vascular disease. Endovascular repair has become more common for patients younger than 70 years because of decreased short-term mortality. Carotid revascularization with carotid endarterectomy or carotid artery stenting is recommended for symptomatic patients with greater than 50% internal carotid artery stenosis. Carotid artery stenting is preferred in patients with multiple comorbidities, tracheostomy, or previous neck radiation or dissection. In patients older than 70 years, carotid endarterectomy is associated with a lower risk of periprocedural stroke or death than carotid artery stenting. Revascularization is a reasonable treatment option for patients with lifestyle-limiting claudication and an inadequate response to guideline-directed therapies. Revascularization is indicated for patients with critical limb ischemia and is emergently indicated for acute limb ischemia. Renal artery revascularization offers no proven clinical benefit when added to optimal medical therapy.

Citation: Firnhaber JM and Powell CS. Arterial Atherosclerosis: Vascular Surgery Interventions. Arterial Atherosclerosis: Vascular Surgery Interventions. 2022; 105:65-72.

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35029953/
