PMID: 35029872
Title: Efficacy of Wen-Dan Decoction in the treatment of patients with coronary heart disease: A protocol for systematic review and meta-analysis.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Coronary heart disease (CHD) is a heart disease caused by myocardial ischemia, hypoxia or necrosis due to stenosis or occlusion of lumen caused by coronary atherosclerosis. It belongs to ischemic cardiomyopathy and is more common in clinic. Previous studies have shown that Wen-Dan Decoction (WDD) is safe and effective, but there is a lack of systematic reviews. The purpose of this study is to systematically study the efficacy of WDD in the treatment of patients with CHD.
METHODS: We will search the following databases: PubMed, EMBASE, Web of Science, Central, Chinese databases China Biomedical Literature, Wanfang Chinese digital periodical and conference database (Wanfang Database), China National Knowledge Infrastructure database, and VIP Chinese Science and Technique Journals Database (VIP) from inception to August 2021. All published randomized controlled trials related to this study will be included. The ongoing or unpublished trials will be searched from National Institutes of Health clinical registry Clinical Trials, International Clinical Trials Registry Platform and the Chinese clinical trial registration platform. Two researchers separately screened the literature and extracted data. The primary outcome is total effective rate. The RevMan V5.3 will be used to evaluate literature and data analysis synthesis.
RESULTS: This study will provide a reliable evidence-based basis for the clinical application of WDD in the treatment of patients with CHD.
CONCLUSION: The effectiveness of WDD for CHD will be evaluated.
UNIQUE INPLASY NUMBER: 2021110001.

Citation: Zhang X, et al. Efficacy of Wen-Dan Decoction in the treatment of patients with coronary heart disease: A protocol for systematic review and meta-analysis. Efficacy of Wen-Dan Decoction in the treatment of patients with coronary heart disease: A protocol for systematic review and meta-analysis. 2022; 101:e28041. doi: 10.1097/MD.0000000000028041

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35029872/
