PMID: 35028135
Title: Combination of simple advancement flap and fistulectomy to treat complex anal fistula as a complication of hemorrhoidectomy: Case report.

Abstract: INTRODUCTION: After hemorrhoidectomy, anal stenosis occurs, which is an uncommon but severe consequence. The majority of severe cases require advancement flap anoplasty.
PRESENTATION OF CASE: A 50-year-old female patient with a history of hemorrhoidectomy 10 months prior to admission complained of difficulty defecating, pain, and incomplete evacuation sensation, as well as a hole on the right side of the anal canal through which feces unintentionally passed. On the physical examination, we found that the anal lumen was partially obstructed, which did not allow the insertion of a finger. There was an impression of a perineal fistula at 5 and 7 o'clock, which was connected to the anal canal 3 cm from the edge of the anus. The patient was diagnosed with severe anal stenosis with perianal fistula. The patient underwent fistulectomy and advancement flap with perianal skin. In the outpatient follow-up clinic in the first and second weeks, the patient showed no complications, and no recurrence of her complaints was found.
DISCUSSION: Several corrective surgical techniques have been applied to restore a healthy lining to the constricted portion of the anal canal. We performed a combination of simple cutaneous advancement flap and fistulectomy to manage the patient with severe anal stenosis following hemorrhoidectomy with concurrent anal fistula.
CONCLUSION: A combination of fistulectomy and simple cutaneous advancement flap anoplasty is a simple, safe, and effective surgical option for the management of severe anal stenosis with concomitant anal fistula.

Citation: Sofii I, et al. Combination of simple advancement flap and fistulectomy to treat complex anal fistula as a complication of hemorrhoidectomy: Case report. Combination of simple advancement flap and fistulectomy to treat complex anal fistula as a complication of hemorrhoidectomy: Case report. 2022; 73:103203. doi: 10.1016/j.amsu.2021.103203

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35028135/
