PMID: 35021272
Title: Combination of High-Density Lipoprotein Cholesterol and Lipoprotein(a) as a Predictor of Collateral Circulation in Patients With Severe Unilateral Internal Carotid Artery Stenosis or Occlusion.

Abstract: BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: Collateral circulation is considered an important factor affecting the risk of stroke, but the factors that affect collateral circulation remain unclear. This study was performed to identify the factors associated with collateral circulation, especially blood lipids.
METHODS: The study involved patients who had undergone digital subtraction angiography and were confirmed as having severe unilateral stenosis or occlusion of the internal carotid artery (ICA). We classified the collateral circulation status of each patient as good (Grade 3 or 4) or poor (Grade 0, 1, or 2) according to the grading system of the American Society of Interventional and Therapeutic Neuroradiology/American Society of Interventional Radiology. We collected data on patients' characteristics and identified the factors that affect collateral circulation.
RESULTS: This study included 212 patients. The multivariate logistic regression analysis showed that the high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL-C) concentration and a complete anterior half of the circle of Willis were independent protective factors for good collateral circulation, whereas elevated lipoprotein(a) [Lp(a)] and serum creatinine concentrations were independent risk factors for good collateral circulation. The area under the receiver operating characteristics curve (AUC) was 0.68 (95% confidence interval [CI], 0.61-0.76) for HDL-C and 0.69 (95% CI, 0.62-0.76) for Lp(a). A binary logistic regression model analysis of the joint factor of HDL-C and Lp(a) yielded an AUC of 0.77 (95% CI, 0.71-0.84).
CONCLUSIONS: In patients with severe unilateral ICA stenosis or occlusion, the combination of HDL-C and Lp(a) is a useful predictor of collateral circulation.

Citation: Ma S, et al. Combination of High-Density Lipoprotein Cholesterol and Lipoprotein(a) as a Predictor of Collateral Circulation in Patients With Severe Unilateral Internal Carotid Artery Stenosis or Occlusion. Combination of High-Density Lipoprotein Cholesterol and Lipoprotein(a) as a Predictor of Collateral Circulation in Patients With Severe Unilateral Internal Carotid Artery Stenosis or Occlusion. 2022; 18:14-23. doi: 10.3988/jcn.2022.18.1.14

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35021272/
