PMID: 35029209
Title: Metastases to duodenum in cervical squamous cell carcinoma: A case report and review of the literature.

Abstract: RATIONALE: Metastases to the duodenum in cervical squamous cell carcinoma are extremely rare, with only 7 cases reported in the published English literature.
PATIENT CONCERNS: We present the case of a 66-year-old woman with duodenal metastasis of cervical squamous cell carcinoma who presented with nausea and vomiting within the past 12 days.
DIAGNOSIS: Esophagogastroduodenoscopy revealed a circular narrowed 2nd part of the duodenum with congested and edematous mucosa, which was biopsied for a suspected neoplastic lesion. The pathological diagnosis indicated squamous cell carcinoma identical to the original tumor, confirming duodenal metastasis.
INTERVENTIONS: The patient received total parenteral nutrition on admission, but symptoms of jaundice soon appeared in the following week, suggesting infiltration of carcinoma into the common bile duct. After percutaneous transhepatic cholangial drainage was performed, jaundice eased in the following 3 days, and an uncovered self-expandable metallic stent was subsequently inserted into the stenosis of 2nd and 3rd part of the duodenum. Subsequently, the patient's diet quickly resumed.
OUTCOMES: The patient refused further intervention and was discharged home to continue palliative care at the local hospital.
LESSONS: Clinicians should be alert to patients' past medical history to ensure that duodenal metastasis of other tumors is considered in the differential diagnosis. For endoscopists, awareness of such patterns of duodenal stenosis is vital for the accurate recognition of such infrequent diseases.

Citation: Chen Y, et al. Metastases to duodenum in cervical squamous cell carcinoma: A case report and review of the literature. Metastases to duodenum in cervical squamous cell carcinoma: A case report and review of the literature. 2022; 101:e28526. doi: 10.1097/MD.0000000000028526

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35029209/
