PMID: 35035692
Title: Prognostic value of color Doppler ultrasound, D-dimer, and Lp-PLA2 levels in carotid atherosclerotic stenosis.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: This research mainly explored the prognostic value of color Doppler ultrasound combined with D-dimer and Lp-PLA2 levels in carotid atherosclerotic stenosis.
METHODS: From January 2018 to August 2020, 67 patients (patient group) who were diagnosed as cerebral infarction by neurology and carotid atherosclerotic stenosis by digital subtraction angiography (DSA) were recruited in this research. Fifty healthy people served as controls and were brought into this research. PI (pulsatility index), RI (resistance index), Vd (end diastolic velocity), and Vs (peak systolic velocity) were obtained by color Doppler ultrasound vascular wall imaging. The levels of D-dimer and Lp-PLA2 in serum were examined. The receiver operating characteristics (ROC) curve was employed to analyze the diagnostic efficacy of color Doppler ultrasound imaging parameters, serum D-dimer, and lipoprotein-associated phospholipase A2 (Lp-PLA2) levels on the prognosis of patients with carotid atherosclerotic stenosis.
RESULTS: The levels of PI, RI, serum D-dimer, and Lp-PLA2 in the patient group were higher than those in the control group (P &lt; 0.05). Levels of Vd and Vs were lower. PI, RI, serum D-dimer, and Lp-PLA2 levels were positively correlated with mRS scores (P &lt; 0.05). Vd and Vs were negatively correlated (P &lt; 0.05). The measurement of VD and Lp-PLA2 levels was more effective in predicting the prognosis of patients with carotid atherosclerotic stenosis.
CONCLUSION: Vd parameters and Lp-PLA2 levels have high clinical values in carotid atherosclerotic stenosis, and are worthy of clinical application.

Citation: Kong Y, et al. Prognostic value of color Doppler ultrasound, D-dimer, and Lp-PLA2 levels in carotid atherosclerotic stenosis. Prognostic value of color Doppler ultrasound, D-dimer, and Lp-PLA2 levels in carotid atherosclerotic stenosis. 2021; 13:13508-13515.

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35035692/
