PMID: 35035903
Title: Psychological distress and quality of life following provision of vascular imaging results of the coronary and carotid arteries to asymptomatic adults: a scoping review protocol.

Abstract: Background: Non-invasive screening for atherosclerosis or asymptomatic cardiovascular disease of the coronary and carotid arteries is commonly undertaken, and research has been focussed on how results from these screenings lead to behaviour change. However, no review has focused on the effects of these results on psychological distress and health-related quality of life (HRQoL). This protocol will outline how a scoping review will be conducted to map all available evidence on psychological distress and/or HRQoL outcomes following the provision of vascular imaging results of the coronary and carotid arteries. Methods: Arksey and O'Malley's (2005) framework subsequently enhanced by Levac et al. (2010)  and Peters et al (2015, 2017) will guide the scoping review. Databases such as MEDLINE (Clarivate), APA PsychINFO, EMBASE, Social Work Abstracts, Psychology and Behavioural Sciences Collection, and Cumulative Index to Nursing and Allied Health Literature (CINAHL) will be searched using MeSH terms  such as "Coronary stenosis", "Carotid Stenosis", "Psychological Distress" and "Quality of Life" and related terms. Two investigators will screen title and abstract and all articles meeting inclusion criteria will be extracted.  Data on authors, publication year, country of origin, aims/purpose, methodology, intervention, outcome measures as well as key findings that relate to the scoping review questions will be extracted for each included study. The findings will be presented using tables and thematic narrative synthesis. The scoping review will not produce a pooled estimate of the impact of vascular imaging results on psychological distress and HRQoL but will present information from the included studies related to psychological distress and HRQoL. Conclusion:  The review will highlight and address gaps in knowledge and provide direction for future investigations.

Citation: Anokye R, et al. Psychological distress and quality of life following provision of vascular imaging results of the coronary and carotid arteries to asymptomatic adults: a scoping review protocol. Psychological distress and quality of life following provision of vascular imaging results of the coronary and carotid arteries to asymptomatic adults: a scoping review protocol. 2020; 9:1376. doi: 10.12688/f1000research.27432.3

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35035903/
