PMID: 35032711
Title: Radial Long Sheath Angioplasty for Proximal Severe Flow-Limiting Radial Artery Spasm Using the Dotter Technique.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Although studies have continued to demonstrate the advantages of transradial access (TRA) for neurointervention, radial artery spasm (RAS) has remained a frequent cause of TRA failure. Dotter and Judkins initially described a technique to dilate areas of peripheral vascular stenosis by advancing sequentially larger catheters across the lesion over a guidewire. We have presented our institutional experience with the use of a modified Dotter technique with long radial sheaths to dilate areas of proximal flow-limiting RAS. In the present study, we reviewed the use of the Dotter technique for alleviating RAS in patients undergoing TRA for neurointervention.
METHODS: We performed a retrospective review of all patients undergoing TRA for neurointervention at our institution from 2018 to 2020 to identify patients with proximal flow-limiting RAS. For the identified patients, a modified Dotter technique had been used to dilate the stenosis. The demographic and periprocedural data were assessed to identify any adverse outcomes.
RESULTS: Four patients with severe proximal flow-limiting RAS were identified. In each case, a hydrophilic long radial sheath and vascular dilator were sequentially advanced through the stenosis. In all cases, repeat angiography demonstrated improvement of the spasm, and the final radial angiograms demonstrated persistent improvement in caliber and regularity of the vessel. Each procedure was also completed via TRA with no periprocedural complications.
CONCLUSIONS: Our modified Dotter technique was effective in bypassing areas of severe proximal flow-limiting RAS, obviating the need for access site conversion. Additional studies are warranted to understand the implication of the angioplasty-like effects seen within the radial artery after removal of the long radial sheaths.

Citation: Challa AS, et al. Radial Long Sheath Angioplasty for Proximal Severe Flow-Limiting Radial Artery Spasm Using the Dotter Technique. Radial Long Sheath Angioplasty for Proximal Severe Flow-Limiting Radial Artery Spasm Using the Dotter Technique. 2022; 160:16-21. doi: 10.1016/j.wneu.2022.01.025

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35032711/
