PMID: 35035306
Title: Procedure and Clinical Success of Drug-Coated Balloon Fistuloplasty of the Drainage Vein in Dysfunctional Native Arteriovenous Fistulas.

Abstract: PURPOSE: Native arteriovenous fistulas (AVFs) are the most effective vascular access (VA) for haemodialysis. We aimed to evaluate the results of balloon angioplasty (fistuloplasty) from drainage vein performed for the treatment of AVF dysfunction in haemodialysis patients and examine potential patient and AVF-associated factors that might affect such results.
METHODS: This is a nonrandomized, retrospective, and single-centred study. A total of 105 balloon fistuloplasties were performed for dysfunctional AVFs of 82 haemodialysis patients. Patients were treated with a drug-coated balloon according to standard procedures. Evaluations were performed by physical examinations and if needed by color Doppler imaging in every 6 months. The primary endpoint was patency by balloon fistuloplasty. Patency was evaluated clinically by detecting the thrill in AVF and by the adequacy of the dialysis. Multidimensional scaling (MDS) technique was used as a method for the statistical analysis.
RESULTS: The success of the procedure after the first attempt was 85.3% with 70 patients. Patency in the 6th, 12th, 18th, and 24th months were 63 (76.8%), 60 (73.1%), 53 (64.6%), and 44 (54%), respectively. The procedure was considered successful when the thrill was detected in AVF and when dialysis was adequate. The statistical analysis by MDS revealed that patients' age was the most effective factor acting on the procedure success followed by the age of AVF. Other patient-associated and AVF-associated factors were not found as effective statistical evaluation.
CONCLUSIONS: Haemodialysis through native AVFs with restored functionality contributes positively to the life span and the quality of life of the patient. Probably, advanced age and high fistula age are unfavourable factors leading to the development of neointimal hyperplasia and venous stenosis. Balloon fistuloplasty of the draining vein is an effective and safe method regardless of patient age and the age of AVF.

Citation: Temiztürk Z, et al. Procedure and Clinical Success of Drug-Coated Balloon Fistuloplasty of the Drainage Vein in Dysfunctional Native Arteriovenous Fistulas. Procedure and Clinical Success of Drug-Coated Balloon Fistuloplasty of the Drainage Vein in Dysfunctional Native Arteriovenous Fistulas. 2021; 2021:8266673. doi: 10.1155/2021/8266673

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35035306/
