PMID: 35031973
Title: High prevalence of middle cerebral artery calcification is associated with cardiovascular mortality in hemodialyzed patients: an overlooked part of arterial tree?

Abstract: PURPOSE: We have analyzed markers of accelerated atherosclerosis like large artery stiffness, ankle-brachial index, carotid and vertebral duplex ultrasonography and their possible associations with the incidence of intracranial calcifications, clinical course of hemodialyzed patients, and cardiovascular mortality.
METHODS: A computed tomographic scan of the head was performed for any neurological indication on 100 hemodialyzed patients. Eleven intracranial arteries were analyzed for calcification score, while internal carotid arteries and vertebral arteries were excluded in cerebral artery calcification score. As a control group for assessing intracranial calcifications, we have analyzed computed tomographic scans from diabetic patients who had an acute stroke.
RESULTS: Deceased patients had significantly higher values of augmentation index and pulse wave velocity, lower ankle-brachial index, and higher internal carotid arteries peak systolic value than survived patients. Deceased patients had significantly higher number of calcified middle cerebral arteries as well as significantly higher intracranial artery calcification score and cerebral artery calcification score. Hemodialyzed patients had significantly higher both intracranial and cerebral artery calcification scores than diabetic control group. Age and calcified middle cerebral arteries had increased HR of 1.08 and 1.36 for cardiovascular mortality.
CONCLUSION: This study showed that large artery stiffness and not the presence of peripheral arterial disease or carotid artery stenosis have the prognostic role of middle cerebral arteries' calcifications and cardiovascular mortality in hemodialyzed patients. The presence of middle cerebral arteries' calcifications diagnosed by a non-invasive method should be considered a marker of middle-sized conduit arteries atherosclerosis, subclinical brain damage, and future fatal cardiovascular events.

Citation: Premužić V, et al. High prevalence of middle cerebral artery calcification is associated with cardiovascular mortality in hemodialyzed patients: an overlooked part of arterial tree?. High prevalence of middle cerebral artery calcification is associated with cardiovascular mortality in hemodialyzed patients: an overlooked part of arterial tree?. 2022; 54:1995-2004. doi: 10.1007/s11255-021-03092-2

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35031973/
