PMID: 35048150
Title: The Effect of Lipofilling and Platelet-Rich Plasma on Patients with Moderate-Severe Vulvar Lichen Sclerosus who were Non-Responders to Topical Clobetasol Propionate: A Randomized Pilot Study.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: The first-line treatment for vulvar lichen sclerosus (VLS) is 3 months of topical corticosteroid therapy. However, limited evidence is available concerning the use of fat grafting and platelet-rich plasma as a second-line treatment for patients who do not respond to first-line treatment.
METHODS: This prospective single-center randomized pilot trial included 20 patients with a clinical and histological diagnosis of moderate to severe VLS. The patients in the treatment group (TG) received two infiltrations (at 3-month intervals) of nanofat mixed with platelet-rich plasma (PRP) into the vulvar area, while the control group (CG) received standard topical corticosteroid therapy. Fat was aspirated from the medial thigh or lower abdomen regions. Microfat was obtained after centrifugation and was emulsified to obtain a nanofat suspension. Treatment efficacy was determined by measuring changes in the vulvar skin elasticity, histopathology, and clinical signs, symptoms, and patient quality of life at after 1 year.
RESULTS: A total of 19 patients were finally assessed (9 TG and 10 CG). At the end of the study (1 year), there had been no significant improvement in vulvar skin elasticity. However, patients in the TG showed a significant improvement in their symptoms (itching, pain, burning, and dyspareunia) and clinical signs (cervical erosions, fissures, stenosis, and leukoderma). Analysis of skin biopsies revealed a significant decrease in all inflammatory cell types in the TG. No adverse events related to the autologous treatment were recorded.
CONCLUSIONS: Compared with topical corticosteroids, two infiltrations delivered 3 months apart decreased the inflammation of the vulva and improved most of the clinical signs and symptoms associated with VLS. Nonetheless, no improvement in vulvar skin elasticity was derived from the autologous treatment.
LEVEL OF EVIDENCE I: This journal requires that authors assign a level of evidence to each article. For a full description of these Evidence-Based Medicine ratings, please refer to the Table of Contents or the online Instructions to Authors www.springer.com/00266 .

Citation: Gutierrez-Ontalvilla P, et al. The Effect of Lipofilling and Platelet-Rich Plasma on Patients with Moderate-Severe Vulvar Lichen Sclerosus who were Non-Responders to Topical Clobetasol Propionate: A Randomized Pilot Study. The Effect of Lipofilling and Platelet-Rich Plasma on Patients with Moderate-Severe Vulvar Lichen Sclerosus who were Non-Responders to Topical Clobetasol Propionate: A Randomized Pilot Study. 2022; 46:2469-2479. doi: 10.1007/s00266-021-02718-1

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35048150/
