PMID: 35043241
Title: "Real-World Study of a Dual-Layer Micromesh Stent in Elective Treatment of Symptomatic and Asymptomatic Carotid Artery Stenosis (ROADSAVER)".

Abstract: PURPOSE: Endovascular carotid artery stenosis treatment is associated with a higher peri- and early post-procedural stroke risk relative to surgery. Dual-layer micromesh carotid stents were specifically designed for improved plaque coverage to reduce the cerebral embolization risk and related ischemic events. ROADSAVER study aims to further confirm the safety and efficacy of the Roadsaver™ dual-layer micromesh stent for the treatment of elective patients with carotid artery stenosis.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: ROADSAVER is a prospective, multi-center, observational study. Between January 2018 and February 2021, a total of 1967 patients featuring asymptomatic or symptomatic, non-occlusive and non-thrombotic carotid stenosis eligible for an elective stenting procedure were enrolled across 13 European countries (52 centers). Follow-up visits are scheduled at 30 days and at 12 months. The primary outcome measure is the major adverse event rate, i.e., cumulative incidence of any death or stroke up to 30 days post-procedure. All deaths, strokes and carotid revascularizations are adjudicated by an independent Clinical Events Committee. Sub-analyses are prespecified and focused on baseline patient characteristics (e.g., age, neurologic status), procedural features (e.g., access route, embolic protection use), advanced imaging, and treatment efficacy up to 12 months.
CONCLUSION: The present study evaluates the Roadsaver™ dual-layer micromesh carotid stent in the real-world clinical practice aiming to provide valuable insights into the contemporary European treatment trends and outcomes of elective carotid artery stenting. The large study population and predefined sub-analyses should help identify the best practices and patient subsets to benefit most from the treatment.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: Clinicaltrial.gov identifier: NCT03504228.

Citation: Kedev S, et al. "Real-World Study of a Dual-Layer Micromesh Stent in Elective Treatment of Symptomatic and Asymptomatic Carotid Artery Stenosis (ROADSAVER)". "Real-World Study of a Dual-Layer Micromesh Stent in Elective Treatment of Symptomatic and Asymptomatic Carotid Artery Stenosis (ROADSAVER)". 2022; 45:277-282. doi: 10.1007/s00270-021-03051-5

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35043241/
