PMID: 35045727
Title: Apo(a) and ApoB Interact Noncovalently Within Hepatocytes: Implications for Regulation of Lp(a) Levels by Modulation of ApoB Secretion.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Elevated plasma Lp(a) (lipoprotein(a)) levels are associated with increased risk for atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease and aortic valve stenosis. However, the cell biology of Lp(a) biosynthesis remains poorly understood, with the locations of the noncovalent and covalent steps of Lp(a) assembly unclear and the nature of the apoB-containing particle destined for Lp(a) unknown. We, therefore, asked if apo(a) and apoB interact noncovalently within hepatocytes and if this impacts Lp(a) biosynthesis.
METHODS: Using human hepatocellular carcinoma cells expressing 17K (17 kringle) apo(a), or a 17KΔLBS7,8 variant with a reduced ability to bind noncovalently to apoB, we performed coimmunoprecipitation, coimmunofluorescence, and proximity ligation assays to document intracellular apo(a):apoB interactions. We used a pulse-chase metabolic labeling approach to measure apo(a) and apoB secretion rates.
RESULTS: Noncovalent complexes containing apo(a)/apoB are present in lysates from cells expressing 17K but not 17KΔLBS7,8, whereas covalent apo(a)/apoB complexes are absent from lysates. 17K and apoB colocalized intracellularly, overlapping with staining for markers of endoplasmic reticulum trans-Golgi, and early endosomes, and less so with lysosomes. The 17KΔLBS7,8 had lower colocalization with apoB. Proximity ligation assays directly documented intracellular 17K/apoB interactions, which were dramatically reduced for 17KΔLBS7,8. Treatment of cells with PCSK9 (proprotein convertase subtilisin/kexin type 9) enhanced, and lomitapide reduced, apo(a) secretion in a manner dependent on the noncovalent interaction between apo(a) and apoB. Apo(a) secretion was also reduced by siRNA-mediated knockdown of APOB.
CONCLUSIONS: Our findings explain the coupling of apo(a) and Lp(a)-apoB production observed in human metabolic studies using stable isotopes as well as the ability of agents that inhibit apoB biosynthesis to lower Lp(a) levels.

Citation: Youssef A, et al. Apo(a) and ApoB Interact Noncovalently Within Hepatocytes: Implications for Regulation of Lp(a) Levels by Modulation of ApoB Secretion. Apo(a) and ApoB Interact Noncovalently Within Hepatocytes: Implications for Regulation of Lp(a) Levels by Modulation of ApoB Secretion. 2022; 42:289-304. doi: 10.1161/ATVBAHA.121.317335

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35045727/
