PMID: 35047748
Title: A case report of late physiologic repair of congenitally corrected transposition of the great arteries and pulmonary stenosis in a severely cyanotic patient: better late than never.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Patients with congenitally corrected transposition of great arteries (ccTGA) not infrequently seek medical attention for the first time late in life. Optimal management of natural history ccTGA is debated and must be tailored.
CASE SUMMARY: A 38-year-old male patient was referred to our centre because of severe cyanosis and worsening dyspnoea. Investigations disclosed situs solitus, mesocardia, double discordance, large ventricular septal defect (VSD), severe pulmonary stenosis, and no significant atrio-ventricular valves regurgitation. The patient underwent physiologic repair: VSD closure, placement of a left ventricle to pulmonary artery conduit, and epicardial atrio-biventricular pacemaker implantation. The conduit was intentionally undersized to promote tricuspid valve continence. Post-operative course was uneventful, transthoracic echocardiography showed good biventricular function without significant tricuspid regurgitation. At 1 month after discharge, the patient is in New York Heart Association Class II.
DISCUSSION: Management of late presenter patients with ccTGA depends on the associated lesion and estimation of surgical risk. In selected patients markedly symptomatic physiologic repair is a rationale option, providing a normal saturation and biventricular circulation with a significantly lower surgical risk as compared with an anatomic repair.

Citation: Ferrero P, et al. A case report of late physiologic repair of congenitally corrected transposition of the great arteries and pulmonary stenosis in a severely cyanotic patient: better late than never. A case report of late physiologic repair of congenitally corrected transposition of the great arteries and pulmonary stenosis in a severely cyanotic patient: better late than never. 2022; 6:ytab523. doi: 10.1093/ehjcr/ytab523

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35047748/
