PMID: 35057987
Title: Echocardiographic Assessment of Melody Versus Sapien Valves Following Transcatheter Pulmonary Valve Replacement.

Abstract: OBJECTIVES: The aim of this study was to compare the immediate and midterm echocardiographic performance of the Melody (Medtronic Inc) and Sapien (Edwards Lifesciences Inc) valves after transcatheter pulmonary valve replacement (TPVR) in native and conduit right ventricular outflow tracts (RVOTs).
BACKGROUND: TPVR is now a common procedure, but limited data exist comparing postimplantation echocardiographic findings between Melody and Sapien valves.
METHODS: This was a single-institution retrospective cohort study of all patients who underwent successful TPVR from 2011 to 2020. Patient demographics, procedural details, and immediate and midterm echocardiographic findings were collected and compared between valve types using the Wilcoxon rank sum, chi-square, or Fisher exact test as appropriate. Subgroups were analyzed individually and were adjusted for multiple comparisons using the Bonferroni method.
RESULTS: A total of 328 patients underwent successful TPVR (Melody: n = 202, Sapien: n = 126). The groups had a similar baseline age, weight, and diagnosis. The most common indications for TPVR were pulmonary stenosis (32.2%) or mixed disease (46%) in the Melody group and pulmonary insufficiency in the Sapien group (52.4%) (P < 0.001). Sapien valves were more often placed in native RVOTs (43.7% vs 18.8%; P < 0.001). The discharge and follow-up mean and peak Doppler gradients were similar between the Melody and Sapien groups. Valves implanted in native RVOTs had significantly lower postimplantation gradients at each follow-up period.
CONCLUSIONS: Echocardiographic performance after TPVR was generally acceptable and similar when comparing Melody and Sapien valves despite differences in the indication and anatomy in each group. The peak and mean gradients were lower in transcatheter valves implanted in native RVOTs compared with those implanted in conduits or bioprosthetic valves.

Citation: Samayoa JC, et al. Echocardiographic Assessment of Melody Versus Sapien Valves Following Transcatheter Pulmonary Valve Replacement. Echocardiographic Assessment of Melody Versus Sapien Valves Following Transcatheter Pulmonary Valve Replacement. 2022; 15:165-175. doi: 10.1016/j.jcin.2021.11.002

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35057987/
