PMID: 35059707
Title: Spray cryotherapy versus continued radiofrequency ablation in persistent Barrett's esophagus.

Abstract: Radiofrequency ablation (RFA) is the first-line treatment for flat Barrett's esophagus (BE) with dysplasia, however its role for persistent Barrett's esophagus (PBE) is unclear. PBE requires additional RFA sessions or application of cryotherapy to improve therapeutic response. We performed a retrospective cohort study evaluating cases of PBE treated by endoscopic eradication programs, with and without spray cryotherapy, and evaluated their safety and efficacy. We retrospectively identified patients with PBE, defined as ≤50% BE reduction or unchanged dysplasia after at least two RFA sessions. PBE was treated either by continued RFA (RFA Group) or converting to spray cryotherapy (CRYO Group), both followed by surveillance period. The rate of adverse events (AE), complete response of intestinal metaplasia (CRIM) and complete response of dysplasia (CRD) were recorded. A total of 46 patients, 23 per group, underwent 622 endoscopic therapies. Circumferential BE length was longer in the CRYO Group, but other baseline characteristics were similar, including maximal BE length. Esophageal strictures accounted for 14/16 total AE, 71% of which were RFA related, compared with 14% related to spray cryotherapy (P = 0.02). Overall CRIM/CRD rates in CRYO (83%) and RFA (96%) groups were not statistically different (P = 0.16), however cases in the CRYO Group required more treatment encounters (Median 19 vs. 12, P ≤ 0.01). Multimodal endotherapy is effective for eradicating PBE. Treatment programs incorporating spray cryotherapy are associated with less esophageal strictures but may require more treatment sessions to achieve eradication.

Citation: Genere JR, et al. Spray cryotherapy versus continued radiofrequency ablation in persistent Barrett's esophagus. Spray cryotherapy versus continued radiofrequency ablation in persistent Barrett's esophagus. 2022; 35:(unknown pages). doi: 10.1093/dote/doab084

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35059707/
