PMID: 35051658
Title: Feasibility of the "Cuff-Sleeve" Suture Method for Functional Neocervix Reconstruction in Laparoscopic Radical Trachelectomy: A Retrospective Analysis.

Abstract: STUDY OBJECTIVES: The purpose of this study was to evaluate the feasibility of "cuff-sleeve" sutures for reconstructing a functional neocervix in laparoscopic radical trachelectomy (RT).
DESIGN: A retrospective analysis of a case series.
SETTING: A teaching hospital.
PATIENTS: Twenty-five patients who were diagnosed as early-stage cervical cancer from June 2017 to October 2020 in Sun Yat-sen Memorial Hospital.
INTERVENTIONS: Laparoscopic RT with the "cuff-sleeve" suture method for cervicovaginal reconstruction.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Twenty-five patients successfully underwent the laparoscopic RT with the "cuff-sleeve" suture method for cervicovaginal reconstruction, and no intraoperative complications occurred or conversion to laparotomy was needed. For all patients, approximately 80% of the cervical length was removed. Surgical radicality and negative surgical margins were also confirmed. During a median follow-up time of 29 months (range 8-48 months), no severe postoperative complications were observed. No cervical stenosis or secondary abnormal menstruation was reported. After the removal of the uterine stent 6 months after surgery, the neocervix length was approximately 14 mm (range 10-19 mm) and almost all the neocervixes were restored closely to the original anatomy. Four of 8 patients attempting actively to conceive were successful, and the cervical length of these pregnant patients was greater than or equal to 15 mm in all but one measurement at different gestational age. Three patients were ongoing pregnant, and the other had delivered successfully with a 16- mm cervix at term without cerclage.
CONCLUSION: The "cuff-sleeve" suture method in cervicovaginal reconstruction is feasible in laparoscopic RT. This simplified suture technique can provide a functional neocervix to reduce cervical stenosis and incompetence.

Citation: Xu M, et al. Feasibility of the "Cuff-Sleeve" Suture Method for Functional Neocervix Reconstruction in Laparoscopic Radical Trachelectomy: A Retrospective Analysis. Feasibility of the "Cuff-Sleeve" Suture Method for Functional Neocervix Reconstruction in Laparoscopic Radical Trachelectomy: A Retrospective Analysis. 2022; 29:673-682. doi: 10.1016/j.jmig.2022.01.002

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35051658/
