PMID: 35065172
Title: The characteristics of the stricture, but not the ongoing treatment, could influence the outcome of endoscopic dilation in recurrent Crohn's disease.

Abstract: AIM: Stricture is one of the main complications of Crohn's disease (CD). Among the main conservative therapeutic alternatives, endoscopic balloon dilation (EBD) of the strictures stands out, which can improve the symptoms and delay or even avoid the need for more surgeries. The main aim of this study was to evaluate the efficacy of the EBD in CD patients with post-surgical anastomotic strictures from a previous surgery.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: An observational study of a cohort of 32 patients with CD who underwent EBD due to uncomplicated strictures at a tertiary hospital, since 2009. Demographic, clinical and disease variables, medical treatments and previous surgeries and types, analytical variables at the time of dilation, number of dilations, complications and need for subsequent surgery were collected by searching data in clinical records.
RESULTS: Thirty-two patients were included, performing a total of 63 endoscopic dilations. A technical success of 63.5%, a therapeutic success by dilation of 58.75% and a therapeutic success per patient of 62.5% were achieved. Regarding complications, the percentage of post-dilation adverse events was 3.2% and post-dilation incidents were 4.8%. Thirty EBD did not need any medical treatment modification, 9 EBD remained untreated and 12 EBD required further surgery. The length of the strictures, but not the ongoing treatment, was the only statistically significant factor of therapeutic success by dilation and per patient.
CONCLUSIONS: EBD seems a safe technique in short post-surgical strictures, can avoid the need for new surgery and prevents unnecessary immunosuppression in patients with CD anastomotic strictures.

Citation: Ladrón Abia P, et al. The characteristics of the stricture, but not the ongoing treatment, could influence the outcome of endoscopic dilation in recurrent Crohn's disease. The characteristics of the stricture, but not the ongoing treatment, could influence the outcome of endoscopic dilation in recurrent Crohn's disease. 2022; 45:614-620. doi: 10.1016/j.gastrohep.2022.01.004

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35065172/
