PMID: 35066774
Title: Cascaded neural network-based CT image processing for aortic root analysis.

Abstract: PURPOSE: Careful assessment of the aortic root is paramount to select an appropriate prosthesis for transcatheter aortic valve implantation (TAVI). Relevant information about the aortic root anatomy, such as the aortic annulus diameter, can be extracted from pre-interventional CT. In this work, we investigate a neural network-based approach for segmenting the aortic root as a basis for obtaining these parameters.
METHODS: To support valve prosthesis selection, geometric measures of the aortic root are extracted from the patient's CT scan using a cascade of convolutional neural networks (CNNs). First, the image is reduced to the aortic root, valve, and left ventricular outflow tract (LVOT); within that subimage, the aortic valve and ascending aorta are segmented; and finally, the region around the aortic annulus. From the segmented annulus region, we infer the annulus orientation using principal component analysis (PCA). The area-derived diameter of the annulus is approximated based on the segmentation of the aortic root and LVOT and the plane orientation resulting from the PCA.
RESULTS: The cascade of CNNs was trained using 90 expert-annotated contrast-enhanced CT scans routinely acquired for TAVI planning. Segmentation of the aorta and valve within the region of interest achieved an F1 score of 0.94 on the test set of 36 patients. The area-derived diameter within the annulus region was determined with a mean error below 2 mm between the automatic measurement and the diameter derived from annotations. The calculated diameters and resulting errors are comparable to published results of alternative approaches.
CONCLUSIONS: The cascaded neural network approach enabled the assessment of the aortic root with a relatively small training set. The processing time amounts to 30 s per patient, facilitating time-efficient, reproducible measurements. An extended training data set, including different levels of calcification or special cases (e.g., pre-implanted valves), could further improve this method's applicability and robustness.

Citation: Krüger N, et al. Cascaded neural network-based CT image processing for aortic root analysis. Cascaded neural network-based CT image processing for aortic root analysis. 2022; 17:507-519. doi: 10.1007/s11548-021-02554-3

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35066774/
