PMID: 35065651
Title: Recurrent graft failure secondary to portal vein steal syndrome: a case report with an unusual indication for a third liver transplant.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Portal vein shunt is common in chronic hepatic diseases and after a liver transplant. Ensuring a satisfactory portal flow is essential to support a rapid liver recovery, of paramount importance to meet the recipient's metabolic needs.
CASE PRESENTATION: We report the case of a 32-year-old female undergoing a third liver transplant due to recurrence of graft failure secondary to portosystemic shunting. The patient, affected with biliary atresia, was first transplanted in 2009 with a right split liver graft. The clinical course was complicated by biliary stenosis of the Roux-en-Y anastomosis and multiple episodes of acute rejection treated with steroid boluses, plastic dilation of the biliary anastomosis, and biliary catheter placement. Unfortunately, in 2017 a liver biopsy showed an autoimmunity with histological evidence of ANA 1:80 (granular and nucleolar pattern). This was a contributing factor of liver function impairment, leading to the need to perform a second liver transplant, complicated by an acute rejection, with only a partial response to steroid therapy. Due to the further worsening of the liver function (MELD: 40, Child-Pugh: C11), the patient was relisted for a liver transplant. After five days, she received her third liver transplant, with an entire graft of an AB0 identical group. Intraoperative exploration revealed multiple collaterals and large splenocaval shunts, with a significant alteration of the portal flow and hypertension, isolated and closed with a vascular stapler to restore the graft's regular portal vein flow.
CONCLUSIONS: In patients listed for a liver transplant, portal steal syndrome should be identified prior to the transplant. Our recommendation is to consider intraoperative or perioperative closure of the portal collateral varices.

Citation: Tropea A, et al. Recurrent graft failure secondary to portal vein steal syndrome: a case report with an unusual indication for a third liver transplant. Recurrent graft failure secondary to portal vein steal syndrome: a case report with an unusual indication for a third liver transplant. 2022; 22:23. doi: 10.1186/s12893-022-01475-5

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35065651/
