PMID: 35068817
Title: Minimally invasive cervical laminoforaminotomy - Technique and outcomes.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Cervical radiculopathy is a common pathological entity encountered by spine surgeons. Many surgical options have been described including anterior cervical discectomy with or without fusion to arthroplasty and posterior cervical laminoforaminotomy. Being a motion-preserving procedure, posterior cervical laminoforaminotomy is an excellent treatment for patients with unilateral radiculopathy secondary to a laterally located herniated disc or foraminal stenosis. With the advent of minimally invasive techniques, this procedure has regained popularity.
OBJECTIVES: Although there is enough evidence in the literature highlighting the benefits, safety, and efficacy of minimally invasive versus conventional techniques, a detailed technical report along with long-term surgical outcomes is lacking.
METHODS: The authors present their experience in minimally invasive cervical laminoforaminotomy (MIS-CLF) over a 7-year period (2013-2020) along with a technical note. Clinical evaluation was performed both before and after surgery, using the Visual Analog Scale (VAS) pain scores. Patient functional outcome was measured using the modified Odom's criteria.
RESULTS: There were no major perioperative complications. No patient required surgery for the same level during the follow-up period which ranged from 1 to 3 years. Statistically significant results were obtained in all cases, reflected by an improvement in VAS for neck/arm pain.
CONCLUSION: MIS-CLF is an effective technique for treatment of radiculopathy due to cervical disc herniation in a carefully selected subgroup of patients with good medium- to long-term outcomes. A larger study would possibly highlight the effectiveness of this procedure.

Citation: Srikantha U, et al. Minimally invasive cervical laminoforaminotomy - Technique and outcomes. Minimally invasive cervical laminoforaminotomy - Technique and outcomes. 2021; 12:361-367. doi: 10.4103/jcvjs.jcvjs_137_21

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35068817/
