PMID: 35069414
Title: Iron Deposition in Gray Matter Nuclei of Patients With Intracranial Artery Stenosis: A Quantitative Susceptibility Mapping Study.

Abstract: Purpose: This study aimed to use quantitative susceptibility mapping (QSM) to systematically investigate the changes of iron content in gray matter (GM) nuclei in patients with long-term anterior circulation artery stenosis (ACAS) and posterior circulation artery stenosis (PCAS). Methods: Twenty-five ACAS patients, 25 PCAS patients, and 25 age- and sex-matched healthy controls underwent QSM examination. Patients were scored using the National Institutes of Health Stroke Scale (NIHSS) and modified Rankin Scale (mRS) to assess the degree of neural function deficiency. On QSM images, iron related susceptibility of GM nuclei, including bilateral caudate nucleus, putamen (PU), globus pallidus (GP), thalamus (TH), substantia nigra (SN), red nucleus, and dentate nucleus (DN), were assessed. Susceptibility was compared between bilateral GM nuclei in healthy controls, ACAS patients, and PCAS patients. Partial correlation analysis, with age as a covariate, was separately performed to assess the relationships of susceptibility with NIHSS and mRS scores. Results: There were no significant differences between the susceptibilities for left and right hemispheres in all seven GM nucleus subregions for healthy controls, ACAS patients, and PCAS patients. Compared with healthy controls, mean susceptibility of bilateral PU, GP, and SN in ACAS patients and of bilateral PU, GP, SN, and DN in PCAS patients were significantly increased (all P &lt; 0.05). In addition, mean susceptibility of bilateral TH and SN in PCAS patients was significantly higher than in ACAS patients (both P &lt; 0.05). With partial correlation analysis, mean susceptibility at bilateral PU of ACAS patients was significantly correlated with mRS score (r = 0.415, P &lt; 0.05), and at bilateral PU in PCAS patients was correlated with NIHSS score (r = 0.424, P &lt; 0.05). Conclusion: Our findings indicated that abnormal iron metabolism may present in different subregions of GM nuclei after long-term ACAS and PCAS. In addition, iron content of PU in patients with ACAS and PCAS was correlated with neurological deficit scores. Therefore, iron quantification measured by QSM susceptibility may provide a new insight to understand the pathological mechanism of ischemic stroke caused by ACAS and PCAS.

Citation: Mao H, et al. Iron Deposition in Gray Matter Nuclei of Patients With Intracranial Artery Stenosis: A Quantitative Susceptibility Mapping Study. Iron Deposition in Gray Matter Nuclei of Patients With Intracranial Artery Stenosis: A Quantitative Susceptibility Mapping Study. 2021; 12:785822. doi: 10.3389/fneur.2021.785822

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35069414/
