PMID: 35067372
Title: Adult Living Donor Liver Transplantation for the Carryover Patients After Kasai Operation Who Have a History of Multiple Laparotomies.

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: Approximately 50 years have passed since the Kasai operation announcement for biliary atresia. In adult liver failure cases, the so-called "the carryover cases after Kasai operation" have increased. These patients often underwent polysurgery. In such cases, adult living-donor liver transplantation (LDLT) is occasionally difficult. Many complications have been reported to be caused by severe cholangitis, hepatic portal regional inflammation, and adhesion. We investigated the complications of adult LDLT in post-Kasai biliary atresia cases with polysurgery.
METHODS: Between 1991 and 2021, we performed 205 LDLT cases. We investigated the outcome of adult LDLT for post-Kasai biliary atresia cases (transplanted over 16 years old) (n = 20) and the risk factors for complications after LDLT.
RESULTS: On 5 years overall survival, there were no significant differences between "adult LDLT for post-Kasai" group and the others (81.8% vs 81.2%). Adult LDLT for post-Kasai was not found to be a risk factor for complications. However, polysurgery before LDLT was an independent risk factor for biliary stenosis and portal stenosis, as identified in our univariate and multivariate analysis. We analyzed the relationship between biliary stenosis and the frequency of laparotomies using a receiver operating characteristic curve. The analysis showed that the cutoff point (maximum point of sensitivity plus specificity) was more than 3 times that of laparotomies before LDLT.
CONCLUSIONS: In our study, adult LDLT for post-Kasai cases was not a risk factor for any complications. However, polysurgery before LDLT has been identified as a risk factor for biliary stenosis and portal vein stenosis.

Citation: Miyagi S, et al. Adult Living Donor Liver Transplantation for the Carryover Patients After Kasai Operation Who Have a History of Multiple Laparotomies. Adult Living Donor Liver Transplantation for the Carryover Patients After Kasai Operation Who Have a History of Multiple Laparotomies. 2022; 54:430-434. doi: 10.1016/j.transproceed.2021.09.073

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35067372/
