PMID: 35071578
Title: Severe digital ischemia coexists with thrombocytopenia in malignancy-associated antiphospholipid syndrome: A case report and review of literature.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Paraneoplastic syndromes are characterized by atypical clinical manifestations. Several reports of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) paraneoplastic phenomena have been reported. They usually manifest as one type in an individual, but it is not common for the two clinical manifestations to occur simultaneously.
CASE SUMMARY: A 52-year-old female patient was admitted to hospital with pale skin and numbness of the second to fifth fingers in the left hand, which rapidly developed into severe digital ischemia. Computed tomography angiography revealed uneven thickness of the left ulnar artery with severe local luminal stenosis. Blood analysis during hospitalization showed persistent mild to medium thrombocytopenia and insensitive to hormonal therapy. Antiphospholipid antibody testing showed high titer of IgG anticardiolipin antibodies (aCLs), IgA aCLs, IgG anti-β2-glycoprotein-I (anti-β2 GPI), and IgA anti-β2 GPI. The exact diagnosis was HCC when the high a-fetoprotein levels, computed tomography findings, and the history of chronic hepatitis B came together. This was a rare case of coexisting manifestations as presenting symptoms of malignancy-associated antiphospholipid syndrome. The patient underwent several operations, antithrombotic treatments and hormonal therapy. However, the patient refused chemotherapy and died 8 wk after diagnosis.
CONCLUSION: This report highlights the importance of atypical clinical changes that could alert the physicians to vigilance for a concomitant underlying malignancy.

Citation: Chen JL, et al. Severe digital ischemia coexists with thrombocytopenia in malignancy-associated antiphospholipid syndrome: A case report and review of literature. Severe digital ischemia coexists with thrombocytopenia in malignancy-associated antiphospholipid syndrome: A case report and review of literature. 2021; 9:11457-11466. doi: 10.12998/wjcc.v9.i36.11457

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35071578/
