PMID: 35079550
Title: Lumbar Canal Stenosis Caused by Spondylolisthesis and Intraspinal Canal Calcifications Associated with Psoriatic Arthritis: A Case Report.

Abstract: Soft tissue calcifications are common findings in patients with various diseases, such as malignant tumors, collagen diseases, trauma, and chronic kidney disease. The majority of these lesions are not clinically significant; however, they can cause specific disorders within a limited space, such as the spinal canal. Here, we report the case of a patient undergoing fusion surgery for lumbar canal stenosis due to degenerative spondylolisthesis and multiple intraspinal canal calcifications associated with psoriatic arthritis (PsA). A 55-year-old female patient presented with pain in the left leg and intermittent claudication for 1 month. One year ago, she was diagnosed with PsA and received outpatient treatment, including biological medication, at the Division of Rheumatology, Department of Internal Medicine of our institution. She was referred to our department, and radiological examination revealed lumbar canal stenosis caused by spondylolisthesis and multiple calcifications in the lumbar spinal canal. We performed posterior lumbar interbody fusion (PLIF) with percutaneous pedicle screw fixation concomitant with removal of the calcifications. The postoperative course was uneventful, and her neurological symptoms improved. Although several prior case reports have noted intraspinal canal calcifications due to collagen disease or chronic kidney disease, calcifications associated with PsA are rare. We discuss the diagnosis of PsA and its relationship with intraspinal canal calcifications by reviewing the previous relevant literature.

Citation: Tanaka H, et al. Lumbar Canal Stenosis Caused by Spondylolisthesis and Intraspinal Canal Calcifications Associated with Psoriatic Arthritis: A Case Report. Lumbar Canal Stenosis Caused by Spondylolisthesis and Intraspinal Canal Calcifications Associated with Psoriatic Arthritis: A Case Report. 2021; 8:793-798. doi: 10.2176/nmccrj.cr.2021-0189

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35079550/
