PMID: 35078416
Title: Systemic lupus erythematosus simultaneously presenting with visceral muscle dysmotility syndrome and mechanical intestinal obstruction clinically relieved by surgery: a case report and literature review.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Intestinal pseudo-obstruction (IPO) accompanied by hepatobiliary dilatation and ureterohydronephrosis is extremely rare in systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE). This triad is also called visceral muscle dysmotility syndrome (VMDS). Only 9 cases have been reported in the literature. Here, we report a rare case of VMDS with mechanical intestinal obstruction that was clinically relieved by surgery.
CASE PRESENTATION: This report refers to a 31-year-old woman with SLE and gastrointestinal symptoms presented as abdominal pain, nausea and stoppage of the passage of flatus or stool without obvious reasons. The patient suffered from severe abdominal distension because of massive flatulence. Contrast-enhanced computed tomography (CT) of the abdomen performed in our hospital showed localized stenosis of the bowel, ureterohydronephrosis, and biliary tract dilatation. Endoscopy showed a stenotic segment located in the sigmoid colon. The colon biopsy samples suggested that the stenosis was caused by inflammatory tissues. Biochemical investigations showed hypoalbuminemia, electrolyte disturbance and decreased C3. Antinuclear antibody was positive. After careful assessment, transverse colostomy was performed for this patient. Gastrointestinal symptoms were clinically relieved after the surgery.
CONCLUSION: To the best of our knowledge, no VMDS patients have presented with mechanical ileus before. This case is the first documented occurrence of SLE with VMDS and mechanical intestinal obstruction symptoms relieved by surgery. Due to the low incidence of this condition, no standard treatment regimen has been established. However, surgical treatment offers significant benefit in specific situations.

Citation: Wen J, et al. Systemic lupus erythematosus simultaneously presenting with visceral muscle dysmotility syndrome and mechanical intestinal obstruction clinically relieved by surgery: a case report and literature review. Systemic lupus erythematosus simultaneously presenting with visceral muscle dysmotility syndrome and mechanical intestinal obstruction clinically relieved by surgery: a case report and literature review. 2022; 22:32. doi: 10.1186/s12876-022-02105-3

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35078416/
