PMID: 35079511
Title: Symptomatic Intracranial Artery Stenosis Due to an Unknown Embolus Following Cardiac Surgery: A Case Report.

Abstract: Intracranial artery occlusion due to a foreign body is a complication associated with cardiac surgery that is treated by various techniques. However, little is known about appropriate strategies for symptomatic intracranial artery stenosis due to an unknown embolic source. We reported a case of middle cerebral artery (MCA) stenosis after mitral valve repair (MVR) for infective endocarditis (IE). An 80-year-old man presented with right hemiplegia. MR angiography findings were normal, and diffusion-weighted imaging revealed subtle ischemic change in the left MCA territory. The patient was diagnosed with cardioembolic stroke owing to IE and performed MVR. Four days later, he suddenly presented with consciousness disorder and left hemiplegia. Computed tomography (CT) confirmed a very low-density area within the right MCA. MR angiography revealed right MCA stenosis, which corresponded to the low-density area on CT images. Diffusion-weighted imaging revealed new ischemic change in the right MCA territory. Angiography confirmed an irregular stenosis at the right M2 with antegrade blood flow, and the hemiplegia resolved during angiography. Conservative therapy was performed; however, the resting 123 I-IMP-single photon emission CT revealed moderate perfusion defect in the right MCA territory, and transient left hemiplegia appeared every few days. Therefore, 19 days after the initial transient ischemic attack, the patient was performed superficial temporal artery-MCA anastomosis, and the patient responded with a good clinical course without recurrence of the ischemic symptoms. This strategy may be a safe and effective treatment for symptomatic intracranial artery stenosis due to an unknown embolic source.

Citation: Nakahara M, et al. Symptomatic Intracranial Artery Stenosis Due to an Unknown Embolus Following Cardiac Surgery: A Case Report. Symptomatic Intracranial Artery Stenosis Due to an Unknown Embolus Following Cardiac Surgery: A Case Report. 2021; 8:513-518. doi: 10.2176/nmccrj.cr.2020-0404

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35079511/
