PMID: 35079538
Title: Management of Asymptomatic Vertebral Artery Injury Caused by a Cervical Pedicle Screw Malposition: Two Case Reports.

Abstract: Iatrogenic vertebral artery (VA) injury in cervical fusion is an extremely rare complication but can lead to serious sequelae. We present two successful cases of internal trapping for preventing delayed-onset ischemic stroke after iatrogenic VA stenosis caused by a cervical pedicle screw. A 34-year-old female underwent posterior cervical fusion for C4/C5 dislocation fracture. No neurological deficits were observed after the operation. However, the postoperative images revealed that the left C5 pedicle screw perforated the transverse foramen, and the left VA was suspected to be occluded at the screw insertion site. Before revision surgery, we tried to embolize the injured VA with coils. A microcatheter could be navigated from the ipsilateral VA to the distal of the screw, and internal trapping was performed with coils. Another case is that of a 50-year-old male with cervical spondylosis, who underwent posterior decompression and cervical fusion. The neurological symptoms did not deteriorate after the operation. However, the postoperative computed tomography images revealed the perforation of the right C3 transverse foramen by the pedicle screw. In right vertebral angiography, about 70% stenosis was observed at the screw insertion site. Although revision surgery was not planned due to good stability, we embolized the right VA after balloon occlusion test, to prevent the delayed-onset thromboembolic complications. Both the patients recovered without any neurological deficits. Iatrogenic VA injuries, even if asymptomatic immediately after surgery, can lead to serious sequelae in case of delayed-onset ischemic stroke. Therefore, careful attention should be paid when the screw perforates the transverse foramen.

Citation: Otsuka T, et al. Management of Asymptomatic Vertebral Artery Injury Caused by a Cervical Pedicle Screw Malposition: Two Case Reports. Management of Asymptomatic Vertebral Artery Injury Caused by a Cervical Pedicle Screw Malposition: Two Case Reports. 2021; 8:713-717. doi: 10.2176/nmccrj.cr.2021-0062

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35079538/
