PMID: 35079306
Title: A Case Report: Directional coronary atherectomy supported with optical coherence tomography is useful for the slit lesion.

Abstract: Directional coronary atherectomy (DCA) was revived in Japan in 2014. DCA is a special procedure to remove the atherosclerotic plaque of coronary artery during percutaneous coronary intervention. We present the case of a 91-year-old woman with symptoms of angina. Coronary angiography revealed significant stenosis with a slit lesion of the proximal left anterior descending artery. Because she had a high risk of bleeding, we did not want to implant a stent to prevent bleeding events. Then, we performed optical coherence tomography (OCT) and intravascular ultrasound to evaluate the morphology of the slit lesion in more detail. OCT showed clearly that the direction of the flap was counterclockwise and the edge of the flap was located in the epicardium. Since we could understand the localization of plaque distribution fully by OCT examination, we successfully removed the flap by DCA based on information from OCT. After that, we performed balloon dilatation with a 3.0-mm drug-coated balloon and finished without implanting the stent successfully. Her symptoms completely disappeared and postoperative course was good. DCA supported with OCT might be one of the options in high bleeding risk patients, suggesting a potential stent-less therapeutic option. &lt;Learning objective: There may be hesitation about implantation of stents in patients with high risk of bleeding, such as the elderly. Stent-less percutaneous coronary intervention using directional coronary atherectomy followed by drug-coated balloon under optical coherence tomography (OCT) guidance may be the one of the option for patients with a high risk of bleeding, because OCT can more clearly show the feature of the lesion and the effect of treatment compared to intravascular ultrasound.&gt;.

Citation: Niizeki T, et al. A Case Report: Directional coronary atherectomy supported with optical coherence tomography is useful for the slit lesion. A Case Report: Directional coronary atherectomy supported with optical coherence tomography is useful for the slit lesion. 2022; 25:91-94. doi: 10.1016/j.jccase.2021.07.002

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35079306/
