PMID: 35085848
Title: Combination of ultra-purified stem cells with an in situ-forming bioresorbable gel enhances intervertebral disc regeneration.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Lumbar intervertebral disc (IVD) herniations are associated with significant disability. Discectomy is the conventional treatment option for IVD herniations but causes a defect in the IVD, which has low self-repair ability, thereby representing a risk of further IVD degeneration. An acellular, bioresorbable, and good manufacturing practice (GMP)-compliant in situ-forming gel, which corrects discectomy-associated IVD defects and prevents further IVD degeneration had been developed. However, this acellular matrix-based strategy has certain limitations, particularly in elderly patients, whose tissues have low self-repair ability. The aim of this study was to investigate the therapeutic efficacy of using a combination of newly-developed, ultra-purified, GMP-compliant, human bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells (rapidly expanding clones; RECs) and the gel for IVD regeneration after discectomy in a sheep model of severe IVD degeneration.
METHODS: RECs and nucleus pulposus cells (NPCs) were co-cultured in the gel. In addition, RECs combined with the gel were implanted into IVDs following discectomy in sheep with degenerated IVDs.
FINDINGS: Gene expression of NPC markers, growth factors, and extracellular matrix increased significantly in the co-culture compared to that in each mono-culture. The REC and gel combination enhanced IVD regeneration after discectomy (up to 24 weeks) in the severe IVD degeneration sheep model.
INTERPRETATION: These findings demonstrate the translational potential of the combination of RECs with an in situ-forming gel for the treatment of herniations in degenerative human IVDs.
FUNDING: Ministry of Education, Culture, Sports, Science, and Technology of Japan, Japan Agency for Medical Research and Development, and the Mochida Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd.

Citation: Ukeba D, et al. Combination of ultra-purified stem cells with an in situ-forming bioresorbable gel enhances intervertebral disc regeneration. Combination of ultra-purified stem cells with an in situ-forming bioresorbable gel enhances intervertebral disc regeneration. 2022; 76:103845. doi: 10.1016/j.ebiom.2022.103845

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35085848/
