PMID: 35083121
Title: Angioplasty of Anomalous Coronaries Arising from the Opposite Sinus with an Interarterial Course, is it Safe?

Abstract: BACKGROUND: The coronary artery with an interarterial course CAIAC is the most threatening coronary anomaly, especially if it concerns the left coronary. Percutaneous coronary intervention PCI is scarcely described given its low prevalence and lack of long-term outcome data. Therefore, we assessed through this case series the feasibility and safety of PCI in this population.
METHODS: This is an observational multicentric study including patients with CAIAC arising from the opposite sinus of Valsalva. The primary endpoints were immediate angiographic success and target lesion revascularization.
RESULTS: During the period of the study, we performed 27235 PCI in six Cath labs, 26 procedures concerning abnormal coronaries including 12 with CAIAC. The median age was 57 years extremes: 43-78 with male predominance 1:11. Anomalous coronary artery was Right coronary artery RCA in eight patients, Left main LM in three patients, and left anterior descending LAD in one patient. The stenosis was located in all cases in proximal segments beyond the inter-arterial course proximal LAD, the superior genius of the RCA, or the proximal segment of mid-RCA. Five patients showed slit-like ostium and all have an angle take-off <45° on CT scan. After a median follow-up of 24 months, four subjects presented target lesion revascularization TLR, all were initially treated with either a bare-metal stent or with balloons.
CONCLUSIONS: PCI of patients with CAIAC is feasible and appears safe. The operator should carefully analyze the angiogram before PCI to choose the appropriate guiding catheter and should be acquainted with the different techniques for improving backup.

Citation: Hammami R, et al. Angioplasty of Anomalous Coronaries Arising from the Opposite Sinus with an Interarterial Course, is it Safe?. Angioplasty of Anomalous Coronaries Arising from the Opposite Sinus with an Interarterial Course, is it Safe?. 2021; 33:296-305. doi: 10.37616/2212-5043.1280

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35083121/
