PMID: 35083556
Title: Surgical exposure of the vertebral artery for endovascular access in a hybrid operating room.

Abstract: PURPOSE: Endovascular procedures are a desirable treatment option for neurovascular lesions in posterior circulation. However, endovascular access occasionally fails due to tortuosity of the proximal vertebral artery (VA), aortic arch, and/or VA ostium stenosis. We aimed to describe the creation of endovascular access via surgical exposure of the VA in a hybrid operating room to overcome anatomical difficulties hampering distal access to the VA through the transfemoral or transradial approach.
METHODS: We present six patients with seven posterior circulation lesions in whom distal access via the conventional approach to the VA was impossible. Surgical exposure of the VA was performed to provide endovascular access to these patients. Radiographic characteristics, operative techniques, and outcomes were reviewed.
RESULTS: Surgical exposure of the VA was performed in six patients with cerebral aneurysm (n = 4) and symptomatic stenosis of the VA ostium (n = 3). There were four female and two male patients, aged 73-82 years. Surgical exposure was usually performed beyond the tortuous segments of the VA. After endovascular access was provided, coil embolization was performed for cerebral aneurysms and/or balloon angioplasty and stenting was performed to treat the VA ostium stenosis. All puncture sites were closed by direct suture using a 7-0 Prolene suture. All procedures were completed without adverse events.
CONCLUSION: Endovascular access via surgical exposure of the VA is a feasible and safe alternative for patients in whom the femoral or radial route does not allow the navigation and stabilization of the guiding catheter into the proximal segment of the VA.

Citation: Choi E, et al. Surgical exposure of the vertebral artery for endovascular access in a hybrid operating room. Surgical exposure of the vertebral artery for endovascular access in a hybrid operating room. 2022; 164:1271-1280. doi: 10.1007/s00701-022-05136-7

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35083556/
