PMID: 35089215
Title: The effect of Huoxue Huayu decoction on restenosis after percutaneous coronary intervention in patients with coronary heart disease: A protocol for systematic review and meta-analysis.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI), as the most common treatment for coronary heart disease (CHD), has the advantages of simple operation, minimal invasion, rapid reconstruction, and vessels opening. The problem, however, is that many patients develop restenosis within 6 months after PCI. In traditional Chinese medicine (TCM), Huoxue Huayu decoction (HXHYD) is widely used to treat cardiovascular diseases, and its important role as a complementary and alternative therapy for the prevention and treatment of post-PCI restenosis in CHD patients has been extensively reported. However, controversy exists among different studies. Therefore, we collected relevant randomized controlled trials for a meta-analysis to assess the efficacy and safety of HXHYD in the prevention of post-PCI restenosis in patients with CHD.
METHODS: Randomized controlled trials of HXHYD in the prevention of post-PCI restenosis in patients with CHD will be retrieved from PubMed, Embase, Web of Science, Cochrane Library, China National Knowledge Infrastructure, Wan Fang Database, Chinese Biomedical Literature Database, VIP Database for Chinese Technical Periodicals, and Clinical Trial Register. The 2 authors will independently conduct the literature search, literature screening, data extraction, and quality assessment. Data analysis will be performed using STATA 14.0.
RESULTS: The results of this meta-analysis will be submitted to a peer-reviewed journal for publication.
CONCLUSION: This study will provide high-quality, evidence-based medical evidence for the efficacy and safety of HXHYD in the prevention of post-PCI restenosis in patients with CHD.
ETHICS AND DISSEMINATION: Ethical approval is not required for this study. The systematic review will be published in a peer-reviewed journal, presented at conferences, and shared on social media platforms. This review would be disseminated in a peer-reviewed journal or conference presentations.
OSF REGISTRATION NUMBER: DOI 10.17605/OSF.IO/PNZSM.

Citation: Hou Y, et al. The effect of Huoxue Huayu decoction on restenosis after percutaneous coronary intervention in patients with coronary heart disease: A protocol for systematic review and meta-analysis. The effect of Huoxue Huayu decoction on restenosis after percutaneous coronary intervention in patients with coronary heart disease: A protocol for systematic review and meta-analysis. 2022; 101:e28677. doi: 10.1097/MD.0000000000028677

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35089215/
