PMID: 35084585
Title: Long-term management of recurrent papillary thyroid carcinoma treated with lenvatinib for over 5 years: a case report.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Few reports exist of the long-term management of recurrent and progressive papillary thyroid carcinoma (PTC) with a tyrosine kinase inhibitor for over 5 years.
CASE PRESENTATION: A 57-year-old woman was referred to a psychiatric hospital for the treatment of schizophrenia. The patient had been diagnosed with a PTC at the age of 40 and subsequently underwent a left thyroid lobectomy. At 47, completion total thyroidectomy and lymph node dissection were performed and the patient assessed as radioactive iodine refractory postoperatively. External radiation therapy was performed for Rouviere lymph nodes. At 57, neck and mediastinal lymph nodes, and lung metastases had progressed, and the trachea became narrowed by para-tracheal lymph node compression. After 2 weeks of sorafenib therapy on an outpatient basis, the patient was discovered unconsciousness at home and transferred to hospital by ambulance; sorafenib therapy was stopped. The patient was diagnosed with reversible posterior leukoencephalopathy syndrome by brain magnetic resonance imaging. External radiation therapy to the site of the tracheal stenosis in the neck and mediastinum was performed. The patient's mental symptoms worsened, and she was referred to a psychiatric hospital, Kachi Memorial Hospital, in July 2015. In September, the patient's mental state stabilized and in November, after computed tomography revealed rapid disease progression, lenvatinib was commenced at a daily dose of 24 mg. Measurable solid recurrence sites were neck lymph nodes in the pre-laryngeal subcutaneous space, right lobe of the lung, and left adrenal. After 3 months, the tumors shrank in a partial response (PR). Because of several adverse events, occasional dose reductions or discontinuations of lenvatinib were sometimes necessary. Since re-starting lenvatinib, treatment with this for 51 consecutive months was achieved while maintaining a PR. Although a new bone metastasis was noted after 57 months of lenvatinib, treatment was continued for another 9 months. The patient subsequently passed away in June 2021.
CONCLUSIONS: The long-term treatment of recurrent PTC with lenvatinib was feasible, with manageable adverse events, for more than 5 years.

Citation: Imai T, et al. Long-term management of recurrent papillary thyroid carcinoma treated with lenvatinib for over 5 years: a case report. Long-term management of recurrent papillary thyroid carcinoma treated with lenvatinib for over 5 years: a case report. 2022; 8:21. doi: 10.1186/s40792-022-01374-0

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35084585/
