PMID: 35089923
Title: A three-dimensional multiscale model for the prediction of thrombus growth under flow with single-platelet resolution.

Abstract: Modeling thrombus growth in pathological flows allows evaluation of risk under patient-specific pharmacological, hematological, and hemodynamical conditions. We have developed a 3D multiscale framework for the prediction of thrombus growth under flow on a spatially resolved surface presenting collagen and tissue factor (TF). The multiscale framework is composed of four coupled modules: a Neural Network (NN) that accounts for platelet signaling, a Lattice Kinetic Monte Carlo (LKMC) simulation for tracking platelet positions, a Finite Volume Method (FVM) simulator for solving convection-diffusion-reaction equations describing agonist release and transport, and a Lattice Boltzmann (LB) flow solver for computing the blood flow field over the growing thrombus. A reduced model of the coagulation cascade was embedded into the framework to account for TF-driven thrombin production. The 3D model was first tested against in vitro microfluidics experiments of whole blood perfusion with various antiplatelet agents targeting COX-1, P2Y1, or the IP receptor. The model was able to accurately capture the evolution and morphology of the growing thrombus. Certain problems of 2D models for thrombus growth (artifactual dendritic growth) were naturally avoided with realistic trajectories of platelets in 3D flow. The generalizability of the 3D multiscale solver enabled simulations of important clinical situations, such as cylindrical blood vessels and acute flow narrowing (stenosis). Enhanced platelet-platelet bonding at pathologically high shear rates (e.g., von Willebrand factor unfolding) was required for accurately describing thrombus growth in stenotic flows. Overall, the approach allows consideration of patient-specific platelet signaling and vascular geometry for the prediction of thrombotic episodes.

Citation: Shankar KN, et al. A three-dimensional multiscale model for the prediction of thrombus growth under flow with single-platelet resolution. A three-dimensional multiscale model for the prediction of thrombus growth under flow with single-platelet resolution. 2022; 18:e1009850. doi: 10.1371/journal.pcbi.1009850

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35089923/
