PMID: 35099044
Title: A study of coronary dominance and its clinical significance.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Coronary artery disease is the most common cause of morbidity and mortality especially in the developing countries. The aim of the study was to find out cardiac dominance percentages and its association with coronary artery stenosis among each pattern of dominance. The objectives were to assess coronary vessel morphology of patients within each pattern of dominance, to find if gender differences exist among dominance patterns and also to find the distribution percentages of stenosis among dominance patterns.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Four thousand angiograms from patients of Indian origin were studied prospectively after procuring the sanction for the same from the ethical committee of the pre-selected hospitals from four states of South India. Informed consents were obtained. Post coronary artery bypass grafting, post percutaneous coronary intervention patients and patient being diabetic for ≥ 5 years were excluded from the study.
RESULTS: Right cardiac dominance was seen in 85.5%, left in 9.7%, and co-dominant in 4.8% cases. The percentages of dominance were almost similar among both genders except for left dominance which were higher among male samples. The diameter of right coronary artery and left circumflex coronary artery coronary arteries were significantly associated with dominance patterns. The prevalence of stenosis was more for left dominance patterns, followed by right dominance patterns and least for co-dominant patterns.
CONCLUSIONS: There is a necessity to see association between dominance patterns with the coronary artery disease which can help the interventional cardiologists. The disease patterns in the present study were predominantly in the left dominant or in the co-dominant hearts.

Citation: Aricatt DP, et al. A study of coronary dominance and its clinical significance. A study of coronary dominance and its clinical significance. 2023; 82:102-107. doi: 10.5603/FM.a2022.0005

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35099044/
