PMID: 35099133
Title: Impact of Sublingual Nitroglycerin on the Assessment of Computed Tomography-derived Fractional Flow Reserve: An Intraindividual Comparison Study.

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: The aim of this study was to investigate the impact of nitroglycerin (NTG) on the assessment of computed tomography-derived fractional flow reserve (CT-FFR).
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Seventy-seven patients with suspected coronary artery disease were recruited, and they underwent computed tomography angiography (CCTA) before and after NTG administration. The CT-FFRs were compared at 2 CCTAs. The difference was compared using the Wilcoxon signed rank test. Patients were divided into normal and stenosis groups according to CCTA results. Vessels in the stenosis group were further divided into different groups based on coronary artery calcium score (CACS) and stenosis degree. The poststenotic CT-FFR differences before and after NTG (DCT-FFR) were calculated to evaluate the impact of stenosis degree and CACS. Terminal CT-FFRs derived from CCTAs before and after NTG in total and vessel-specific levels were compared in the normal group.
RESULTS: Of 47 patients in the stenosis group, poststenotic CT-FFR was significantly increased after NTG at per-vessel level. By taking CT-FFR of 0.75 or lower as the threshold, 5 and 4 patients showed abnormal CT-FFR before and after NTG, respectively. No significant differences were noted among the various stenosis degree and CACS groups regarding DCT-FFR. Of 30 patients in the normal group, terminal CT-FFR was significantly increased after NTG in total level and vessel-specific level of left anterior descending and right coronary artery, but not in the left circumflex.
CONCLUSIONS: Both post lesion and distal vessel CT-FFR significantly improved after the administration of GTN with the degree of change not affected by stenosis severity or CACS.

Citation: Gao Y, et al. Impact of Sublingual Nitroglycerin on the Assessment of Computed Tomography-derived Fractional Flow Reserve: An Intraindividual Comparison Study. Impact of Sublingual Nitroglycerin on the Assessment of Computed Tomography-derived Fractional Flow Reserve: An Intraindividual Comparison Study. 2022; 46:23-28. doi: 10.1097/RCT.0000000000001244

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35099133/
