PMID: 35094243
Title: Endoscopic tissue shielding with polyglycolic acid sheet, fibrin glue, and endoclip for perforation during balloon dilation for esophageal stricture after endoscopic submucosal dissection.

Abstract: Esophageal endoscopic submucosal dissection can cause esophageal strictures. Endoscopic balloon dilation is the standard treatment for esophageal strictures, but has complications, including perforation, and sometimes requires surgery. We report a case of perforation during endoscopic balloon dilation for esophageal stricture secondary to esophageal submucosal dissection that was successfully treated conservatively. A 66-year-old man with superficial carcinoma in the upper thoracic esophagus underwent circumferential endoscopic submucosal dissection with local steroid injections. Endoscopic balloon dilation was performed weekly for esophageal stricture. However, during the sixth procedure, an attempt to increase the size of the balloon to 13.5 mm resulted in perforation. The patient was treated conservatively using polyglycolic acid sheet with fibrin glue at the perforation site, which was fixed using an endoclip. However, the esophageal stricture persisted after the perforation was closed and Endoscopic balloon dilation was carefully repeated twice weekly up to a maximum of 17 mm, and the endoscope was able to pass through, and associated symptoms improved. This report indicates that endoscopic tissue shielding using polyglycolic acid sheet with fibrin glue and endoclip to correct perforation, followed by additional endoscopic balloon dilation, is an alternative to surgery.

Citation: Kasuga K, et al. Endoscopic tissue shielding with polyglycolic acid sheet, fibrin glue, and endoclip for perforation during balloon dilation for esophageal stricture after endoscopic submucosal dissection. Endoscopic tissue shielding with polyglycolic acid sheet, fibrin glue, and endoclip for perforation during balloon dilation for esophageal stricture after endoscopic submucosal dissection. 2022; 15:320-324. doi: 10.1007/s12328-021-01572-7

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35094243/
