PMID: 35090437
Title: Sequential endoscopic and robot-assisted surgical solutions for a rare fungal spondylodiscitis, secondary lumbar spinal stenosis, and subsequent discal pseudocyst causing acute cauda equina syndrome: a case report.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Fungal spondylodiscitis is a rare infectious disease. The secondary lumbar spinal stenosis and postoperative discal pseudocyst were even rarer. The surgical interventions were disputed, yet endoscopic and robot-assisted techniques may be helpful under different circumstances.
CASE PRESENTATION: A 62-year-old female was diagnosed as infectious spondylodiscitis at the L4/5 level and a posterolateral endoscopic debridement was performed after invalid conservative therapy. Causative organism culture revealed a rare fungus, Candida tropicalis. A secondary spinal stenosis with refractory radiculopathy occurred almost 3 years after the first surgery and a successful endoscopic surgery was implemented aiming to decompress the nerve in a minimally invasive way. However, 2 months later, the patient manifested severe acute cauda equina syndrome and radiological examinations suggested a rare postoperative discal pseudocyst. A laminectomy followed by a pseudocystectomy was applied to achieve thorough decompression. An innovative double trajectory system (simultaneous traditional pedicle screw and cortical bone trajectory screw) accompanied by posterolateral fusion was designed and executed by the professional robot-assisted system.
CONCLUSION: Endoscopic and robot-assisted techniques may provide alternative solutions for fungal spondylodiscitis and accompanied sequelae.

Citation: Wang C, et al. Sequential endoscopic and robot-assisted surgical solutions for a rare fungal spondylodiscitis, secondary lumbar spinal stenosis, and subsequent discal pseudocyst causing acute cauda equina syndrome: a case report. Sequential endoscopic and robot-assisted surgical solutions for a rare fungal spondylodiscitis, secondary lumbar spinal stenosis, and subsequent discal pseudocyst causing acute cauda equina syndrome: a case report. 2022; 22:34. doi: 10.1186/s12893-022-01493-3

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35090437/
