PMID: 35108560
Title: Assessment and Management of Transplant Renal Artery Stenosis. A Literature Review.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Transplant renal artery stenosis (TRAS) following kidney transplantation is a possible cause of graft failure. This review aimed to summarize the evidence about physiopathology, diagnosis and early and late effectiveness of the endovascular treatment (EVT), including angioplasty and stenting procedures.
METHODS: A literature research was performed using Pubmed, Scopus and the Cochrane Library databases (January 2000-September 2020) according to PRISMA guidelines. Studies were included if they describe EVT, percutaneous transluminal angioplasty or stent placement of TRAS, published in English and with a minimum of ten patients.
RESULTS: Fifty-six studies were included. TRAS incidence ranges from 1% up to 12% in transplanted kidneys. The TRAS risk factors were: elderly donor and recipient, cytomegalovirus match status, Class II Donor Specific Antibodies (DSA), expanded donor criteria, delayed graft functioning and other anatomical and technical factors. The highest frequency of TRAS presentation is after 3-6 months after kidney transplantation. The most frequent localization of stenosis was para-anastomotic (ranging from 25% to 78%). In 9 studies, all patients were treated by percutaneous transluminal angioplasty (PTA), in 16 studies all patients received percutaneous transluminal stenting (PTS) and in 21 series patients received either PTA or PTS. The twelve months patency rates after EVT ranged from 72% to 94%. The overall complication rate was 9%, with pseudoaneurysms and hematomas as most frequent complications.
CONCLUSIONS: TRAS can be successfully and safely treated through an endovascular approach. Stent delivery seems to guarantee a higher patency rate compared to simple angioplasty, however further studies are needed to confirm these results.

Citation: Pini A, et al. Assessment and Management of Transplant Renal Artery Stenosis. A Literature Review. Assessment and Management of Transplant Renal Artery Stenosis. A Literature Review. 2022; 82:13-29. doi: 10.1016/j.avsg.2022.01.011

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35108560/
