PMID: 35101804
Title: Rotational Vertebrobasilar Insufficiency: Is There a Physiological Spectrum? Phase-Contrast Magnetic Resonance Imaging Quantification in Healthy Volunteers.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Some cases of cerebral ischemia have been attributed to dynamic flow limitation in neck vessels. It however remains unknown whether this represents the extreme end of a physiological response.
METHODS: Eighteen healthy volunteers were recruited to this prospective study. Cervical blood flow (ml/min/m2) was assessed using phase-contrast MRI, and cerebral perfusion ratios were assessed using arterial spin labeling perfusion at neutral position, predefined head rotations, as well as flexion and extension. Inter-reader agreements were assessed using intraclass correlation coefficient.
RESULTS: The mean age was 38.6 ± 10.8 (range = 22-56) years, for five male participants and 13 females. The means for height and weight were 168 cm and 73.2 kg, respectively. There were no significant differences in individual arterial blood flow with change in head position (P > 0.05). Similarly, the repeated-measures analysis of variance test demonstrated no significant difference in perfusion ratios in relation to head position movement (P > 0.05). Inter-reader agreement was excellent (intraclass correlation coefficient = 0.97).
CONCLUSIONS: There is neither significant change in either individual cervical arterial blood flow nor cerebral perfusion within the normal physiological/anatomical range of motion in healthy individuals. It is therefore reasonable to conclude that any such hemodynamic change identified in a patient with ischemic stroke be considered causative.

Citation: Dmytriw AA, et al. Rotational Vertebrobasilar Insufficiency: Is There a Physiological Spectrum? Phase-Contrast Magnetic Resonance Imaging Quantification in Healthy Volunteers. Rotational Vertebrobasilar Insufficiency: Is There a Physiological Spectrum? Phase-Contrast Magnetic Resonance Imaging Quantification in Healthy Volunteers. 2022; 128:58-64. doi: 10.1016/j.pediatrneurol.2021.12.005

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35101804/
