PMID: 35117568
Title: Impact of gastroesophageal reflux in the pathogenesis of tracheal stenosis.

Abstract: Benign airway stenosis is a multifactorial and heterogeneous disease often occurring after tracheal intubation. Despite the frequent finding of pathological gastroesophageal reflux (GER) in benign tracheal stenosis, the cause-and-effect relationship between these two entities and its impact on the outcome of the stenosis itself have not been established. The altered ventilatory dynamics caused by an increased thoracoabdominal pressure gradient in such patients has been proposed as a central cause. The presence of GER in a setting of microaspiration can also induce changes in the local collagen proliferation response, as well as in the local microbiome of the tracheal stenosis site, which may potentially cause and enhance the harm imposed to the already diseased tracheal wall. Diagnosis of GER remains underestimated in the general population, thus making its accurate detection and treatment in central airway stenosis a matter of investigation. The high prevalence of GER in tracheal stenosis patients often occurs in the absence of typical upper digestive signs and symptoms, therefore requiring an objective assessment using a 24-hour ambulatory esophageal pH/impedance study that has shown abnormal results in more than half the patients. The impact of the treatment of GER in patients with benign tracheal has been scarcely reported. Our group showed recently that the surgical control of GER through laparoscopic fundoplication in selected patients with tracheal stenosis can improve substantially the chance of resolution of the tracheal stenosis as opposed to the medical management with high dose proton pump inhibitors. This chapter describes the impact of GER in the pathogenesis of tracheal stenosis with a focus on its mechanisms, diagnosis and treatment strategy.

Citation: Cardoso PFG, et al. Impact of gastroesophageal reflux in the pathogenesis of tracheal stenosis. Impact of gastroesophageal reflux in the pathogenesis of tracheal stenosis. 2020; 9:2123-2135. doi: 10.21037/tcr.2020.03.24

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35117568/
