PMID: 35118312
Title: Autogenous pericardial angioplasty for thymic malignancies: a narrative review.

Abstract: Locally advanced thymic tumor usually invades adjacent great vessels, while the optimal treatment strategy for vessels resection and prosthetic replacement is still in controversial. We hereby present our series of patients undergoing autologous pericardial angioplasty for thymic malignancies. For invasive thymic tumors involving the superior vena cava (SVC), the replacement vessel was prepared by autologous pericardium and placed between the right atrium and distal left innominate vein stump to establish a SVC bypass. Then, the distal right innominate vein and proximal SVC were blocked, and the thymic tumor and involved vessel were completely resected, followed by SVC reconstruction using pericardium. We retrospectively analyzed the clinical characteristics and short-term outcomes of six related patients with autologous pericardial angioplasty. Due to the homologous advantages of autologous pericardial transplantation, those patients didn't need to receive anticoagulant therapy during the perioperative period, so as to avoid the occurrence of hemorrhage, embolism and other graft-related complications. There were no postoperative long-term thoracic drainage (>7 days), anastomotic bleeding, reconstructed vascular stenosis, embolism or even secondary thoracotomy and other related complications occurred in this case series. The application of autologous pericardium for the replacement of mediastinal great vessels in the surgery of locally advanced thymoma is a safe and effective technique. Compared with former artificial materials, such as polytetrafluoroethylene synthetic prosthesis, autologous pericardial transplantation avoids the occurrence of high risk graft-related complications such as postoperative hemorrhage and vascular stenosis, and its clinical application prospect is worth expecting.

Citation: Gao HJ, et al. Autogenous pericardial angioplasty for thymic malignancies: a narrative review. Autogenous pericardial angioplasty for thymic malignancies: a narrative review. 2021; 5:6. doi: 10.21037/med-20-57

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35118312/
