PMID: 35111825
Title: Comparison of Myocardial Layer-Specific Strain and Global Myocardial Work Efficiency During Treadmill Exercise Stress in Detecting Significant Coronary Artery Disease.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Myocardial layer-specific strain can identify myocardial ischemia. Global myocardial work efficiency (GWE) based on non-invasive left ventricular (LV) pressure-strain loops is a novel parameter to determine LV function considering afterload. The study aimed to compare the diagnostic value of GWE and myocardial layer-specific strain during treadmill exercise stress testing to detect significant coronary artery disease (CAD) with normal baseline wall motion.
METHODS: Eighty-nine patients who referred for coronary angiography due to suspected of CAD were included. Forty patients with severe coronary artery stenosis were diagnosed with significant CAD, and 49 were defined as non-significant CAD. Stress echocardiography was performed 24 h before angiography. Layer-specific longitudinal strains were assessed from the endocardium, mid-myocardium, and epicardium by 2D speckle-tracking echocardiography. Binary logistic regression analyses were performed to evaluate the association between significant CAD and echocardiographic parameters. A receiver operating characteristic curve was used to assess the capability of layer-specific strain and GWE to diagnose significant CAD.
RESULTS: Patients with significant CAD had the worse function in all three myocardial layers at peak exercise compared with those with non-significant CAD when assessed with global longitudinal strain (GLS). At the peak exercise and recovery periods, GWE was lower in patients with significant CAD than in patients with non-significant CAD. In multivariable binary logistic regression analysis, peak endocardial GLS (OR: 1.35, p = 0.006) and peak GWE (OR: 0.76, p = 0.001) were associated with significant CAD. Receiver operating characteristic curves showed peak GWE to be superior to mid-myocardial, epicardial, and endocardial GLS in identifying significant CAD. Further, adding peak GWE to endocardial GLS could improve diagnostic capabilities.
CONCLUSIONS: Both GWE and endocardial GLS contribute to improving the diagnostic performance of exercise stress echocardiography. Furthermore, adding peak GWE to peak endocardial GLS provides incremental diagnostic value during a non-invasive screening of significant CAD before radioactive or invasive examinations.

Citation: Lin J, et al. Comparison of Myocardial Layer-Specific Strain and Global Myocardial Work Efficiency During Treadmill Exercise Stress in Detecting Significant Coronary Artery Disease. Comparison of Myocardial Layer-Specific Strain and Global Myocardial Work Efficiency During Treadmill Exercise Stress in Detecting Significant Coronary Artery Disease. 2021; 8:786943. doi: 10.3389/fcvm.2021.786943

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35111825/
