PMID: 35119025
Title: A reliable nomogram model for predicting esophageal stricture after endoscopic submucosal dissection.

Abstract: Currently, endoscopic submucosal dissection (ESD) has gradually become the diagnosis and treatment of choice for initial esophageal cancer. However, the formation of esophageal stricture after ESD is one of its important complications. In this paper, we intend to identify the risk factors of esophageal stricture to develop a nomogram model to predict the risk of esophageal stricture and validate this model.A total, 159 patients were included in this study, including 21 patients with esophageal stenosis. Multivariate analysis showed that age greater than 60 years, high neutrophil-to-lymphocyte ratio, the extent of esophageal mucosal defect greater than 1/2, and postoperative pathological type of early esophageal squamous cell carcinoma were independent risk factors for predicting esophageal stricture. We constructed a nomogram model to predict esophageal stenosis by these 4 independent predictors.The prediction performance of the model was verified by the area under the receiver operating characteristic curve, the area under the receiver operating characteristic curve of the model was 0.889, and the sensitivity and specificity were 80.00% and 91.28%, respectively, indicating that the prediction performance of the model was good; The calibration curve constructed by internal cross-validation suggested that the predicted results of the nomogram agreed well with the actual observed values.The nomogram model has a high accuracy for predicting esophageal stricture after esophageal ESD and is extremely important to reduce or avoid the occurrence of esophageal stricture. But it needs more external and prospective validation.

Citation: Yang G, et al. A reliable nomogram model for predicting esophageal stricture after endoscopic submucosal dissection. A reliable nomogram model for predicting esophageal stricture after endoscopic submucosal dissection. 2022; 101:e28741. doi: 10.1097/MD.0000000000028741

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35119025/
