PMID: 35127221
Title: Giant cell arteritis with simultaneous onset of multiple intracranial vascular occlusions: A case report.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Giant cell arteritis (GCA) causes severe stenosis or occlusion of the arteries but rarely affects the intracranial arteries. We report a rare case of GCA along with autopsy results.
CASE DESCRIPTION: A 69-year-old man developed gait disturbance due to vertebral artery (VA) occlusion. As is common in atherothrombotic stroke, dual antiplatelet therapy was administered. The patient's symptoms improved temporarily. However, his symptoms relapsed and his consciousness was acutely disturbed. Digital subtraction angiography revealed an appearance of stenosis of the internal carotid artery (ICA) C2 portion on the right side and decreased retrograde basilar artery (BA) blood flow through the right posterior communicating artery. Balloon angioplasty was performed, and BA blood flow increased. GCA was suspected, and a definitive diagnosis was made based on temporal artery biopsy findings. Steroid therapy was initiated but failed to control disease progression, and the patient died. The autopsy findings revealed GCA in the bilateral ICAs and VAs, and no signs of GCA were found in other intracranial arteries, despite occlusion on magnetic resonance angiography.
CONCLUSION: GCA of the intracranial blood vessels is rare and might be more likely to occur in the ICAs and VAs than in other intracranial blood vessels. GCA of the intracranial blood vessels has a poor prognosis, and as such, if rapid changes are observed in the ICAs or VAs, GCA should be considered a part of the differential diagnosis and immediate treatment should be administered.

Citation: Shigeyasu M, et al. Giant cell arteritis with simultaneous onset of multiple intracranial vascular occlusions: A case report. Giant cell arteritis with simultaneous onset of multiple intracranial vascular occlusions: A case report. 2022; 13:21. doi: 10.25259/SNI_1001_2021

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35127221/
