PMID: 35124533
Title: Reversible Cerebral Vasoconstriction Syndrome and Multisystem Inflammatory Syndrome in Children With COVID-19.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Multisystem inflammatory syndrome in children (MIS-C) involves multiple organs and shows increased inflammatory markers. Since the onset of the coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic, several studies have reported the association between severe COVID-19 and MIS-C. Reversible cerebral vasoconstriction syndrome (RCVS) presents with thunderclap headaches and multifocal reversible vasoconstriction on imaging. RCVS is very rare in children. This article reports two cases of pediatric COVID-19 with severe MIS-C and clinical and imaging features indicative of RCVS.
METHODS: Clinical, laboratory, and imaging data of the patients were reviewed. The diagnosis of RCVS was confirmed based on clinical symptomatology and brain magnetic resonance imaging findings.
RESULTS: Two pediatric patients with clinical findings compatible with severe MIS-C and hemodynamic compromise presented to the hospital. During their hospitalization course, they developed thunderclap headaches and neurological deficits. Both were receiving vasoactive agents, intravenous immunoglobulin, and immunosuppressants. Imaging studies showed marked multifocal cerebral vasoconstriction in both cases and infarcts in one. The course and management of the patients will be presented. After controlling inflammation and elimination of triggers, both patients were ultimately symptom free upon discharge. Cerebral vasoconstriction had completely resolved on follow-up imaging.
CONCLUSIONS: Although a variety of symptoms including headaches may be seen in pediatric COVID-19 patients with MIS-C, RCVS should be considered as a differential diagnosis in cases of thunderclap headache accompanied by neurological signs in these patients. Imaging findings and follow-up are also key in establishing the diagnosis.

Citation: Sadeghizadeh A, et al. Reversible Cerebral Vasoconstriction Syndrome and Multisystem Inflammatory Syndrome in Children With COVID-19. Reversible Cerebral Vasoconstriction Syndrome and Multisystem Inflammatory Syndrome in Children With COVID-19. 2022; 129:1-6. doi: 10.1016/j.pediatrneurol.2021.12.013

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35124533/
