PMID: 35121588
Title: Impact Analysis of Different CT Configurations of Carotid Artery Plaque Calcifications on Cerebrovascular Events.

Abstract: BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: CT is considered the standard reference both for quantification and characterization of carotid artery calcifications. Our aim was to investigate the relationship among different types of calcium configurations detected with CT within the plaque with a novel classification and to investigate the prevalence of cerebrovascular events.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Seven hundred ninety patients (men = 332; mean age, 69.7 [SD, 13] years; 508 symptomatic for cerebrovascular symptoms and 282 asymptomatic) who underwent computed tomography of the carotid arteries were retrospectively included in this institutional review board-approved study. The plaque was classified into 6 types according to the different types of calcium configurations as the following: type 1, complete absence of calcification within the plaque; type 2, intimal or superficial calcifications; type 3, deep or bulky calcifications; type 4, adventitial calcifications with internal soft plaque of <2 mm thickness; type 5, mixed patterns with intimal and bulky calcifications; and type 6, positive rim sign.
RESULTS: The highest prevalence of cerebrovascular events was observed for type 6, for which 89 of the 99 cases were symptomatic. Type 6 plaque had the highest degree of correlation with TIA, stroke, symptoms, and ipsilateral infarct for both sides with a higher prevalence in younger patients. The frequency of symptoms observed by configuration type significantly differed between right and left plaques, with symptoms observed more frequently in type 6 calcification on the right side (50/53; 94%) than on the left side (39/46; 85%, P &lt; .001).
CONCLUSIONS: We propose a novel carotid artery plaque configuration classification that is associated with the prevalence of cerebrovascular events. If confirmed in longitudinal analysis, this classification could be used to stratify the risk of occurrence of ischemic events.

Citation: Saba L, et al. Impact Analysis of Different CT Configurations of Carotid Artery Plaque Calcifications on Cerebrovascular Events. Impact Analysis of Different CT Configurations of Carotid Artery Plaque Calcifications on Cerebrovascular Events. 2022; 43:272-279. doi: 10.3174/ajnr.A7401

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35121588/
