PMID: 35120975
Title: Quantified flow and angioarchitecture show similar associations with hemorrhagic presentation of brain arteriovenous malformations.

Abstract: INTRODUCTION: The purpose of our study was to elucidate the impact of brain arteriovenous malformation (BAVM) flow and wall shear stress (WSS) on angioarchitecture and to evaluate their association with hemorrhagic presentations.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Forty-one patients with BAVMs were evaluated by phase-contrast MR angiography. Volume flow rate and WSS were quantified. Angioarchitectural features such as location, angiogenesis, venous stenosis, venous ectasia, venous phlebitis, venous rerouting, exclusive deep vein and venous sac were evaluated by two neuroradiologists. The correlation between BAVM flow and size was evaluated with Spearman correlation coefficients. Differences of size, flow, and WSS between the hemorrhagic and non-hemorrhagic groups, the seizure and non-seizure groups, and between the different groups based on angioarchitecture were evaluated with Mann-Whitney U tests. Accuracy in predicting hemorrhage was evaluated with receiver operating characteristic curves.
RESULT: BAVM flow was highly correlated with volume (ρ = 0.77). Higher flow was more commonly associated with angiogenesis, venous ectasia, venous rerouting, and venous phlebitis. Flow and angioarchitecture showed similar efficacy in differentiating hemorrhagic from non-hemorrhagic BAVMs. WSS did not demonstrate differences across any clinical groups.
CONCLUSION: Flow quantification and angioarchitecture analysis of BAVMs showed similar efficacy as evaluated by associations with hemorrhagic presentation. High flow affects both arterial and venous angioarchitecture, reflecting the nature of low vascular resistance in BAVMs.

Citation: Lin CJ, et al. Quantified flow and angioarchitecture show similar associations with hemorrhagic presentation of brain arteriovenous malformations. Quantified flow and angioarchitecture show similar associations with hemorrhagic presentation of brain arteriovenous malformations. 2023; 50:79-85. doi: 10.1016/j.neurad.2022.01.061

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35120975/
