PMID: 35126548
Title: Efficacy and safety of shockwave intravascular lithotripsy (S-IVL) in calcified unprotected left main percutaneous coronary intervention - short-term outcomes.

Abstract: INTRODUCTION: Left main (LM) disease is associated with a large myocardial ischemic territory. Calcification with co-existing undilatable lesions is a predictor of poor clinical outcomes following LM percutaneous coronary interventions (PCI).
AIM: To evaluate the safety and efficiency of shockwave intravascular lithotripsy (S-IVL) in highly calcified LM diseases.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: The study population consisted of sixteen patients qualified for PCI - mainly males (81.3%) with coronary artery disease (CAD) treated with left main S-IVL PCI due to unsuccessful attempts of plaque modification with a non-compliant (NC) balloon catheter, or rotational devices. Clinical success was defined as effective stent delivery and deployment (with less than < 20% in-stent residual stenosis) with preserved coronary flow TIMI-3 (Thrombolysis in Myocardial Infarction) at the end of the procedure.
RESULTS: The most frequent indication for PCI was acute coronary syndrome (ACS) (62.5%). In these high-risk (average Syntax score 24) patients, clinical success of PCI was achieved in 100% of cases. In the short-term observation, we recorded two major adverse cardiac and cerebrovascular events (MACCE) including one fatal, acute stent thrombosis.
CONCLUSIONS: Our data suggest that the use of S-IVL is safe and effective as a bail-out strategy to manage LM lesions resistant to high-pressure NC balloon inflation. Despite encouraging initial results, future large studies with long-term observation are required to evaluate the safety and efficacy of S-IVL in LM stenosis.

Citation: Rola P, et al. Efficacy and safety of shockwave intravascular lithotripsy (S-IVL) in calcified unprotected left main percutaneous coronary intervention - short-term outcomes. Efficacy and safety of shockwave intravascular lithotripsy (S-IVL) in calcified unprotected left main percutaneous coronary intervention - short-term outcomes. 2021; 17:344-348. doi: 10.5114/aic.2021.112524

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35126548/
