PMID: 35137010
Title: Transvalvular jet velocity, aortic valve area, mortality, and cardiovascular outcomes.

Abstract: AIMS: The interplay between aortic stenosis (AS), cardiovascular events, and mortality is poorly understood. In addition, how echocardiographic indices compare for predicting outcomes remains unexplored for the full range of AS severity.
METHODS AND RESULTS: We prospectively calculated peak jet velocity (Vmax) and aortic valve area (AVA) in 5994 adult subjects with and without AS. We linked ultrasound data to 5-year mortality and clinical events obtained from electronic medical records. Proportional-hazard and negative binomial regression models were adjusted for relevant covariables such as age, sex, comorbidities, stroke-volume, LV ejection fraction, left valve regurgitation, aortic valve sclerosis or calcification, and valve replacement. We observed a strong linear relationship between Vmax and all-cause mortality (hazard ratio: 1.26, 95% confidence interval: 1.19-1.33 per 100 cm/s), cardiovascular events, as well as incidental and recurrent heart failure (HF). Adjusted risks were highly significant even at Vmax values in the range of 150-200 cm/s, risk curves separating very early after the index exam. Vmax was not associated with coronary, arrhythmic, cerebrovascular, or non-cardiovascular events. Although risks were confirmed when AVA was entered in place of Vmax, the risks estimated for categories based on the two indices were mismatched, even in patients with normal flow. An external cohort comprising 112 690 patients confirmed augmented risks of all-cause and cardiovascular mortality starting at values of Vmax and AVA in the range of mild AS.
CONCLUSIONS: Aortic stenosis is strongly associated to all-cause mortality, cardiovascular mortality, and cardiac events, specifically HF. Risks increase in parallel to the degree of outflow obstruction but are apparent very early in patients with mild disease. Criteria for grading AS based on Vmax and AVA are mismatched in terms of outcomes.

Citation: Alcón B, et al. Transvalvular jet velocity, aortic valve area, mortality, and cardiovascular outcomes. Transvalvular jet velocity, aortic valve area, mortality, and cardiovascular outcomes. 2022; 23:601-612. doi: 10.1093/ehjci/jeac003

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35137010/
