PMID: 35134910
Title: Surgical outcomes of pulmonary artery sling and congenital tracheal stenosis with right lung anomaly.

Abstract: OBJECTIVES: This study aimed to investigate whether computed tomographic indices support surgical decision-making in patients with pulmonary artery sling, congenital tracheal stenosis and right lung underdevelopment.
METHODS: A total of 38 patients with pulmonary artery sling and congenital tracheal stenosis underwent tracheoplasty. Patients were divided into 3 groups based on anatomical categorization: group normal lung (NL; n = 21), group H (right lung hypoplasia, n = 12) and group A (right lung agenesis or aplasia, n = 5). Using preoperative computed tomographic images, the severity of the tracheal bending due to the right posterior deviation of the aortic arch and the relative length of the left pulmonary artery for reimplantation was evaluated.
RESULTS: Slide tracheoplasty posterior to the aortic arch with pulmonary artery reimplantation was performed in 32 patients (21, 10 and 1 in groups NL, H and A, respectively). Slide tracheoplasty anterior to the aortic arch was performed in 4 patients (2 patients each in groups H and A). Among the 6 patients with severe tracheal bending who underwent slide tracheoplasty posterior to the aortic arch, 5 required aortopexy for tracheomalacia. The overall mortality rate was 3% (group NL, n = 1). The relative length of the left pulmonary artery in group H (0.85) was significantly shorter than that in group NL (1.36, P < 0.0001).
CONCLUSIONS: In patients with right lung underdevelopment, preoperative computed tomography elucidated the tracheal bending due to right posterior deviation of the aortic arch, which compromised tracheoplasty and shortness of the left pulmonary artery for pulmonary artery sling repair.

Citation: Wada Y, et al. Surgical outcomes of pulmonary artery sling and congenital tracheal stenosis with right lung anomaly. Surgical outcomes of pulmonary artery sling and congenital tracheal stenosis with right lung anomaly. 2022; 61:1290-1297. doi: 10.1093/ejcts/ezac070

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35134910/
