PMID: 35136729
Title: Effect of local anti-vascular endothelial growth factor therapy to prevent the formation of stenosis in outflow vein in arteriovenous fistula.

Abstract: BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES: Vascular stenosis and angiogenesis are the major causes of short expectancy of arteriovenous fistula (AVF). Increased expression of vascular endothelial growth factor-A (VEGF-A) has been suggested to play an important role in the pathophysiologic process. Anti-VEGF has been proved to be effective on anti-angiogenesis and applied in clinical practice, but its effect on anti-stenosis remains to be verified before it could be applied to prevent stenosis of AVF. This study was aimed to evaluate the effect of local anti-VEGF therapy to prevent the formation of stenosis in the outflow vein in AVF and its mechanism.
METHODS: Bioinformatics of VEGF-A and its downstream-regulated molecules from the STRING PPI database were analyzed in this study. The biopsy samples from outflow veins of AVF in patients and C57BL/6 mouse models were analyzed to examine the mechanisms of pathologic vascular stenosis associated with VEGF pathways and their potential therapeutic targets.
RESULTS: We found that the reduction of VEGF-A could downregulate downstream molecules and subsequently reduce the intimal hyperplasia and abnormal vascular remodeling by analyzing the STRING PPI database. Venous wall thickening, intimal neointima formation, and apoptosis of vascular endothelial cells in the proliferative outflow vein of the AVF were significantly more obvious, and upregulation of expression of VEGF was observed in dysfunctional AVF in patients. In mouse models, the expression of VEGF, Ephrin receptor B4 (EphB4), matrix metalloproteinase (MMP)2, MMP9, tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinase (TIMP)1, TIMP2, and caspase 3 in the control-shRNA surgical group was significantly higher than in the sham group (P &lt; 0.05), and all of these indicators were significantly lower in lentiviral transfection group and Avastin group than in control-shRNA surgical group (P &lt; 0.05) on the 14th day after AVF operation.
CONCLUSION: VEGF expression is significantly increased in vascular endothelial cells in stenosed or occluded outflow veins of dysfunctional AVF. Local injection of Avastin into the adventitia of the proximal outflow vein in autologous AVF procedure has an excellent potential to prevent the subsequent local stenosis of the proximal outflow vein.

Citation: Huang X, et al. Effect of local anti-vascular endothelial growth factor therapy to prevent the formation of stenosis in outflow vein in arteriovenous fistula. Effect of local anti-vascular endothelial growth factor therapy to prevent the formation of stenosis in outflow vein in arteriovenous fistula. 2021; 9:307-317. doi: 10.2478/jtim-2021-0045

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35136729/
