PMID: 35137630
Title: Tracheal Reconstruction with the Scaffolded Cartilage Sheets in an Orthotopic Animal Model.

Abstract: Tracheal reconstruction remains challenged in clinical. We aimed to fabricate scaffolded cartilage sheets with rigid and elastic supports for tracheal reconstruction. The chondrocyte cell infiltration activity was examined in poly-caprolactone sheet scaffolds with various thicknesses and pore sizes after seeding cells on the top surface of the sheet scaffolds. The expression of cartilage-related genes and accumulation of sulfated glycosaminoglycans were elevated in the cell-scaffold composites upon chondrogenic induction. The thicker cartilage sheets represented stronger mechanical properties than the thinner cartilage sheets. Two different cartilage sheets were orthotopically implanted into a trachea in a rabbit model for 2, 4, and 16 weeks. Cartilage-related sulfated glycosaminoglycans and type II collagen macromolecules were stably expressed in the tracheal implants. However, the invasive migration of fibrous tissue and profibrotic collagen fibers into cartilage implants and the peripheral space surrounding the implants were elevated in a time-dependent manner. At week 16 postimplantation, airway stenosis was noticed under the thicker sheet implants, but not the thinner implants, suggesting that the thinner (1 mm thick) scaffolded cartilage sheet was an optimal candidate for tracheal reconstruction in this study. Finally, cartilage sheets could be a reconstructive therapy candidate applied to reconstruct defects in the trachea and other tissues composed of cartilage. Impact statement Tissue engineering is a promising approach to generate biological substitutes. We aimed to develop cartilage sheets as tracheal prosthesis used in tracheal reconstruction or regional repairing in the animal model. The formation of microvessels and the dynamics of reepithelialization were monitored for 16 weeks in tracheal implants of the engineered cartilage sheets. In this study, it was demonstrated that the tissue-engineered cartilage sheets are potential substitutes applied in the reconstruction of the trachea and other tissues composed of cartilage tissue. The cartilage sheets were thought of as biomaterials for personalized regenerative medicine since the dimensions, thickness, and pore sizes of cartilage sheets were tunable to fit the lesions that need to be reconstructed.

Citation: Tsao CK, et al. Tracheal Reconstruction with the Scaffolded Cartilage Sheets in an Orthotopic Animal Model. Tracheal Reconstruction with the Scaffolded Cartilage Sheets in an Orthotopic Animal Model. 2022; 28:685-699. doi: 10.1089/ten.TEA.2021.0193

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35137630/
