PMID: 35131722
Title: A novel method for quantitative evaluation of motor evoked potential monitoring during cerebrovascular surgeries.

Abstract: Transcranial motor evoked potential (MEP) monitoring, intended to assess cerebral cortical ischemia, may produce false negative results when the stimulation inadvertently activates the deep, subcortical motor pathways. This study examined hand MEP onset latency as a potential means to differentiate superficial versus deep stimulus penetration in surgical patients monitored for cerebral ischemia. Intraoperative MEP data were prospectively collected from 40 patients treated for intracranial aneurysm or carotid stenosis. Onset latencies of hand MEP responses were measured over a range of stimulation intensities from both the contralateral and ipsilateral hand (crossover responses). At the threshold for superficial, cortical stimulation of the contralateral hand, the MEP latency was 26.9 ± 0.4 ms. MEP onset latencies measurements became shorter as stimulation intensities were increased. At the maximum intensity (when crossover response was usually generated), the contralateral hand MEP latency of 22.5 ± 0.3 ms was significantly shorter than at threshold stimulation (p &lt; 0.001). Latency-stimulus intensity plots best fit a 3 parameter hyperbolic decay function (r2 = 0.85 ± 0.02) and revealed a narrow window of acceptable MEP stimuli to obtain superficial cortical activation. Our analysis refutes the utility of the crossover response in reliably gauging depth of activation. Additionally, we found that differentiation between long and short MEP onset latency times may serve as a dependable marker for depth of stimulation. Attention to hand MEP onset latency may reduce inadvertent stimulation of the deep corticospinal tract pathways and avoid false negative MEP recordings during cerebrovascular surgeries.

Citation: Wilkinson MF, et al. A novel method for quantitative evaluation of motor evoked potential monitoring during cerebrovascular surgeries. A novel method for quantitative evaluation of motor evoked potential monitoring during cerebrovascular surgeries. 2022; 98:29-36. doi: 10.1016/j.jocn.2022.01.026

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35131722/
