PMID: 35144568
Title: Radiological and functional assessment in patients with lumbar spinal stenosis.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Although patients with lumbar spinal stenosis (LSS) may have impaired postural control, current diagnosis of LSS depends mainly on clinical manifestation and radiological assessment, while functional assessment of postural balance remains less investigated. This study thus correlated radiological assessment via MR imaging with functional assessment using foam posturography in LSS patients.
METHODS: Forty-seven LSS patients aged 50-85 years were enrolled. All patients received subjective outcome measures first, followed by plain radiography of whole spine and lumbosacral spine, MR imaging, and foam posturography under four conditions. Then, these results were analyzed using stepwise multiple regression analysis. Another 47 age- and sex-matched healthy controls also underwent foam posturography for comparison.
RESULTS: The LSS group revealed significant increases in the sway area of foam posturography than the control group regardless of various conditions. Advanced age, poor walking endurance, and neural compression at the L2/3 level on MR images were significantly correlated with the characteristic parameters of foam posturography (p < 0.05). In contrast, subjectively reported pain and plain radiography did not correlate with posturographic results (p > 0.05).
CONCLUSIONS: Patients with LSS who exhibit less severe symptoms do not ensure normal postural balance. Functional assessment (foam posturography) on postural balance significantly correlated with radiological assessment (MR imaging) in LSS patients. The use of foam posturography may help assess postural control in LSS patients. It takes a short time and costs less, and would be practical to make this a routine examination in LSS patients.

Citation: Huang CC, et al. Radiological and functional assessment in patients with lumbar spinal stenosis. Radiological and functional assessment in patients with lumbar spinal stenosis. 2022; 23:137. doi: 10.1186/s12891-022-05053-x

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35144568/
