PMID: 35141612
Title: Biomechanical evaluation of a novel decompression surgery: Transforaminal full-endoscopic lateral recess decompression (TE-LRD).

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Transforaminal full endoscopic lateral recess decompression (TE-LRD) can decompress lateral recess stenosis transforaminally under the endoscopy procedure. However, the biomechanical effects of the TE-LRD compared to the conventional decompression techniques are not reported. The purpose of this study is to compare the biomechanical effects of TE-LRD with conventional decompression techniques using finite element method.
METHODS: Three finite element models of lumbar functional spinal unit (FSU) of the L4-L5 levels were created: 1) normal disc 2) moderate grade disc degeneration 3) severe grade disc degeneration. For each of these three models, the following decompression techniques were simulated, 1) 50% TE-LRD, 2) 100% TE-LRD, 3) Unilateral laminectomy, 4) Bilateral laminectomy. The lower endplate of the fifth lumbar vertebra was fixed and 10Nm of moment in flexion/extension, left/right bending and axial rotation was applied to the upper endplate of the fourth lumbar vertebra, under a follower load of 400N. The range of motion, intervertebral disc stress, and facet joint stress were compared.
RESULTS: 50% TE-LRD was found to be the most stable decompression technique in all intervertebral disc models. Though the increase in the range of motion of 100% TE-LRD was higher than other decompression techniques in the normal disc model, it was not significantly different from 50% TE-LRD or unilateral laminectomy techniques in the degenerated disc models. The increase in the intervertebral disc stress was lowest for the 50% TE-LRD surgery in all intervertebral disc models. The increase in the facet stresses for 50% TE-LRD was lower than in the conventional decompression techniques for all intervertebral disc models.
CONCLUSIONS: 50% TE-LRD was the decompression surgical technique with the least effect on spinal instability. 100% TE-LRD showed to be effective for cases with degenerative discs. 50% TE-LRD may decrease the risk of postoperative intervertebral disc and facet joint degeneration.

Citation: Matsumoto K, et al. Biomechanical evaluation of a novel decompression surgery: Transforaminal full-endoscopic lateral recess decompression (TE-LRD). Biomechanical evaluation of a novel decompression surgery: Transforaminal full-endoscopic lateral recess decompression (TE-LRD). 2021; 5:100045. doi: 10.1016/j.xnsj.2020.100045

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35141612/
