PMID: 35152733
Title: Laparoscopic Resurrection of an Old Technique: A New Approach for Total Urogenital Separation and Rectal Pull-Through in Patients with Long Common Channel Cloacal Malformation.

Abstract: Background and Aims: Before the significance of urethral length was highlighted in patients with cloacal malformation, total urogenital mobilization using a posterior sagittal approach was recommended for common channel (CC) length &lt;3 cm, those &gt;3 cm it was followed by urogenital separation. However, many urologists are advocating that the urethral length rather than length of the CC should influence the choice of operation. It is also recommended that total urogenital mobilization should be avoided in patients with short urethral length as intraoperative decision to shift to urogenital separation will risk devascularization of the urethra, advocating total urogenital separation (TUS) from the start; the later technique was deemed difficult using open approach. We describe our experience with laparoscopic TUS and rectal pull-through in patients with cloacal malformation. Methods: Six patients were operated for a period of 3 years from December 2017 to July 2021; they underwent laparoscopic TUS and rectal pull-through. Preoperative investigations included cystoscopy, genitogram, and MRI pelvis and abdominal ultrasound. IRB approval has been obtained from research ethical committee at Cairo University. Results: Six female patients born with single perineal opening had colostomy at birth. Age during the second operation ranged from 1 to 4 years. Length of the CC ranged between 2 and 5 cm. Proximal urethral length ranged between 0.5 and 1.5 cm and vaginal depth &gt;3 cm. Average operative time was 4.25 hours. Postoperative period was 1-5 days and uneventful. On the long-term follow-up. No patient developed urethrovaginal fistula and one patient developed vaginal stenosis. All patients had no urinary problems, dry over 4-hour interval, voiding spontaneously, and had normal kidney functions. Conclusions: Laparoscopic urogenital separation, as well as vaginal and rectal pull-through for cloacal malformation, is feasible in cloacal malformation providing anatomical repair.

Citation: Taher HMA, et al. Laparoscopic Resurrection of an Old Technique: A New Approach for Total Urogenital Separation and Rectal Pull-Through in Patients with Long Common Channel Cloacal Malformation. Laparoscopic Resurrection of an Old Technique: A New Approach for Total Urogenital Separation and Rectal Pull-Through in Patients with Long Common Channel Cloacal Malformation. 2022; 36:1177-1182. doi: 10.1089/end.2021.0724

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35152733/
