PMID: 35154358
Title: Distribution Characteristics of ST-Segment Elevation Myocardial Infarction and Non-ST-Segment Elevation Myocardial Infarction Culprit Lesion in Acute Myocardial Infarction Patients Based on Coronary Angiography Diagnosis.

Abstract: This research was aimed at exploring the application value of coronary angiography (CAG) based on a convolutional neural network algorithm in analyzing the distribution characteristics of ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction (STEMI) and non-ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction (NSTEMI) culprit lesions in acute myocardial infarction (AMI) patients. Methods. Patients with AMI treated in hospital from June 2019 to December 2020 were selected as subjects. According to the results of an echocardiogram, the patients were divided into the STEMI group (44 cases) and the NSTEMI group (36 cases). All patients received CAG. All images were denoised and edge detected by a convolutional neural network algorithm. Then, the number of diseased vessels, the location of diseased vessels, and the degree of stenosis of diseased vessels in the two groups were compared and analyzed. Results. The number of patients with complete occlusion (3 cases vs. 12 cases) and collateral circulation (5 cases vs. 20 cases) in the NSTEMI group was significantly higher than that in the STEMI group, and the difference was statistically significant, P &lt; 0.05. There was a statistically significant difference in the number of lesions between the distal LAD (1 case vs. 10 cases) and the distal LCX (4 cases vs. 11 cases), P &lt; 0.05. There was a statistically significant difference in the number of patients with one lesion branch (1 vs. 18) and three lesion branches (25 vs. 12) between the two groups, P &lt; 0.05. The image quality after the convolution neural network algorithm is significantly improved, and the lesion is more prominent. Conclusion. The convolutional neural network algorithm has good performance in DSA image processing of AMI patients. STEMI and NSTEMI as the starting point of AMI disease analysis to determine the treatment plan have high clinical application value. This work provided reference and basis for the application of the convolutional neural network algorithm and CAG in the analysis of the distribution characteristics of STEMI and NSTEMI culprit lesions in AMI patients.

Citation: Cao G, et al. Distribution Characteristics of ST-Segment Elevation Myocardial Infarction and Non-ST-Segment Elevation Myocardial Infarction Culprit Lesion in Acute Myocardial Infarction Patients Based on Coronary Angiography Diagnosis. Distribution Characteristics of ST-Segment Elevation Myocardial Infarction and Non-ST-Segment Elevation Myocardial Infarction Culprit Lesion in Acute Myocardial Infarction Patients Based on Coronary Angiography Diagnosis. 2022; 2022:2420586. doi: 10.1155/2022/2420586

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35154358/
