PMID: 35154799
Title: Improving transcatheter aortic valve interventional predictability via fluid-structure interaction modelling using patient-specific anatomy.

Abstract: Transcatheter aortic valve replacement (TAVR) is now a standard treatment for high-surgical-risk patients with severe aortic valve stenosis. TAVR is being explored for broader indications including degenerated bioprosthetic valves, bicuspid valves and for aortic valve (AV) insufficiency. It is, however, challenging to predict whether the chosen valve size, design or its orientation would produce the most-optimal haemodynamics in the patient. Here, we present a novel patient-specific evaluation framework to realistically predict the patient's AV performance with a high-fidelity fluid-structure interaction analysis that included the patient's left ventricle and ascending aorta (AAo). We retrospectively evaluated the pre- and post-TAVR dynamics of a patient who underwent a 23 mm TAVR and evaluated against the patient's virtually de-calcified AV serving as a hypothetical benchmark. Our model predictions were consistent with clinical data. Stenosed AV produced a turbulent flow during peak-systole, while aortic flow with TAVR and de-calcified AV were both in the laminar-to-turbulent transitional regime with an estimated fivefold reduction in viscous dissipation. For TAVR, dissipation was highest during early systole when valve deformation was the greatest, suggesting that an efficient valve opening may reduce energy loss. Our study demonstrates that such patient-specific modelling frameworks can be used to improve predictability and in the planning of AV interventions.

Citation: Govindarajan V, et al. Improving transcatheter aortic valve interventional predictability via fluid-structure interaction modelling using patient-specific anatomy. Improving transcatheter aortic valve interventional predictability via fluid-structure interaction modelling using patient-specific anatomy. 2022; 9:211694. doi: 10.1098/rsos.211694

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35154799/
