PMID: 35167882
Title: Outcomes of Vesicourethral Anastomotic Stenosis and Bladder Neck Contracture With Direct Visual Internal Urethrotomy With Mitomycin-C After Prostate Cancer Treatment.

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: To examine the use of Direct Visual Internal Urethrotomy with Mitomycin-C (DVIU-MMC) for bladder neck contracture and vesicourethral anastomotic stenosis in men who have undergone treatment for prostate cancer with radical prostatectomy and/or radiation therapy.
METHODS: Retrospective chart review of patients at a tertiary care center who underwent DVIU-MMC for recurrent bladder neck contracture/vesicourethral anastomotic stenosis between 2012 and 2020. Patients with complete urethral obliteration, prior bladder neck reconstruction, or less than 3 months of follow-up were excluded. Patients were sorted into three groups based on prostate cancer treatment history: radical prostatectomy (RP), RP with subsequent external beam radiation therapy (RP-EBRT), and radiation therapy (RT).
RESULTS: Fifty-one patients with a median follow up of 32 months were included. Twenty-nine percent had pre-operative suprapubic tube (SPT), Foley, or required clean intermittent catheterization. Overall success after initial DVIU-MMC was 45%. In all patients with up to four procedures, cumulative overall success was 84%. There was no significant difference in relative success rates between groups. However, the interval to recurrence after initial DVIU-MMC was shortest for RP-EBRT group (P = .018). Three patients required SPT, all were in the RP-EBRT group. There was no statistical difference in recurrence after any number of procedures between patients in radiation (RP-EBRT and RT) and non-radiation (RP) groups.
CONCLUSION: There was no significant difference in success rates between patients who had undergone RP-EBRT, RT, or RP. However, our data suggests that RP-EBRT patients experience poorer outcomes given that their interval to recurrence was more rapid and all patients requiring SPT placement were in this group.

Citation: Hacker EC, et al. Outcomes of Vesicourethral Anastomotic Stenosis and Bladder Neck Contracture With Direct Visual Internal Urethrotomy With Mitomycin-C After Prostate Cancer Treatment. Outcomes of Vesicourethral Anastomotic Stenosis and Bladder Neck Contracture With Direct Visual Internal Urethrotomy With Mitomycin-C After Prostate Cancer Treatment. 2022; 165:331-335. doi: 10.1016/j.urology.2022.01.041

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35167882/
