PMID: 35168928
Title: Radial Forearm Free Flap Phalloplasty in Female-to-Male Transsexuals - A Comparison Between Gottlieb and Levine's and Chang and Hwang's Technique.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Phalloplasty is a crucial part of female-to-male genital gender-affirming surgery, however, up to date, there is still no standardized phalloplasty technique.
AIM: To evaluate the outcome of a single-center series of phalloplasties using the free radial forearm flap variations by Chang and Hwang vs by Gottlieb and Levine on a similar number of transgender patients.
METHODS: Between 2018 and 2020, 45 female to male transgender patients underwent phalloplasty using a neuro-microvascular free radial forearm flap in our department. Twenty patients underwent phalloplasty by the use of the Chang and Hwang design, whereas 25 patients were subjects to a phalloplasty according to Gottlieb and Levine technique. Patients' demographics, procedural characteristics, postoperative complications, and outcome of both groups were retrospectively evaluated and compared with each other.
RESULTS: Patients' demographics were similar in both groups. We did not observe relevant differences concerning postoperative complications comparing the two groups, except for the statistically significant lower rate of partial flap necrosis in the Gottlieb and Levine group. No statistically significant risk factors for an increase in complication rate could be identified. Urethral fistulas were the leading cause of revision.
CLINICAL IMPLICATION: Optimizing a phalloplasty surgical technique and contributing to establish the gold standard in phalloplasty.
STRENGTHS & LIMITATION: This retrospective study presents the first comparison between the free radial forearm flap phalloplasty by Chang and Hwang and by Gottlieb and Levine performed at the same department on a similar number of transgender patients published so far.
CONCLUSION: The Chang and Hwang design is associated with a lower rate of urologic complications (fistulas, stenosis) while the Gottlieb and Levine design has a statistically significant lower incidence of partial flap necrosis. Future prospective trials are needed to establish the gold standard in phalloplasty. Spennato S, Ederer IA., Borisov K et al. Radial Forearm Free Flap Phalloplasty in Female-to-Male Transsexuals - A Comparison Between Gottlieb and Levine's and Chang and Hwang's Technique. J Sex Med 2022;19:661-668.

Citation: Spennato S, et al. Radial Forearm Free Flap Phalloplasty in Female-to-Male Transsexuals - A Comparison Between Gottlieb and Levine's and Chang and Hwang's Technique. Radial Forearm Free Flap Phalloplasty in Female-to-Male Transsexuals - A Comparison Between Gottlieb and Levine's and Chang and Hwang's Technique. 2022; 19:661-668. doi: 10.1016/j.jsxm.2022.01.004

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35168928/
