PMID: 35173884
Title: Predictive power of high-resolution vessel wall magnetic resonance imaging in ischemic stroke.

Abstract: BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVE: Intracranial atherosclerotic disease (ICAD) is a key contributor to ischemic stroke and has a high recurrence rate. This study aimed to investigate the function of high-resolution vessel wall MRI (HR-VW-MRI) and evaluate plaque characteristics in patients with ICAD.
METHODS: A consecutive series of patients with ICAD who underwent HR-VW-MRI were enrolled, and imaging measurements were acquired. Baseline clinical characteristics were identified. Telephone follow-up was conducted every three months. The endpoint events were the first onset or recurrence of ischemic stroke and new clinical vascular events. Patients were divided into groups with or without events according to whether the endpoint event occurred.
RESULTS: A total of 70 patients (mean age = 57.6 years old) were enrolled. The median follow-up duration was 182 days. During the follow-up, 10 patients developed ischemic stroke, experienced endpoint events, and were found with 44 plaques in the artery area. A total of 169 plaques were further found in 70 patients. There were significant differences in EI, HST1, surface features, and WA reference between the two groups (P &lt; 0.05). Logistic analysis showed that grade 2 enhancements, stenosis degree ≥ 50%, HST1, and surface features were independent prognostic factors of the onset of stroke, caused by ICAD.
CONCLUSION: This prospective study demonstrates that HR-VW-MRI can identify atherosclerotic plaques in the cerebral artery and high-risk plaques, which may contribute to the prevention of ICAD and guide clinical treatment.

Citation: Zhai SJ, et al. Predictive power of high-resolution vessel wall magnetic resonance imaging in ischemic stroke. Predictive power of high-resolution vessel wall magnetic resonance imaging in ischemic stroke. 2022; 14:664-671.

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35173884/
