PMID: 35172462
Title: [Efficacy of fenestrated atrial septal defect occulders on pulmonary hypertension dogs].

Abstract: Objective: To explore the short-term efficacy of fenestrated atrial septal defect (ASD) occulders in the treatment of pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH). Methods: Thirty-six healthy dogs were divided into the balloon atrial septostomy (BAS)+fenestrated ASD occulders group (n=12), BAS group (n=12) and non-septostomy group (n=12). PAH was induced by intra-atrial injection of dehydrogenized monocrotaline (1.5 mg/kg) in all dogs. Animals in the BAS+fenestrated ASD occulders group underwent atrial septal puncture and fenestrated ASD occulders implantation. Animals in the BAS group underwent balloon atrial septostomy. The non-septostomy group received no surgical intervention. The hemodynamic indexes and blood N-terminal pro-B-type natriuretic peptide (NT-proBNP) of dogs were measured before modeling, 2 months after modeling, 1, 3, and 6 months after surgery, respectively. Echocardiography was performed to observe the patency of the shunt and atrial septostomy of the dogs in the BAS+fenestrated ASD occulders group and BAS group at 1, 3, and 6 months after surgery. Three dogs were sacrificed in each group at 1, 3, and 6 months after surgery, respectively. Atrial septal tissue and fenestrated ASD occulders were removed to observe the patency and endothelialization of the device. Lung tissues were obtained for hematoxylin-eosin (HE) staining to observe the inflammatory cells infiltration and the thickening and narrowing of the pulmonary arterials. Results: Among 36 dogs, 2 dogs died within 24 hours after modeling, and 34 dogs were assigned to BAS+fenestrated ASD occulders group (n=12), BAS group (n=11), and non-septostomy group (n=11). Compared with BAS group, the average right atrial pressure (mRAP) and NT-proBNP of dogs in the BAS+fenestrated ASD occulders group were significantly reduced at 3 months after surgery (P&lt;0.05), and the cardiac output (CO) was significantly increased at 6 months after surgery, arterial oxygen saturation (SaO<sub>2</sub>) was also significantly reduced (P&lt;0.05). Compared with non-septostomy group, dogs in the BAS+fenestrated ASD occulders group had significantly lower mRAP and NT-proBNP at 1, 3, and 6 months after surgery (P&lt;0.05), and higher CO and lower SaO<sub>2</sub> at 6 months after surgery (P&lt;0.05). Compared with the non-septostomy group, the dogs in the BAS group had significantly lower mRAP and NT-proBNP at 1 month after surgery (P&lt;0.05), and there was no significant difference on mRAP and NT-proBNP at 3 and 6 months after surgery (P&gt;0.05). Echocardiography showed that there was a minimal right-to-left shunt in the atrial septum in the BAS group at 1 month after the surgery, and the ostomy was closed in all the dogs in the BAS group at 3 months after the surgery. There was still a clear right-to-left shunt in the dogs of BAS+fenestrated ASD occulders group. The shunt was well formed and satisfactory endothelialization was observed at 1, 3 and 6 months after surgery. The results of HE staining showed that the pulmonary arterials were significantly thickened, stenosis and collapse occurred in the non-septostomy group. Pulmonary microvascular stenosis and inflammatory cell infiltration in the pulmonary arterials were observed in the non-septostomy group. Pulmonary arterial histological results were comparable between BAS+fenestrated ASD occulders group and non-septostomy group at 6 months after surgery. Conclusions: The fenestrated ASD occulder has the advantage of maintaining the open fistula hole for a longer time compared with simple balloon dilation. The fenestrated ASD occulder can improve cardiac function, and it is safe and feasible to treat PAH in this animal model.

Citation: Yang LF, et al. [Efficacy of fenestrated atrial septal defect occulders on pulmonary hypertension dogs]. [Efficacy of fenestrated atrial septal defect occulders on pulmonary hypertension dogs]. 2022; 50:166-171. doi: 10.3760/cma.j.cn112148-20220102-00002

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35172462/
