PMID: 35179338
Title: Technical performance and reproducibility following rotational atherectomy of femoropopliteal artery occlusive lesions: analysis of the multicenter MORPHEAS Registry.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: The purpose of this study was to define patient and anatomical factors associated with technical results specific to rotational atherectomy. Controversy exists surrounding appropriate utilization of atherectomy to treat femoral-popliteal atherosclerosis. Importantly, the existence of different atherectomy devices and lack of technical reports highlighting variables that impact outcomes obscures the ability to assess perioperative performance.
METHODS: The nonindustry sponsored, Multicentric National Registry on the use of rotational atherectomy in femoral-popliteal occlusive atherosclerotic disease (MORPHEAS) database was queried. The MORPHEAS investigators included experienced providers at four centers who previously had not utilized rotational atherectomy. The primary endpoint was flow-limiting dissection and/or >50% recoil resulting in stent-placement while a secondary endpoint included peripheral thromboembolism incidence.
RESULTS: One hundred thirteen patients were enrolled. Only femoropopliteal occlusions were included in the analysis and anatomic distribution and calcification severity were depicted separately. The most common adjunctive therapy was drug-coated balloon angioplasty (84%; N.=96). Flow-limiting dissection was identified in 16% (N.=18) and thromboembolism occurred in 4% (N.=4). Diabetes increased risk of thromboembolism (P=0.03) while lesion length ≥8.0 cm (P=0.07) and SFA-popliteal adductor canal location (P=0.01) were associated with flow-limiting dissection. In multivariable analysis, SFA-popliteal adductor canal occlusion had a 4.7-fold risk of perioperative complications (OR=4.7, 95%CI: 1.1-21.0; P=0.04).
CONCLUSIONS: Rotational atherectomy was characterized by reproducible performance among four centers; however, diabetic patients, as well as those with long-segment, heavily calcified SFA-popliteal adductor canal occlusion present greatest risk of complications.

Citation: Donas KP, et al. Technical performance and reproducibility following rotational atherectomy of femoropopliteal artery occlusive lesions: analysis of the multicenter MORPHEAS Registry. Technical performance and reproducibility following rotational atherectomy of femoropopliteal artery occlusive lesions: analysis of the multicenter MORPHEAS Registry. 2022; 63:13-19. doi: 10.23736/S0021-9509.21.12159-7

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35179338/
