PMID: 35183659
Title: Non-contrast hemodynamic imaging of Moyamoya disease with MR fingerprinting ASL: A feasibility study.

Abstract: PURPOSE: MR Fingerprinting (MRF) Arterial Spin Labeling (ASL) is a non-contrast technique to estimate multiple brain hemodynamic and structural parameters in a single scan. The purpose of this study is to examine the feasibility and initial utility of MRF-ASL in Moyamoya disease.
METHODS: MRF-ASL, conventional single-delay ASL, Time-of-flight (TOF) MR angiography, and contrast-based dynamic-susceptibility-contrast (DSC) MRI were prospectively collected from a group of Moyamoya patients in North America (N = 21, 4 men and 17 women). Sixteen healthy subjects (7 men and 9 women) also underwent an MRF-ASL scan. Cerebral blood flow (CBF), bolus arrival time (BAT), and tissue T1 were compared between Moyamoya patients and healthy controls. Perfusion parameters from MRF-ASL were compared to those from other MRI sequences. Multi-linear regression was used for comparisons of parameter values between Moyamoya and control groups. Linear mixed-effects models was used when comparing MRF-ASL to PCASL and DSC parameters. Spearman's Rank Correlation Coefficient was calculated when comparing MRF-ASL to and MRA grades. A P value of 0.05 or less was considered significant.
RESULTS: BAT in stenotic internal carotid artery (ICA) territories was prolonged (P < 0.001) in Moyamoya patients, when compared with healthy controls. CBF in stenotic ICA territories of Moyamoya patients was not different from CBF in healthy controls; but in the PCA territories, CBF in Moyamoya patients was higher (P < 0.01) than controls. Quantitative T1 values in the stenotic ICA territories was longer (P < 0.05) than that in controls. Hemodynamic parameters estimated from MRF-ASL were significantly correlated with single-delay ASL and DSC. Longer BAT was associated with more severe intracranial artery stenosis in ICA.
CONCLUSIONS: MRF-ASL is a promising technique to assess perfusion and structural abnormalities in Moyamoya patients.

Citation: Su P, et al. Non-contrast hemodynamic imaging of Moyamoya disease with MR fingerprinting ASL: A feasibility study. Non-contrast hemodynamic imaging of Moyamoya disease with MR fingerprinting ASL: A feasibility study. 2022; 88:116-122. doi: 10.1016/j.mri.2022.02.006

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35183659/
