PMID: 35187653
Title: Angioplasty versus stenting for subclavian artery stenosis.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: The subclavian arteries are two major arteries of the upper chest, below the collar bone, which come from the arch of the aorta. Endovascular treatment for stenosis of the subclavian arteries includes angioplasty alone, and with stenting. There is insufficient evidence to guide the use of stents following angioplasty for subclavian artery stenosis. This is the second update of a review first published in 2011.
OBJECTIVES: The aim of this review was to determine whether stenting was more effective than angioplasty alone for stenosis of the subclavian artery.
SEARCH METHODS: For this update, the Cochrane Vascular Information Specialist searched the Cochrane Vascular Specialised Register, CENTRAL, MEDLINE, Embase, CINAHL, and LILACS databases, and the World Health Organization International Clinical Trials Registry Platform and ClinicalTrials.gov trials registers to 2 February 2021.
SELECTION CRITERIA: We searched for randomised controlled trials of endovascular treatment of subclavian artery lesions that compared angioplasty alone and stent implantation.
DATA COLLECTION AND ANALYSIS: Two review authors independently evaluated studies to assess eligibility. Discrepancies were resolved by discussion. If there was no agreement, we asked a third review author to assess the study for inclusion. We planned to undertake data collection and analysis in accordance with recommendations described in the Cochrane Handbook for Systematic Reviews of Interventions, and assess the certainty of the evidence using a GRADE approach.
MAIN RESULTS: To date, we have not identified any completed or ongoing randomised controlled trials that compare percutaneous transluminal angioplasty and stenting for subclavian artery stenosis.
AUTHORS' CONCLUSIONS: There is currently insufficient evidence to determine whether stenting is more effective than angioplasty alone for stenosis of the subclavian artery.

Citation: Iared W, et al. Angioplasty versus stenting for subclavian artery stenosis. Angioplasty versus stenting for subclavian artery stenosis. 2022; 2:CD008461. doi: 10.1002/14651858.CD008461.pub4

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35187653/
