PMID: 35188902
Title: Multiple Continuous Y-to-V-Plasties for Excision and Reconstruction of Constriction Band Syndrome: Case Series and Description of Surgical Technique.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Many patients with constriction band syndrome will seek treatment to improve limb function and cosmesis. Although several techniques for excision are reported, cosmetic and functional deficits can persist, including hourglass deformity, lymphedema, and inadequate band excision with resultant neurovascular compromise, which may lead to revision surgery, including amputation. The authors present a novel technique that uses multiple continuous opposing Y-to-V-plasties in a single or staged manner to correct extremity constriction bands.
METHODS: Seven patients with 10 involved extremities were included in this retrospective case series. Patient demographics, associated abnormalities, and operative indications were collected from medical records. The primary outcome measures were primary wound healing and release of the constriction band. Secondary outcomes measures were perioperative complications and the need for revision surgery.
RESULTS: All patients achieved primary closure with excellent healing in one or two stages. No infections or scar complications occurred, and no revision surgery of the band was required. One patient had mild indentation of scar tissue after their second stage, which improved with scar massage. One patient who had preoperative sciatic compression neuropathy and an insensate foot secondary to band constriction developed chronic calcaneal osteomyelitis requiring a subsequent Syme amputation. Postoperative lymphedema occurred in two patients, which resolved with the use of compression bandages over several weeks.
CONCLUSION: Use of multiple continuous opposing Y-to-V-plasties is a safe and effective technique for adequate constriction band excision without residual hourglass deformity and good functional outcomes for patients with partial or circumferential constriction bands.
CLINICAL QUESTION/LEVEL OF EVIDENCE: Therapeutic, IV.

Citation: Chan AHW, et al. Multiple Continuous Y-to-V-Plasties for Excision and Reconstruction of Constriction Band Syndrome: Case Series and Description of Surgical Technique. Multiple Continuous Y-to-V-Plasties for Excision and Reconstruction of Constriction Band Syndrome: Case Series and Description of Surgical Technique. 2022; 149:774e-778e. doi: 10.1097/PRS.0000000000008954

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35188902/
