PMID: 35199245
Title: Superior mesenteric vein to the right testicular vein shunt operation for jejunal varices bleeding associated with extrahepatic portal vein obstruction after pancreaticoduodenectomy: a case report.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Causes of extrahepatic portal vein obstruction include abdominal surgeries such as pancreaticoduodenectomy. We improved jejunal variceal bleeding due to extrahepatic portal vein occlusion after pancreaticoduodenectomy, by shunting of the testicular vein.
CASE PRESENTATION: A 72-year-old man was diagnosed with extrahepatic bile duct cancer and underwent subtotal stomach-preserving pancreaticoduodenectomy 5 years ago. No postoperative complications occurred, adjuvant chemotherapy using gemcitabine hydrochloride was performed, and the patient remained recurrence-free. One year and 6 months post-operation, extrahepatic portal vein stenosis appeared, but no recurrence was noted. However, 4 years and 6 months later, recurrent gastrointestinal bleeding occurred, and the patient was diagnosed with an extrahepatic portal vein obstruction. Double-balloon enteroscopy showed capillary dilatation and varicose veins in the hepaticojejunostomy region, and venous bleeding from collateral blood vessels was diagnosed. A superior mesenteric vein to the right testicular vein shunt operation was performed, following which the gastrointestinal bleeding disappeared, and the anemia improved. Although transient hepatic encephalopathy occurred, conservative treatment relieved it. Double-balloon enteroscopy confirmed the disappearance of abnormal blood vessels.
CONCLUSIONS: A portosystemic shunt operation using the right testicular vein effectively relieved refractory variceal bleeding around the hepaticojejunostomy site in the jejunum due to an extrahepatic portal vein obstruction after pancreaticoduodenectomy.

Citation: Shiozaki S, et al. Superior mesenteric vein to the right testicular vein shunt operation for jejunal varices bleeding associated with extrahepatic portal vein obstruction after pancreaticoduodenectomy: a case report. Superior mesenteric vein to the right testicular vein shunt operation for jejunal varices bleeding associated with extrahepatic portal vein obstruction after pancreaticoduodenectomy: a case report. 2022; 8:33. doi: 10.1186/s40792-022-01390-0

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35199245/
