PMID: 35192504
Title: Combined Coronary Orbital Atherectomy and Intravascular Lithotripsy for the Treatment of Severely Calcified Coronary Stenoses: The First Case Series.

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: Severely calcified coronary stenoses remain a significant challenge during contemporary percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI), often requiring advanced therapies to circumvent suboptimal lesion preparation and major adverse cardiac events (MACEs). Recent reports suggest combined coronary atherectomy and intravascular lithotripsy (IVL) may achieve superior preparation of severely calcified coronary stenoses during PCI. We sought to evaluate the safety and utility of combined orbital atherectomy (OA) and IVL for the modification of coronary artery calcification (CAC) prior to drug-eluting stent (DES) implantation in PCI.
METHODS: We performed a retrospective review of all patients who underwent coronary OA and IVL within a single PCI procedure at our institution. The primary outcome was procedural success, defined as successful DES implantation with a residual percent diameter stenosis of <30% and Thrombolysis in Myocardial Infarction (TIMI) 3 flow following PCI without occurrence of in-hospital MACE (cardiac death, myocardial infarction, or target-vessel revascularization). MACE was additionally assessed at 30 days post intervention.
RESULTS: Eight patients underwent combined coronary OA and IVL within a single PCI procedure. The mean percent diameter stenosis prior to intervention was 80.5 ± 8.3%, with a mean calcific arc of 338 ± 42°. Procedural success was achieved in 7 of 8 cases (87.5%). Both in-hospital and 30-day MACE rates were 0%.
CONCLUSION: We report the safe and effective use of combined coronary OA and IVL for the preparation of severely calcified coronary stenoses during PCI. Through their distinct yet complementary mechanisms of action, the combined use of these therapies may achieve superior preparation of severely calcified coronary stenoses during PCI.

Citation: Yarusi BB, et al. Combined Coronary Orbital Atherectomy and Intravascular Lithotripsy for the Treatment of Severely Calcified Coronary Stenoses: The First Case Series. Combined Coronary Orbital Atherectomy and Intravascular Lithotripsy for the Treatment of Severely Calcified Coronary Stenoses: The First Case Series. 2022; 34:E210-E217. doi: 10.25270/jic/21.00106

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35192504/
