PMID: 35208606
Title: Trend of Galectin-3 Levels in Patients with Non-ST-Elevation and ST-Elevation Myocardial Infarction.

Abstract: Background and Objectives: Given the fact that galectin-3 has a predictive significance on the development of myocardial dysfunction after acute myocardial infarction, the aim of our study was to examine potential factors that could be important for the dynamics of the concentration of this biomarker in the early postinfarction period. Materials and Methods: This study included 89 patients with a diagnosis of stable angina pectoris (SAP) or the first non-ST elevation (NSTEMI) or ST-elevation (STEMI) myocardial infarction, who underwent percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI). The study group included 23 patients with the first NSTEMI and 42 patients with STEMI, while the control group consisted of 24 patients with SAP hospitalized for elective PCI without a previous MI. All patients had preserved left ventricular ejection fraction. Galectin-3 levels were determined on days 1, 5, and 30 after PCI. The significance of various independent variables as predictors of galectin-3 concentration was analyzed after a series of univariate linear regression modeling in a multivariate linear regression model. Results: The average patients' age was 63.99 ± 9.13 years. Statistically significantly higher values of C-reactive protein were established in STEMI compared to SAP (p &lt; 0.01) or NSTEMI (p &lt; 0.001), whereas WBC count was significantly lower in SAP than in STEMI (p &lt; 0.001) and NSTEMI (p &lt; 0.01) group. Although there were no statistically significant differences in measured galectin-3 concentrations between the examined groups on days 1, 5, and 30 after PCI, HTA, triglyceride level, LA size, treatment with trimetazidine and long-acting nitrates, as well as percentage of LM stenosis and E/A ratio were identified as independent predictors of galectin-3 concentration. Conclusions: In the post-MI period, very early values of galectin-3 correlate mostly with atherosclerosis factors, while on day 30 this biomarker correlates with diastolic dysfunction and "announces" left ventricular remodeling.

Citation: Mitić B, et al. Trend of Galectin-3 Levels in Patients with Non-ST-Elevation and ST-Elevation Myocardial Infarction. Trend of Galectin-3 Levels in Patients with Non-ST-Elevation and ST-Elevation Myocardial Infarction. 2022; 58:(unknown pages). doi: 10.3390/medicina58020286

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35208606/
