PMID: 35218663
Title: Novel brain computed tomography perfusion for cerebral malperfusion secondary to acute type A aortic dissection.

Abstract: OBJECTIVES: The management of acute type A aortic dissection with malperfusion syndrome remains challenging. To evaluate preoperative condition, symptoms might be subjective and objective evaluation of cerebral artery has not yet been established. For quantitative evaluation, this study focused on brain computed tomography perfusion (CTP), which has been recommended by several guidelines of acute ischaemic stroke.
METHODS: In the last 2 years, 147 patients hospitalized due to acute type A aortic dissection were retrospectively reviewed. Among the 23 (16%) patients with cerebral malperfusion, 14 who underwent brain CTP (6 preoperative and 8 postoperative) were enrolled. CTP parameters, including regional blood flow and time to maximum, were automatically computed using RApid processing of Perfusion and Diffusion software. The median duration from the onset to hospital arrival was 129 (31-659) min.
RESULTS: Among the 6 patients who underwent preoperative CTP, 4 with salvageable ischaemic lesion (penumbra: 8-735 ml) without massive irreversible ischaemic lesion (ischaemic core: 0-31 ml) achieved acceptable neurological outcomes after emergency aortic replacement regardless of preoperative neurological severity. In contrast, 2 patients with an ischaemic core of >50 ml (73, 51 ml) fell into a vegetative state or neurological death due to intracranial haemorrhage. CTP parameters guided postoperative blood pressure augmentation without additional supra-aortic vessel intervention in the 8 patients who underwent postoperative CTP, among whom 6 achieved normal neurological function regardless of common carotid true lumen stenosis severity.
CONCLUSIONS: CTP was able to detect irreversible ischaemic core, guide critical decisions in preoperative patients and aid in determining the blood pressure augmentation for postoperative management focusing on residual brain ischaemia.

Citation: Inoue Y, et al. Novel brain computed tomography perfusion for cerebral malperfusion secondary to acute type A aortic dissection. Novel brain computed tomography perfusion for cerebral malperfusion secondary to acute type A aortic dissection. 2022; 35:(unknown pages). doi: 10.1093/icvts/ivac046

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35218663/
