PMID: 35217815
Title: Trimetazidine enhances myocardial angiogenesis in pressure overload-induced cardiac hypertrophy mice through directly activating Akt and promoting the binding of HSF1 to VEGF-A promoter.

Abstract: Latest clinical research shows that trimetazidine therapy during the perioperative period relieves endothelial dysfunction in patients with unstable angina induced by percutaneous coronary intervention. In this study we investigated the effects of TMZ on myocardial angiogenesis in pressure overload-induced cardiac hypertrophy mice. Cardiac hypertrophy was induced in mice by transverse aortic constriction (TAC) surgery. TAC mice were administered trimetazidine (2.8 mg/100 µL, i.g.) for 28 consecutive days. We showed that trimetazidine administration significantly increased blood vessel density in the left ventricular myocardium and abrogated cardiac dysfunction in TAC mice. Co-administration of a specific HSF1 inhibitor KRIBB11 (1.25 mg/100 µL, i.h.) abrogated the angiogenesis-promoting effects of trimetazidine in TAC mice. Using luciferase reporter and electrophoretic mobility shift assays we demonstrated that the transcription factor HSF1 bound to the promoter region of VEGF-A, and the transcriptional activity of HSF1 was enhanced upon trimetazidine treatment. In molecular docking analysis we found that trimetazidine directly bound to Akt via a hydrogen bond with Asp292 and a pi-pi bond with Trp80. In norepinephrine-treated HUVECs, we showed that trimetazidine significantly increased the phosphorylation of Akt and the synergistic nuclear translocation of Akt and HSF1, as well as the binding of Akt and HSF1 in the nucleus. These results suggest that trimetazidine enhances myocardial angiogenesis through a direct interaction with Akt and promotion of nuclear translocation of HSF1, and that trimetazidine may be used for the treatment of myocardial angiogenic disorders in hypertensive patients.

Citation: Shu HY, et al. Trimetazidine enhances myocardial angiogenesis in pressure overload-induced cardiac hypertrophy mice through directly activating Akt and promoting the binding of HSF1 to VEGF-A promoter. Trimetazidine enhances myocardial angiogenesis in pressure overload-induced cardiac hypertrophy mice through directly activating Akt and promoting the binding of HSF1 to VEGF-A promoter. 2022; 43:2550-2561. doi: 10.1038/s41401-022-00877-8

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35217815/
