PMID: 35214534
Title: Quantitative Gait Analysis of Patients with Severe Symptomatic Spinal Stenosis Utilizing the Gait Profile Score: An Observational Clinical Study.

Abstract: Lumbar spine stenosis (LSS) typically manifests with neurogenic claudication, altering patients' gait. The use of optoelectronic systems has allowed clinicians to perform 3D quantitative gait analysis to quantify and understand these alterations. Although several authors have presented analysis of spatiotemporal gait parameters, data concerning kinematic parameters is lacking. Fifteen patients with LSS were matched with 15 healthy controls. Quantitative gait analysis utilizing optoelectronic techniques was performed for each pair of subjects in a specialized laboratory. Statistical comparison of patients and controls was performed to determine differences in spatiotemporal parameters and the Gait Profile Score (GPS). Statistically significant differences were found between patient and control groups for all spatiotemporal parameters. Patients had significantly different overall GPS (p = 0.004) and had limited internal/external pelvic rotation (p &lt; 0.001) and cranial/caudal movement (p = 0.034), limited hip extension (p = 0.012) and abduction/adduction (p = 0.012) and limited ankle plantar flexion (p &lt; 0.001). In conclusion, patients with LSS have significantly altered gait patterns in three regions (pelvis, hip and ankle) compared to healthy controls. Analysis of kinematic graphs has given insight into gait pathophysiology of patients with LSS and the use of GPS will allow us to quantify surgical results in the future.

Citation: Lodin J, et al. Quantitative Gait Analysis of Patients with Severe Symptomatic Spinal Stenosis Utilizing the Gait Profile Score: An Observational Clinical Study. Quantitative Gait Analysis of Patients with Severe Symptomatic Spinal Stenosis Utilizing the Gait Profile Score: An Observational Clinical Study. 2022; 22:(unknown pages). doi: 10.3390/s22041633

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35214534/
