PMID: 35218418
Title: Dialysis access-associated steal syndrome with percutaneous endovascular arteriovenous fistula creation.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Dialysis access-associated steal syndrome (DASS) is an infrequent complication after hemodialysis access creation. Clinical symptoms depend on the degree of steal. Percutaneous arteriovenous fistula creation offers a minimally invasive alternative to surgical creation, though complications have been reported. The following presents the first described case of DASS after percutaneous endovascular arteriovenous fistula creation, and discusses risk factors and management.
CASE PRESENTATION: Our case is that of a 27-year-old male with end stage renal disease due to congenital renal dysplasia, who underwent left percutaneous arteriovenous fistula creation for initiation of dialysis. Two months after the procedure the patient complained of coldness, pain, tingling, and numbness in the left arm during dialysis, concerning for steal syndrome. The patient subsequently underwent brachial artery angiogram, which showed minimal antegrade flow through the ulnar and interosseous arteries towards the hand, and a focal, severe stenosis in the distal ulnar artery. Angioplasty of the stenosis was performed, though steal symptoms continued.
CONCLUSIONS: DASS, though rare, can be seen with percutaneous arteriovenous fistula creation. Identification of the risk factors prior to creation can help avoid this complication. Management is largely guided by clinical presentation. As long as there is adequate collateral supply to the extremity, single vessel occlusion is not a contraindication to percutaneous arteriovenous fistula creation with the use of WavelinQ technology. Careful patient selection with pre-creation angiogram may reduce the risk of symptomatic steal.

Citation: Varma R, et al. Dialysis access-associated steal syndrome with percutaneous endovascular arteriovenous fistula creation. Dialysis access-associated steal syndrome with percutaneous endovascular arteriovenous fistula creation. 2022; 5:13. doi: 10.1186/s42155-022-00289-z

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35218418/
