PMID: 35226154
Title: Effect of long-term intensive cholesterol control on the plaque progression in elderly based on CTA cohort study.

Abstract: OBJECTIVES: To investigate the long-term effects of intensive LDL cholesterol-lowering treatments on lumen stenosis severity, plaque calcification, spotty calcifications, percent calcified plaque volume (PCPV), and Agatston coronary artery calcium score (CACS) based on coronary computed tomography angiography (CCTA) in elderly patients.
METHODS: A total of 240 patients over 60 years old (comprising 754 lesions) who underwent serial CCTA were retrospectively enrolled in this 5-year cohort study. Patients were divided into three groups: an intensive lipid-lowering group, a lipid-lowering group, and a control group. The stenosis severity, plaque volume (PV), plaque composition, PCPV, and high-risk plaque (HRP) presence were quantitatively analyzed. The CACS was calculated at baseline and follow-up.
RESULTS: All patients were male with an average age of 66.8 ± 5.8 years old. Over time, increases in the percentages of obstructive coronary lesions (p < 0.001) were observed. Compared with those at baseline, the percentage of obstructive lesions remained unchanged (p = 0.077), and the percentage of spotty calcifications significantly decreased (p < 0.05) at the follow-up CCTA scan in the intensive lipid-lowering group. Patients in the intensive lipid-lowering group demonstrated a higher progression in calcified PV, CACS, and PCPV (all p < 0.05), and a significantly greater attenuation in fibrous-fatty and lipid-rich PV (all p < 0.05) than patients in other groups.
CONCLUSIONS: The PV and contents increased gradually with time in all groups. Intensive LDL-C lowering was associated with slower progression of stenosis severity and reduction of high-risk plaque features, with increased plaque calcification and higher progression in PCPV. Comprehensive serial plaque evaluations by CCTAs may contribute to further refinement of risk stratification and reasonable lipid-lowering treatment in elderly patients.
KEY POINTS: • Intensive LDL-C lowering increased coronary calcification and percent calcified plaque volume progression. • Comprehensive serial plaque evaluations by serial CCTAs may help to refine risk stratification.

Citation: Sun T, et al. Effect of long-term intensive cholesterol control on the plaque progression in elderly based on CTA cohort study. Effect of long-term intensive cholesterol control on the plaque progression in elderly based on CTA cohort study. 2022; 32:4374-4383. doi: 10.1007/s00330-022-08594-w

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35226154/
