PMID: 35224248
Title: Surgery Can Improve Locomotive Syndrome Due to Lumbar Spinal Canal Stenosis and Loco-Check Can Predict Best Timing of Surgery to Avoid Progress of Locomotive Syndrome.

Abstract: INTRODUCTION: The loco-check is a simple tool for evaluating locomotive syndrome (LS), and a previous report suggested that it can be used to identify patients with stage 2 LS. The purpose of this study was to investigate the improvement in LS stage after surgery based on the loco-check in elderly patients with lumbar spinal stenosis (LSS) and to clarify the characteristics associated with improvement to non-stage 2 LS.
METHODS: We reviewed 40 elderly patients with LSS who underwent surgery at our institution. We compared the pre- and postoperative Japanese Orthopaedic Association score, loco-check, Oswestry Disability Index, EuroQoL-5 dimension utility values, and the EuroQoL-visual analog scale. We divided patients according to the presence or absence of stage 2 LS after surgery and compared their preoperative clinical findings and assessment measures.
RESULTS: Ninety percent of all patients had been preoperatively diagnosed with stage 2 LS according to the loco-check. After surgery, patients showed a decreased number of affirmative answers on the loco-check, according to which only 65% were postoperatively diagnosed with stage 2 LS. The receiver operating characteristic curve analysis identified less than four affirmative answers on the loco-check before LSS as predictive of improvement to non-stage 2 LS.
CONCLUSIONS: Surgical treatment for elderly patients with LSS could improve LS. In patients with less than four affirmative answers on the loco-check preoperatively, improvement to non-stage 2 LS status may be possible.

Citation: Shigematsu H, et al. Surgery Can Improve Locomotive Syndrome Due to Lumbar Spinal Canal Stenosis and Loco-Check Can Predict Best Timing of Surgery to Avoid Progress of Locomotive Syndrome. Surgery Can Improve Locomotive Syndrome Due to Lumbar Spinal Canal Stenosis and Loco-Check Can Predict Best Timing of Surgery to Avoid Progress of Locomotive Syndrome. 2022; 6:58-62. doi: 10.22603/ssrr.2021-0046

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35224248/
