PMID: 35226163
Title: Laparoscopic definitive surgery for congenital biliary dilatation with aggressive hilar bile ductoplasty and complete resection of the intrapancreatic bile duct in pediatric patients is safe and effective, comparable to open surgery.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: After surgery for congenital biliary dilatation (CBD), hilar and hepatic bile duct stenosis and intrapancreatic bile duct remnants can cause many postoperative complications. We investigated the efficacy of laparoscopic surgery with aggressive bile ductoplasty and complete excision of the intrapancreatic bile duct in CBD patients compared to open surgery.
METHODS: Pediatric patients who underwent surgery for CBD at our institution between 2006 and 2020 were divided into two groups: laparoscopic surgery (Lap group) and open surgery (Op group). Surgical outcomes were compared between the two groups.
RESULTS: We enrolled 160 patients (85 in the Lap group and 75 in the Op group). Hilar bile ductoplasty was performed in 52 (61%) patients from the Lap group and 40 (53%) patients from the Op group. The operative time was significantly longer, the amount of blood loss was significantly lower, and the length of hospital stay was significantly shorter in the Lap group than in the Op group. Postoperative early and late complications occurred at a similarly low rate in both groups. When the surgical outcomes were compared between the group who underwent laparoscopic bile ductoplasty and the group that did not, postoperative early and late complications occurred similarly in both groups.
CONCLUSIONS: Laparoscopic surgery for CBD with aggressive hilar bile ductoplasty and complete excision of the intrapancreatic bile duct is safe and effective, comparable to open surgery. However, it is necessary to verify whether long-term occurrence of hepatolithiasis similar to open definitive surgery can be obtained in the future.

Citation: Tainaka T, et al. Laparoscopic definitive surgery for congenital biliary dilatation with aggressive hilar bile ductoplasty and complete resection of the intrapancreatic bile duct in pediatric patients is safe and effective, comparable to open surgery. Laparoscopic definitive surgery for congenital biliary dilatation with aggressive hilar bile ductoplasty and complete resection of the intrapancreatic bile duct in pediatric patients is safe and effective, comparable to open surgery. 2022; 36:7352-7359. doi: 10.1007/s00464-022-09132-x

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35226163/
