PMID: 35225716
Title: Use of a High-Fidelity Training Simulator for Minimally Invasive Lumbar Decompression Increases Working Knowledge and Technical Skills Among Orthopedic and Neurosurgical Trainees.

Abstract: STUDY DESIGN: Prospective comparative study.
OBJECTIVE: To quantify the educational benefit to surgical trainees of using a high-fidelity simulator to perform minimally invasive (MIS) unilateral laminotomy for bilateral decompression (ULBD) for lumbar stenosis.
METHODS: Twelve orthopedic and neurologic surgery residents performed three MIS ULBD procedures over 2 weeks on a simulator guided by established AO Spine metrics. Video recording of each surgery was rated by three blinded, independent experts using a global rating scale. The learning curve was evaluated with attention to technical skills, skipped steps, occurrence of errors, and timing. A knowledge gap analysis evaluating participants' current vs desired ability was performed after each trial.
RESULTS: From trial 1 to 3, there was a decrease in average procedural time by 31.7 minutes. The cumulative number of skipped steps and surgical errors decreased from 25 to 6 and 24 to 6, respectively. Overall surgical proficiency improved as indicated by video rating of efficiency and smoothness of surgical maneuvers, most notably with knowledge and handling of instruments. The greatest changes were noted in junior rather than senior residents. Average knowledge gap analysis significantly decreased by 30% from the first to last trial (P = .001), signifying trainees performed closer to their desired technical goal.
CONCLUSION: Procedural metrics for minimally invasive ULBD in combination with a realistic surgical simulator can be used to improve the skills and confidence of trainees. Surgical simulation may offer an important educational complement to traditional methods of skill acquisition and should be explored further with other MIS techniques.

Citation: Melcher C, et al. Use of a High-Fidelity Training Simulator for Minimally Invasive Lumbar Decompression Increases Working Knowledge and Technical Skills Among Orthopedic and Neurosurgical Trainees. Use of a High-Fidelity Training Simulator for Minimally Invasive Lumbar Decompression Increases Working Knowledge and Technical Skills Among Orthopedic and Neurosurgical Trainees. 2023; 13:2182-2192. doi: 10.1177/21925682221076044

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35225716/
