PMID: 35229558
Title: Bibliometric analysis of the inflammatory mechanism in aortic disease.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: In view of the key role of inflammation in the pathogenesis of aortic disease, we visually analyzed the research hotspots of inflammatory mechanism in aortic disease in this work through the method of bibliometrics from the Web of Science (WOS) Core database over the past three decades.
METHODS: A visual bibliometric network of research articles on inflammatory mechanisms in aortic disease was obtained from VOSviewer and Citespace based on the WOS Core Collection.
RESULTS: A total of 1278 documents from January 1990 to February 2021 were selected for analysis. The United States and China had the highest percentage of articles, comprising 34.01% and 24.92% of articles worldwide, respectively. Harvard University has published the most articles in this field, followed by the University of Michigan and Huazhong University of Science and Technology. The top 3 research hotspots were atherosclerosis, oxidative stress, and macrophages. The journal with the most articles in this area was Arteriosclerosis Thrombosis and Vascular Biology, followed by Atherosclerosis and PLOS One. The research trend on inflammatory mechanisms in the aortic system has 5 distinct directions: (1) atherosclerosis, NF-κB, expression, smooth muscle cell, and oxidative stress; (2) coronary artery disease, C-reactive protein, risk factors, endothelial dysfunction, and aortic stenosis; (3) abdominal aortic aneurysm, matrix metalloproteinases, macrophage, and pathogenesis; (4) cholesterol, metabolism, low-density lipoprotein, gene expression, and a therosclerotic lesions; and (5) calcific aortic valve disease, interstitial cells, calcification, and stenosis.
CONCLUSIONS: Inflammatory mechanism research has shown a tendency to rise gradually in the aortic field. Numerous studies have explored the role of inflammatory responses in aortic disease, which may increase the risk of endothelial dysfunction (aortic fibrosis and stiffness) and induce plaque formation. Among them, NFκB activation, nitric-oxide synthase expression, and oxidative stress are particularly essential.

Citation: Wang L, et al. Bibliometric analysis of the inflammatory mechanism in aortic disease. Bibliometric analysis of the inflammatory mechanism in aortic disease. 2022; 23:67. doi: 10.31083/j.rcm2302067

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35229558/
