PMID: 35224246
Title: Risk Factors for Incidence of Postoperative Spinal Epidural Hematoma Following Multilevel Microendoscopic Laminectomy.

Abstract: INTRODUCTION: Due to the narrow portal of entry, microendoscopic laminectomy (MEL) is associated with a risk of postoperative spinal epidural hematoma (POSEH). This risk might be higher when performing multiple-level (m-) MEL. The purpose of this study is to clarify the incidence rate of POSEH following single-level (s-) and m-MEL by each interlaminar level and identify the risk factors for POSEH following m-MEL.
METHODS: A total of 379 patients underwent MEL of the lumbar spine (s-MEL, n=141; m-MEL, n=238). We determined the incidence of POSEH following s-MEL and m-MEL by each interlaminar level. For m-MEL, we clarified the correlation between POSEH and possible risk factors, such as operative findings, the sequence of operated interlaminar levels, and the preoperative cross-sectional dural area (CSA) on magnetic resonance imaging.
RESULTS: The incidence rate at L2/3 was significantly higher than that at L3/4 and L4/5. Patients who underwent L2/3 decompression at the end of the procedure showed a higher incidence of POSEH at the L2/3 level. Preoperative spinal stenosis was associated with POSEH at the L2/3 level, and CSA of 56 mm2 was a predictive factor for POSEH. Logistic regression analysis revealed that both were significant risk factors.
CONCLUSIONS: In patients undergoing m-MEL, the incidence of POSEH is highest at the L2/3 level, and treatment of the L2/3 level at the end of the procedure and the presence of spinal stenosis are risk factors for POSEH.

Citation: Bekki H, et al. Risk Factors for Incidence of Postoperative Spinal Epidural Hematoma Following Multilevel Microendoscopic Laminectomy. Risk Factors for Incidence of Postoperative Spinal Epidural Hematoma Following Multilevel Microendoscopic Laminectomy. 2022; 6:45-50. doi: 10.22603/ssrr.2021-0025

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35224246/
