PMID: 35227117
Title: Case Report: Extended Duration Andexanet Alfa Infusion in a Surgical Trauma Patient.

Abstract: Background: Andexanet alfa (andexanet) is the only FDA-approved medication for reversal of apixaban and rivaroxaban anticoagulation for life-threatening or uncontrolled bleeding. Infusion modifications may be required in surgical patients undergoing prolonged operative intervention but have not previously been described. Case Report: A 78-year-old woman on rivaroxaban for atrial fibrillation was admitted to the trauma service for a mechanical fall, sustaining a T4 burst fracture with severe canal stenosis and spinal cord edema resulting in loss of strength and sensation in her legs. Clinically relevant rivaroxaban activity was verified with an elevated low molecular weight heparin anti-factor Xa assay, and laboratory confirmed coagulopathy was demonstrated by a prolonged prothrombin time, thromboelastography (TEG) R-time, and activated clotting time (ACT). The patient required urgent surgical intervention for spinal fixation. Given the expected prolonged duration of the procedure, standard dose andexanet was initiated with a prolonged infusion at half the standard rate during the operation. The procedure was successful and intraoperative TEGs demonstrated normalization of R-time and ACT throughout the procedure. The patient did not experience any complications postoperatively and successfully discharged to inpatient rehabilitation. Conclusion: Modifications to the andexanet infusion may be required in surgical patients requiring rivaroxaban reversal for a prolonged procedure. Further data are needed to determine the optimal approach to infusion modification.

Citation: Philpott CD, et al. Case Report: Extended Duration Andexanet Alfa Infusion in a Surgical Trauma Patient. Case Report: Extended Duration Andexanet Alfa Infusion in a Surgical Trauma Patient. 2023; 36:1002-1007. doi: 10.1177/08971900221078779

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35227117/
