PMID: 35233483
Title: Unexpected suicide left ventricle post-surgical aortic valve replacement requiring veno-arterial extracorporeal membrane oxygenation support despite gold-standard therapy: a case report.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Suicide left ventricle is a well-documented phenomenon occurring after valve replacement, however, it is most commonly described in the mitral valve replacement (MVR) and transcatheter aortic valve replacement (TAVR) population. Cases within the surgical aortic valve replacement (SAVR) population usually resolve with optimal medical and interventional therapies. We describe a case of left ventricular suicide following SAVR presenting with persistent haemodynamic instability despite currently accepted medical and surgical therapies.
CASE SUMMARY: A 62-year-old male with severe aortic stenosis presented for SAVR and a MAZE procedure. There were no significant signs of ventricular hypertrophy on preoperative transthoracic echocardiogram (TTE). Intraoperatively, there was mild chordal systolic anterior motion of the mitral valve (SAM) which only occurred when underfilled. During recovery in the intensive care unit, the patient's pulmonary arterial pressures were noted to rise with worsening cardiac output. Subsequent TTE showed severe dynamic left ventricular outflow tract (LVOT) obstruction secondary to SAM. Due to refractory medical management, an alcohol septal ablation was performed. Despite resolution of obstruction, the patient exhibited biochemical signs of systemic hypoperfusion, and thus veno-arterial extracorporeal membrane oxygenation (VA-ECMO) support was initiated. Following 72 h of VA-ECMO support, the patient was weaned with complete resolution of biochemical insults. He was subsequently discharged from the hospital without complication.
DISCUSSION: Compared to the TAVR population, suicide ventricle post-SAVR is comparatively rare. Patients who exhibit persistent impaired cardiac output postoperatively should be investigated rapidly with echocardiography. Furthermore, resolution of a LVOT obstruction state from procedural intervention may not immediately follow with improved cardiac output, and may require further supportive management.

Citation: Lioufas PA, et al. Unexpected suicide left ventricle post-surgical aortic valve replacement requiring veno-arterial extracorporeal membrane oxygenation support despite gold-standard therapy: a case report. Unexpected suicide left ventricle post-surgical aortic valve replacement requiring veno-arterial extracorporeal membrane oxygenation support despite gold-standard therapy: a case report. 2022; 6:ytac020. doi: 10.1093/ehjcr/ytac020

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35233483/
