PMID: 35233310
Title: Association of Anxiety and Depression in Patients Undergoing Cardiac Catheterization With Number of Major Coronary Artery Stenosis: A Cross-Sectional Study.

Abstract: Introduction The relationship between the level of anxiety and depression among coronary artery disease (CAD) patients and coronary angiographic findings is ambiguously mentioned in studies. Past evidence shows that the relationship between anxiety and depression with coronary artery disease can be bidirectional. There is a paucity of literature on the association of levels of anxiety and depression with the number of coronary arteries involved in coronary artery disease. Methods This study was conducted in a tertiary care hospital to find the level of anxiety and depression in patients undergoing cardiac catheterization and their association with the numbers of the major coronary artery involved. Patients undergoing cardiac catheterization in the Department of Cardiovascular Science of a tertiary care hospital in India from May 2020 to December 2020 were considered for inclusion in the study. Coronary artery disease was diagnosed based on the combination of clinical, ECG, echocardiography, or biomarker parameters in various combinations. These patients were further subjected to coronary angiogram to know the extent of stenosis and the number of coronary vessels involved in the disease. The level of anxiety and depression was measured by using the Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale (HADS) during the period of admission and at least 24 hours after diagnosis and at least 12 hours before cardiac catheterization. The data was entered into SPSS software version 22.0 (Armonk, NY: IBM Corp.) for statistical analysis. Chi-square test, Kolmogorov-Smirnov test, and Kruskal-Wallis test were used for the interpretation of data and find an association between severity of anxiety and depression with the number of major coronary vessels involved. Results Anxiety was seen in 83.3% of the patients with 31.5% having severe anxiety. Depression was found in 77.8% with 38.9% suffering from severe depression. The anxiety and depression scores of HADS were significantly higher in those with triple-vessel disease compared to the double-vessel or single-vessel disease. Conclusion Screening and management of anxiety and depression is an essential part of the care of patients with coronary artery disease. People with triple-vessel disease need the most attention and appropriate management of anxiety and depression.

Citation: Das DR, et al. Association of Anxiety and Depression in Patients Undergoing Cardiac Catheterization With Number of Major Coronary Artery Stenosis: A Cross-Sectional Study. Association of Anxiety and Depression in Patients Undergoing Cardiac Catheterization With Number of Major Coronary Artery Stenosis: A Cross-Sectional Study. 2022; 14:e21630. doi: 10.7759/cureus.21630

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35233310/
