PMID: 35235080
Title: Surgical resection of mixed neuroendocrine-non-neuroendocrine neoplasm in the biliary system: a report of two cases.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Mixed neuroendocrine-non-neuroendocrine neoplasm (MINEN) is a rare disease and there is scarce literature on its diagnosis, treatment, and prognosis. We encountered two unusual cases of MINEN in the biliary tract, one in the ampulla of Vater and the other in the distal bile duct. In this report, we describe the clinical course of these two cases in detail.
CASE PRESENTATION: Case 1: A 69-year-old woman presented with a chief complaint of epigastric pain. When endoscopic sphincterotomy and retrograde biliary drainage were performed for gallstone pancreatitis, an ulcerated lesion was found in the ampulla of the Vater. Based on the biopsy results, the lesion was diagnosed as the ampulla of Vater carcinoma and subtotal stomach-preserving pancreatoduodenectomy (SSPPD) was performed. Postoperative histopathological examination revealed the coexistence of adenocarcinoma and neuroendocrine carcinoma components, consistent with the diagnosis of MINEN. In addition, lymph node metastasis was found on the dorsal side of the pancreas and the metastatic component was adenocarcinoma. Adjuvant chemotherapy with etoposide and cisplatin was administered for 6 months, and presently the patient is alive without recurrence 64 months after surgery. Case 2: A 79-year-old man presented with a chief complaint of anorexia. Cholangiography showed severe stenosis of the distal bile duct. A biopsy was conducted from the stenotic lesion and it revealed the lesion to be adenocarcinoma. A diagnosis of distal bile duct carcinoma was made, and SSPPD was performed. Histopathological examination revealed the coexistence of adenocarcinoma and neuroendocrine carcinoma components, and the tumor was confirmed as MINEN of the distal bile duct. No adjuvant chemotherapy was administered due to the poor performance status. 7 months later, the patient was found to have a liver metastasis.
CONCLUSION: We experienced two valuable cases of biliary MINEN. To identify better treatments, it is important to consider the diversity of individual cases and to continue sharing a variety of cases with different presentations.

Citation: Tamaki A, et al. Surgical resection of mixed neuroendocrine-non-neuroendocrine neoplasm in the biliary system: a report of two cases. Surgical resection of mixed neuroendocrine-non-neuroendocrine neoplasm in the biliary system: a report of two cases. 2022; 8:38. doi: 10.1186/s40792-022-01386-w

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35235080/
