PMID: 35238698
Title: Stent Angioplasty for Post-Operative Coronary Artery Stenosis in Infants.

Abstract: INTRODUCTION: While frequently performed in the adult population, percutaneous coronary artery stent angioplasty (CSA) in infants is rare. CSA in infants is challenging because of limited options in terms of appropriately sized (length and diameter) stents, concern about stenting vessels with significant growth potential and limited data regarding durability of benefit. We report a multicenter case series of infants who underwent CSA.
METHODS: A multicenter, retrospective case series of infants who underwent percutaneous CSA to treat post-operative coronary artery stenoses was performed.
RESULTS: Six infants from 3 institutions who underwent post-operative CSA were identified. The anatomic diagnoses were d-transposition of the great arteries in 3 cases, anomalous left coronary artery from the pulmonary artery in 2 and supravalvar aortic stenosis in 1. All infants were critically ill at the time of CSA. Diameters of coronary artery stents used ranged from 2.25 to 2.75 mm. There were no procedural complications. All stents were patent immediately after placement and the clinical condition improved or stabilized in all patients. Follow-up angiography was available for 3 patients at 4 to 16 months post-CSA, at which time 67% (2/3) remained patent.
CONCLUSION: CSA is a feasible and effective therapy for critically ill infants with post-surgical coronary obstruction. Treatment appears to allow at least short-term reperfusion to facilitate recovery of ventricular function and potential development of collateral circulation when longer-term stent patency is not achieved. Longer-term stent patency and coronary artery health remain unanswered questions.

Citation: Chaszczewski KJ, et al. Stent Angioplasty for Post-Operative Coronary Artery Stenosis in Infants. Stent Angioplasty for Post-Operative Coronary Artery Stenosis in Infants. 2022; 13:203-207. doi: 10.1177/21501351221074617

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35238698/
