PMID: 35249231
Title: The prognostic value of left ventricular dimensions at the time of transcatheter aortic valve replacement: A propensity-matched analysis.

Abstract: AIMS: In the clinical practice a noteworthy proportion of severe symptomatic aortic stenosis patients presents with low-flow low-gradients features, these having reported a less favorable prognosis even when surgically or transcatheter treated.
METHODS AND RESULTS: We retrospectively analyzed the prospectively collected data on 1051 consecutive patients undergone balloon-expandable transcatheter aortic valve replacement at our Institution from January 2008 to January 2020. We divided the population according with a mean aortic gradient (MAG) &lt; or ≥40 mmHg and we performed a propensity-matched analysis based on the Society of Thoracic Surgery Score and age, obtaining two homogeneous groups of 314 patients each (Groups A and B, respectively). We then analyzed the outcomes of the two groups by implementing adjusted Cox models adjusted for significant clinical differences between the two groups, such as sex, ejection fraction, comorbidities and other variables not included in the propensity-matched analysis. The only variable associated with both cardiovascular and all-cause events was an ejection fraction ≤35%. Finally, a sensitivity analysis found that an ejection fraction ≤35% was associated with an increase cardiovascular and all-cause mortality only in patients with an indexed end-diastolic volume &gt;97 ml/m2 (p = .0438 and .3363, respectively).
CONCLUSIONS: In our series a MAG <40 mmHg was not found to be per se an independent risk factor for cardiac and all-cause mortality after transcatheter aortic valve replacement. The ejection fraction was found to be an independent risk factor only in the context of enlarged left ventricular dimensions.

Citation: Gennari M, et al. The prognostic value of left ventricular dimensions at the time of transcatheter aortic valve replacement: A propensity-matched analysis. The prognostic value of left ventricular dimensions at the time of transcatheter aortic valve replacement: A propensity-matched analysis. 2022; 37:1887-1893. doi: 10.1111/jocs.16381

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35249231/
