PMID: 35249850
Title: Transcatheter closure of tubular patent ductus arteriosus using muscular ventricular septal defect devices in infants and small children with congestive heart failure.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Transcatheter closure of a patent ductus arteriosus in children is widely performed to reduce symptoms and decrease the risk of endocarditis. Most arterial ducts are closed successfully with dedicated devices. However, in a tubular or "type C" patent ductus arteriosus with congestive heart failure, the occlusion is more challenging with these devices, with a higher risk of complications, such as aortic or left pulmonary stenosis and device embolization.
AIM: To report our experience with muscular ventricular septal defect devices for patent ductus arteriosus occlusion in small children.
METHODS: Retrospective observational series of patients weighing<10kg, with a tubular patent ductus arteriosus (typeC) and congestive heart failure, who underwent transcatheter closure with a muscular ventricular septal defect device between 2017 and 2019.
RESULTS: Eight patients were included. The mean age and weight at closure were 6.3 months (range 1-18 months) and 5.3kg (range 2.4-8.2kg), respectively. All patent ductus arteriosus were occluded successfully using Occlutech® (N=3) or Amplatzer® (N=5) muscular ventricular septal defect devices. In four cases, the muscular ventricular septal defect device was used after failure to close the patent ductus arteriosus with a dedicated patent ductus arteriosus device. Two patients had mild left pulmonary artery stenosis, with a maximum velocity on continuous Doppler of 3m/s and 2.7m/s, respectively. After a mean follow-up of 28 months (range 14-41 months), all patients were asymptomatic with excellent results. The mild pulmonary stenosis improved, with a maximum velocity of 2.3m/s in both patients.
CONCLUSIONS: Closure of tubular patent ductus arteriosus in small children with congestive heart failure using a muscular ventricular septal defect device is safe in this preliminary experience. Further studies with more patients are warranted.

Citation: Salam A, et al. Transcatheter closure of tubular patent ductus arteriosus using muscular ventricular septal defect devices in infants and small children with congestive heart failure. Transcatheter closure of tubular patent ductus arteriosus using muscular ventricular septal defect devices in infants and small children with congestive heart failure. 2022; 115:134-141. doi: 10.1016/j.acvd.2022.01.003

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35249850/
