PMID: 35244076
Title: Internal carotid artery occlusion related to poorly controlled rheumatoid arthritis presenting with continuous hand shaking: A case report and literature review.

Abstract: RATIONALE: Limb-shaking syndrome is a special manifestation of transient ischemic attack, resulting from internal carotid artery (ICA) occlusion. Extra-articular manifestations of rheumatoid arthritis (RA) are likely to occur in patients with severe or active RA. RA may accelerate atherosclerotic processes through inflammation. Here, we present a case of ICA occlusion related to poorly controlled RA that presented with continuous hand shaking.
PATIENT CONCERNS: A 73-year-old man with a history of poorly controlled RA developed total occlusion of the right ICA in recent 4 months. He presented with 2 days of continuous and rhythmic left-hand shaking before admission.
DIAGNOSIS: The patient was suspected to have transient ischemic attack resulting from ICA occlusion.
INTERVENTIONS: Antiplatelets and antiepileptic drugs were used for continuous nonepileptic focal myoclonus. A disease-modifying antirheumatic drug-based regimen for RA was developed to prevent further atherosclerosis.
OUTCOMES: Following the initial intervention, continuous hand shaking subsided on hospital day 7. Prednisolone was titrated as an active RA control. At the 6-month follow-up visit, neither painful wrist swelling nor recurrent shaking of the hand was noted.
LESSONS: Continuous hand shaking (nonepileptic focal myoclonus) can be the initial presentation of ICA occlusion in patients with poorly controlled RA. Every patient with RA should be treated aggressively with anti-rheumatic agents since RA is an independent risk factor for stroke. Additionally, every patient with RA should be surveyed for ICA stenosis, especially in those with poor control.

Citation: Chien CF, et al. Internal carotid artery occlusion related to poorly controlled rheumatoid arthritis presenting with continuous hand shaking: A case report and literature review. Internal carotid artery occlusion related to poorly controlled rheumatoid arthritis presenting with continuous hand shaking: A case report and literature review. 2022; 101:e29001. doi: 10.1097/MD.0000000000029001

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35244076/
