PMID: 35245104
Title: Multimodality Imaging after Liver Transplant: Top 10 Important Complications.

Abstract: Patients who have undergone liver transplant are now regularly seen in day-to-day radiology practice. All surgical techniques for liver transplant require arterial, portal venous, hepatic venous and caval, and biliary anastomoses. This review is focused on the 10 "not to be missed" complications of liver transplant that affect the health and life of the graft and graft recipient. Arterial complications are the most common and devastating. Early hepatic artery thrombosis may be catastrophic because the biliary tree is solely dependent on the hepatic artery after transplant and collateral vessels have not yet formed. In contrast, delayed hepatic artery thrombosis may be more insidious as collateral arteries develop. US findings of delayed hepatic artery thrombosis may be similar to those of hepatic artery stenosis and celiac artery stenosis. Splenic artery steal syndrome is an increasingly recognized cause of graft ischemia. Venous complications are much less common. Hepatic venous and caval complications are notable for their increased incidence in living-donor and pediatric transplants. Biliary complications often result from arterial ischemia. Biliary cast syndrome is a notable example in which ischemic biliary mucosa sloughs into and obstructs the duct lumens. Neoplasms also may occur within the hepatic graft and may be due to recurrent malignancy, posttransplant lymphoproliferative disorder, or metastases. US is the initial imaging modality of choice, particularly in the acute postoperative setting. Further evaluation with contrast-enhanced US, CT, or MRI; catheter angiography; endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography; and/or nuclear medicine studies is performed as needed. An invited commentary by Bhargava is available online. Online supplemental material is available for this article. ©RSNA, 2022.

Citation: Brookmeyer CE, et al. Multimodality Imaging after Liver Transplant: Top 10 Important Complications. Multimodality Imaging after Liver Transplant: Top 10 Important Complications. 2022; 42:702-721. doi: 10.1148/rg.210108

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35245104/
