PMID: 35243565
Title: Surgical management of lumbar spinal stenosis in patients over 80: is there an increased risk?

Abstract: Management of lumbar spinal stenosis (LSS) represents the first cause of spinal surgery for the elderly and will increase with the aging population. Although the surgery improves quality of life, the procedure involves anaesthetic and operative risks. The aim of this study was to assess whether the postoperative complication rate was higher for elderly patients and to find confounding factors. We conducted a retrospective study including all LSS surgeries between 2012 and 2020 at the University Hospital of Caen. We compared two populations opposing patients aged over 80 with others. The primary endpoint was the occurrence of a severe complication (SC). Minor complications were the secondary endpoint. Comorbidities, history of lumbar spine surgery and surgical characteristics were recorded. Nine hundred ninety-six patients undergoing surgery for degenerative LSS were identified. Patients over 80 were significantly affected by additional comorbidities: hypertension, heart diseases, higher age-adjusted comorbidity Charlson score, ASA score and use of anticoagulants. Knee-chest position was preferred for younger patients. Older patients underwent a more extensive decompression and had more incidental durotomies. Of the patients, 5.2% presented SC. Age over 80 did not appear to be a significant risk factor for SC, but minor complications increased. Multivariate analysis showed that heart diseases, history of laminectomy, AA-CCI and accidental durotomies were independent risk factors for SC. Surgical management for lumbar spinal stenosis is not associated to a higher rate of severe complications for patients over 80 years of age. However, preoperative risk factors should be investigated to warn the elderly patients that the complication risk is increased although an optimal preparation is the way to avoid them.

Citation: Rault F, et al. Surgical management of lumbar spinal stenosis in patients over 80: is there an increased risk?. Surgical management of lumbar spinal stenosis in patients over 80: is there an increased risk?. 2022; 45:2385-2399. doi: 10.1007/s10143-022-01756-w

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35243565/
