PMID: 35240948
Title: Cyclopeptide-β-cyclodextrin/γ-glycerol methoxytrimethoxysilane film for potential vascular tissue engineering scaffolds.

Abstract: The mortality rate of cardiovascular diseases is the highest among all mortality rates worldwide. Allotransplantation and autotransplantation are limited by rejection reaction and availability. Tissue engineering provides new avenues for the treatment of cardiovascular diseases. However, the current small-diameter (&lt;6 mm) vascular tissue-engineered scaffolds have many challenges, including thrombosis, stenosis, and infection. Small-diameter vascular scaffolds have structural and compositional requirements such as biocompatibility, porosity, and appropriate phase separation. We used liquid-crystal cyclopeptide（CYC）to modify β-cyclodextrin and mixed it with γ-glycerol methoxytrimethoxysilane (GPTMS) to prepare CYC-β-cyclodextrin (βCD)/GPTMS film by sol-gel. The chemical structure of CYC-βCD was confirmed by Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy and 1H-nuclear magnetic resonance. The chemical characterization of CYC-βCD/GPTMS film was performed by differential scanning calorimetry, X-ray diffraction, and small-angle X-ray scattering. The surface morphology and phase separation microstructure of the film were determined by scanning electron microscopy and atomic force microscopy, and the image of polarizing microscopy showed the liquid-crystal structure of the film. Cell culture experiments showed that CYC-βCD/GPTMS film had good cytocompatibility and induced growth and proliferation of cells. These results indicated the potential applications of CYC-βCD/GPTMS film in tissue engineering scaffolds.

Citation: Mao H, et al. Cyclopeptide-β-cyclodextrin/γ-glycerol methoxytrimethoxysilane film for potential vascular tissue engineering scaffolds. Cyclopeptide-β-cyclodextrin/γ-glycerol methoxytrimethoxysilane film for potential vascular tissue engineering scaffolds. 2022; 33:1213-1230. doi: 10.1080/09205063.2022.2046985

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35240948/
