PMID: 35256900
Title: Diagnosis of Blood Vessel Stenosis Caused by Arterial Thrombosis of Lower Extremities by Ultrasound Based on the Mobile Information System.

Abstract: The thrombosis process is a multifactorial evolution process that includes many genetic and environmental factors that interact with each other. It refers to the existence of blood deposits in the heart or blood vessel walls or abnormal blood clots in the circulatory blood flow during the survival period of humans or animals for some reason. This article aims to analyze the research of blood vessel stenosis caused by arterial thrombosis of the lower extremities under the diagnosis of cardiac ultrasound based on the mobile information system. This article first introduces the mobile information nursing system and its development process. The mobile nursing information system has experienced three stages of development and is an important application of the further development of science and technology in medical information technology. It also proposes a medical diagnosis method based on SRM on a mobile platform and gives a technical roadmap for heart sound analysis and processing. Then, based on the mobile information system, the formation of arterial thrombosis in the lower extremities was analyzed and discussed in the ultrasound diagnosis of the heart, and the vascular stenosis caused by the arterial thrombosis of the lower extremities was analyzed by imaging. Experimental results show that when there is >50% stenosis or complete occlusion, the CTA false positive is more prominent, especially when the calf artery type is complete stenosis. The main cause is that the circulation of the lower limbs is very poor, the blood entering the blood vessels of the lower limbs is scarce, the capillaries are weakly enhanced, and the quality cannot be improved.

Citation: Wu L and Zhang C. Diagnosis of Blood Vessel Stenosis Caused by Arterial Thrombosis of Lower Extremities by Ultrasound Based on the Mobile Information System. Diagnosis of Blood Vessel Stenosis Caused by Arterial Thrombosis of Lower Extremities by Ultrasound Based on the Mobile Information System. 2022; 2022:7282192. doi: 10.1155/2022/7282192

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35256900/
