PMID: 35255286
Title: The Circulating Biomarker Fractalkine and Platelet-Derived Growth Factor BB are Correlated with Carotid Plaque Vulnerability Assessed by Computed Tomography Angiography.

Abstract: OBJECTIVES: Although studies have demonstrated that inflammatory and lipid/ lipoproteins-related biomarkers, genetic mutations, and epigenetic mechanisms could be candidates for diagnosis and prognosis of ischemic stroke, there is still no consensus on how to identify vulnerable plaques based on circulating biomarkers.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Histological and immunohistochemical staining were performed in the aorta sections of ApoE-/- and WT mice. Eighty-nine patients who underwent CTA were included in this study. The degree of carotid stenosis and the wall features of plaque components were quantitatively analyzed. And the serum concentration of FKN and PDGF-BB were measured.
RESULTS: (1) The type V vulnerable atherosclerotic plaques deposited on the aortas of ApoE-/- mice after feeding with western diet for 16 weeks. And the expression of CX3CR1 and PDGFR-β increased in the areas of atherosclerotic plaques, especially inside the fibrous cap of plaque. (2) Patients with symptomatic carotid stenosis showed larger LNRC, smaller calcified plaques and more plaque ulceration detected by CTA than asymptomatic stenosis patients. Plaque ulceration and size of LNRC were high risk factors for stroke while plaque calcification was less frequently associated with cerebrovascular ischemia. (3) The serum concentration of FKN was lower and of PDGF-BB was higher in the patients with carotid artery stenosis. Correlation analysis suggested that FKN and PDGF-BB correlated positively with carotid plaque calcification and LNRC respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: For prediction it is recommended to combine circulating biomarkers (FKN and PDGF-BB) and imaging biomarkersfor comprehensive diagnosis and risk stratification in carotid atherosclerotic stroke.

Citation: Yuan X, et al. The Circulating Biomarker Fractalkine and Platelet-Derived Growth Factor BB are Correlated with Carotid Plaque Vulnerability Assessed by Computed Tomography Angiography. The Circulating Biomarker Fractalkine and Platelet-Derived Growth Factor BB are Correlated with Carotid Plaque Vulnerability Assessed by Computed Tomography Angiography. 2022; 31:106422. doi: 10.1016/j.jstrokecerebrovasdis.2022.106422

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35255286/
