PMID: 35255875
Title: Microsurgical treatment of middle cerebral artery stenosis or occlusion: a single center experience and literature review.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: To investigate the effect of superficial temporal artery-middle cerebral artery (STA-MCA) bypass in the treatment of MCA stenosis or occlusion.
METHODS: The clinical and imaging data of 31 MCA stenosis or occlusion patients with STA-MCA bypass were analyzed retrospectively. The operation was performed by STA-MCA M4 segment bypass via the frontotemporal approach. Modified Rankin Scale (mRS) was used to evaluate the neurological function of patients.
RESULTS: After operation, head computed tomography (CT) showed that there was no new infarction or hemorrhage in the operation area. CTA and CTP showed that the bypass vessel was unobstructed in 29 cases and the cerebral perfusion was improved in 31 cases. Among the 31 patients, 7 patients had postoperative complications and 13 patients had improvement of clinical symptoms. The other patients had no complications and the clinical symptoms remained unchanged. The mRs score of 31 patients after operation indicated that the neurological function was significantly improved than pre-operation. Of the 31 patients, 23 cases were followed up. The mRs score showed that the neurological function of these 23 patients was further improved than that at discharge. In addition, DSA (or CTA) and CTP showed that the bypass vessel was unobstructed and the cerebral perfusion was further improved.
CONCLUSION: STA-MCA bypass was an effective method for the treatment of MCA stenosis or occlusion. However, the results should be further verified by large sample, multi-center and long-term follow-up.

Citation: Zhang L, et al. Microsurgical treatment of middle cerebral artery stenosis or occlusion: a single center experience and literature review. Microsurgical treatment of middle cerebral artery stenosis or occlusion: a single center experience and literature review. 2022; 22:87. doi: 10.1186/s12893-022-01539-6

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35255875/
