PMID: 35259271
Title: Eicosatetraynoic Acid and Butyrate Regulate Human Intestinal Organoid Mitochondrial and Extracellular Matrix Pathways Implicated in Crohn's Disease Strictures.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Perturbagen analysis of Crohn's disease (CD) ileal gene expression data identified small molecules including eicosatetraynoic acid (ETYA), which may exert an antifibrotic effect. We developed a patient-specific human intestinal organoid (HIO) model system to test small molecule regulation of mitochondrial and wound-healing functions implicated in stricturing behavior.
METHODS: HIOs were made from CD induced pluripotent stem cells with and without a loss-of-function haplotype in the DUOX2 gene implicated in ileal homeostasis and characterized under basal conditions and following exposure to butyrate and ETYA using RNA sequencing, flow cytometry, and immunofluorescent and polarized light microscopy. Mitochondrial activity was measured using high-resolution respirometry and tissue stiffness using atomic force microscopy.
RESULTS: HIOs expressed core mitochondrial and extracellular matrix (ECM) genes and enriched biologic functions implicated in CD ileal strictures; ECM gene expression was suppressed by both butyrate and ETYA, with butyrate also suppressing genes regulating epithelial proliferation. Consistent with this, butyrate, but not ETYA, exerted a profound effect on HIO epithelial mitochondrial function, reactive oxygen species production, and cellular abundance. Butyrate and ETYA suppressed HIO expression of alpha smooth muscle actin expressed by myofibroblasts, type I collagen, and collagen protein abundance. HIOs exhibited tissue stiffness comparable to normal human ileum; this was reduced by chronic ETYA exposure in HIOs carrying the DUOX2 loss-of-function haplotype.
CONCLUSIONS: ETYA regulates ECM genes implicated in strictures and suppresses collagen content and tissue stiffness in an HIO model. HIOs provide a platform to test personalized therapeutics, including small molecules prioritized by perturbagen analysis.

Citation: Jurickova I, et al. Eicosatetraynoic Acid and Butyrate Regulate Human Intestinal Organoid Mitochondrial and Extracellular Matrix Pathways Implicated in Crohn's Disease Strictures. Eicosatetraynoic Acid and Butyrate Regulate Human Intestinal Organoid Mitochondrial and Extracellular Matrix Pathways Implicated in Crohn's Disease Strictures. 2022; 28:988-1003. doi: 10.1093/ibd/izac037

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35259271/
