PMID: 35263860
Title: Carotid Endarterectomy and Carotid Artery Stenting for Symptomatic Carotid Stenosis: An Experience of a Hybrid Neurosurgeon in a Developing Nation.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Stenosis of the ICA is an important cause of ischemic stroke and associated morbidity and mortality. Carotid artery stenting (CAS) and carotid endarterectomy (CEA) help to prevent impending or subsequent ischemic stroke in such patients.
AIM AND OBJECTIVE: To study the outcome and adverse events associated with CEA and CAS. To determine the generalization of results obtained with multicentric trials such as CREST, etc., by comparing the results obtained by a single neurosurgeon in a community setting.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: From Jan 2014-Dec 2017, 80 patients presented with symptomatic carotid stenosis. Out of these 80 patients, 65 underwent intervention; 34 patients underwent CEA and 31 patients underwent CAS. Pre-defined variables like age, sex, and degree of stenosis were assessed as potential risk factors, and the patients' clinical features, radiological imaging, and procedural complications were documented.
RESULTS: The primary outcome of procedure-related stroke, major adverse events (MAEs), and death at 30 days follow-up and long-term outcomes of restenosis at 1 year were analyzed. Peri-procedural stroke occurred in 2 cases (6.4%) of CAS; one suffered an ischemic stroke and other suffered a hemorrhagic stroke. Three cases of CEA suffered procedure-related events; one (2.9%) suffered TIA while the other two developed postoperative local hematoma without neurological deficit; one was treated conservatively while the other required re-exploration due to pressure symptoms. Restenosis occurred in one case that underwent CAS.
CONCLUSION: CAS and CEA are complementary approaches in treating symptomatic carotid stenosis even when performed by a single hybrid neurosurgeon as results obtained are commensurable to major studies like CREST.

Citation: Diyora B, et al. Carotid Endarterectomy and Carotid Artery Stenting for Symptomatic Carotid Stenosis: An Experience of a Hybrid Neurosurgeon in a Developing Nation. Carotid Endarterectomy and Carotid Artery Stenting for Symptomatic Carotid Stenosis: An Experience of a Hybrid Neurosurgeon in a Developing Nation. 2022; 70:94-101. doi: 10.4103/0028-3886.336326

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35263860/
