PMID: 35262844
Title: Prophylactic endoluminal vacuum therapy after major gastrointestinal surgery: a systematic review.

Abstract: In the last decade, endoluminal vacuum therapy (eVAC) has emerged as an effective treatment for anastomotic leak (AL); however, little is known regarding its prophylactic use. In this systematic review we evaluated overall outcomes in patients undergoing major gastrointestinal surgery and treated with prophylactic eVAC. A systematic review of English articles on four electronic databases was performed according to the PRISMA statement up until January 2022. References of selected articles were manually screened to identify relevant missing papers. Primary endpoints were AL and mortality rates estimates. Secondary endpoints included analysis of eVAC-associated morbidity, treatment duration, long-term complications, and general indications for the eVAC management in the perioperative period. A total of 11 studies (5 case reports, 5 retrospective case series and a retrospective, case-control study) were included in the analysis. AL ranged from 0 to 25%. No major eVAC-associated complications were observed, except for sponge dislocation or obstruction. Overall mortality ranged between 0 and 12.5%; however, these fatalities were neither related to the use of eVAC, nor to AL-associated complications. The most frequent long-term complication was anastomotic stenosis responsive to endoscopic dilatation in most cases. The operating negative pressure ranged from -25 to -125 mmHg among different papers. In all studies but two, prophylactic eVAC was applied to anastomoses at high risk of dehiscence based on the subjective evaluation of the leading surgeon. In conclusion, prophylactic eVAC is safe and it could lead to potential benefit for prevention of AL, especially in high-risk anastomoses.

Citation: Adamenko O, et al. Prophylactic endoluminal vacuum therapy after major gastrointestinal surgery: a systematic review. Prophylactic endoluminal vacuum therapy after major gastrointestinal surgery: a systematic review. 2022; 74:1177-1186. doi: 10.1007/s13304-022-01265-x

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35262844/
