PMID: 35262582
Title: The Dysfunctional Scenario of the Major Components Responsible for Myocardial Calcium Balance in Heart Failure Induced by Aortic Stenosis.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Maladaptive cardiac remodelling is characterized by diastolic and systolic dysfunction, culminating in heart failure. In this context, the dysfunctional scenario of cardiac calcium (Ca2+) handling has been poorly studied. An experimental model of aortic stenosis has been extensively used to improve knowledge about the key mechanisms of cardiac pathologic remodelling.
OBJECTIVE: To understand the dysfunctional process of the major components responsible for Ca2+ balance and its influence on cardiac function in heart failure induced by aortic stenosis.
METHODS: Male 21-day-old Wistar rats were distributed into two groups: control (sham; n= 28) and aortic stenosis (AoS; n= 18). Cardiac function was analysed by echocardiogram, isolated papillary muscle, and isolated cardiomyocytes. In the papillary muscle assay, SERCA2a and L-type Ca2+ channel activity was evaluated. The isolated cardiomyocyte assay evaluated Ca2+ handling. Ca2+ handling protein expression was analysed by western blot. Statistical significance was set at p <0.05.
RESULTS: Papillary muscles and cardiomyocytes from AoS hearts displayed mechanical malfunction. AoS rats presented a slower time to the Ca2+ peak, reduced Ca2+ myofilament sensitivity, impaired sarcoplasmic reticulum Ca2+ influx and reuptake ability, and SERCA2a and L-type calcium channel (LTCC) dysfunction. Moreover, AoS animals presented increased expression of SERCA2a, LTCCs, and the Na+/Ca2+ exchanger.
CONCLUSION: Systolic and diastolic heart failure due to supravalvular aortic stenosis was paralleled by impairment of cellular Ca2+ influx and inhibition of sarcoplasmic reticulum Ca2+ reuptake due to LTCC and SERCA2a dysfunction, as well as changes in Ca2+ handling and expression of the major proteins responsible for cellular Ca2+ homeostasis.

Citation: Silva VLD, et al. The Dysfunctional Scenario of the Major Components Responsible for Myocardial Calcium Balance in Heart Failure Induced by Aortic Stenosis. The Dysfunctional Scenario of the Major Components Responsible for Myocardial Calcium Balance in Heart Failure Induced by Aortic Stenosis. 2022; 118:463-475. doi: 10.36660/abc.20200618

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35262582/
