PMID: 35261708
Title: Non-surgical management of an acute decompensated heart failure patient with severe aortic stenosis and concomitant left ventricular outflow tract obstruction.

Abstract: Acute decompensated heart failure (ADHF) due to severe aortic stenosis (AS) and concomitant left ventricular outflow tract (LVOT) obstruction is a serious condition. Treatment with medication alone is sometimes difficult, and the efficacy of further interventional strategies has not been fully elucidated. In patients with high surgical risks, combination therapy using transcatheter aortic valve replacement (TAVR) and percutaneous alcohol septal ablation (ASA) is used as a non-surgical intervention. However, this treatment cannot be performed under unstable hemodynamic conditions. This report highlights the utility and efficacy of emergent balloon aortic valvuloplasty (BAV) in controlling heart failure and its potential to serve as a bridge to curative therapy, even in older patients with ADHF due to severe AS with concomitant LVOT obstruction. Furthermore, combination therapy with TAVR and percutaneous ASA could be safely performed after controlling for ADHF using BAV. Non-surgical management is a more feasible treatment option in older patients with ADHF who are at higher risk of complications during surgical intervention. &lt;Learning objective: Management of acute decompensated heart failure (ADHF) due to severe aortic stenosis (AS) and concomitant left ventricular outflow tract (LVOT) obstruction can be difficult. Despite concomitant LVOT obstruction, emergent balloon aortic valvuloplasty is potentially useful and effective for controlling heart failure and could become a bridge to subsequent combination therapy using transcatheter aortic valve replacement and percutaneous alcohol septal ablation. This sequential non-surgical management is a novel strategy for older patients with high surgical risk and ADHF due to severe AS with concomitant LVOT obstruction.&gt;.

Citation: Hamana T, et al. Non-surgical management of an acute decompensated heart failure patient with severe aortic stenosis and concomitant left ventricular outflow tract obstruction. Non-surgical management of an acute decompensated heart failure patient with severe aortic stenosis and concomitant left ventricular outflow tract obstruction. 2022; 25:188-192. doi: 10.1016/j.jccase.2021.09.005

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35261708/
