PMID: 35261038
Title: Real-time three-dimensional echocardiography and two-dimensional speckle tracking imaging in the evaluation of left atrial function in patients with triple-vessel coronary artery disease without myocardial infarction.

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: To evaluate left atrial function in patients with triple-vessel disease (TVD) without myocardial infarction by real-time three-dimensional echocardiography (RT-3DE) and two-dimensional speckle tracking imaging (2D-STE).
METHODS: Sixty patients with coronary artery disease (CAD) without myocardial infarction were classified into two groups in accordance with the coronary angiography results: group B (all triple-vessel stenosis ≥ 50% and < 75%) and group C (all triple-vessel stenosis ≥ 75%). Thirty healthy individuals were selected as group A. LA volume related parameters including left atrial maximum volume index (LAVImax), LA passive and active ejection fraction (LAPEF, LAAEF) and LA total ejection fraction (LATEF) were measured by RT-3DE. The global peak atrial longitudinal systolic strain (LASRs), early and late diastolic LA strain (LASRe and LASRa) rates were measured by 2D-STE.
RESULTS: We found statistically significant differences between 2D-STE and RT-3DE related parameters of these three groups. Furthermore, in groups B and C, N-terminal fragment brain natriuretic peptides (NT-pro-BNP) and left ventricular end-diastolic pressure (LVEDP) were found to be significantly correlated with LASRs and LASRa. And NT-pro-BNP had a moderate correlation with LVEDP.
CONCLUSIONS: 2D-STE and RT-3DE can assess the LA function in patients with TVD without myocardial infarction. And LA strain values may provide additional information for predicting increased LVEDP and NT-pro-BNP.

Citation: Yu T, et al. Real-time three-dimensional echocardiography and two-dimensional speckle tracking imaging in the evaluation of left atrial function in patients with triple-vessel coronary artery disease without myocardial infarction. Real-time three-dimensional echocardiography and two-dimensional speckle tracking imaging in the evaluation of left atrial function in patients with triple-vessel coronary artery disease without myocardial infarction. 2022; 50:445-454. doi: 10.1002/jcu.23188

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35261038/
