PMID: 35264876
Title: Clinical Features and CT Imaging Analysis of Hepatic Sinuscase-Syndrome and Budd-Chiari Syndrome.

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: This study aimed to analyze the clinical features and computed tomography (CT) manifestations of hepatic sinusoidal obstruction syndrome (HSOS) induced by Gynura segetum, a Chinese herbal medicine, so as to improve the clinical understanding and diagnosis of the disease.
METHODS: Relevant clinical and laboratory parameters and CT imaging data of 20 patients with HSOS confirmed by liver biopsy were retrospectively analyzed and compared with 16 patients with Budd-Chiari syndrome (BCS).
RESULTS: Levels of alanine aminotransferase, aspartate aminotransferase, alkaline phosphatase, and glutamyl transpeptidase increased significantly (p < 0.05) in HSOS patients compared to the BCS patients, while the albumin level and prothrombin time, which are indicators of liver synthesis function, decreased and prolonged significantly, respectively. All 20 patients with HSOS had manifestations of ascites and heterogeneous hypoattenuation on CT, including 18 cases (90%) with heterogeneous enhancement (characteristic map-like enhancement), 17 (85%) with hepatomegaly, 18 (90%) with gallbladder wall oedema, and 16 (80%) with stenosis of main hepatic veins and characteristic "clover-like" enhancement at the second porta hepatis.
CONCLUSION: Both HSOS and BCS are post-sinusoidal portal hypertension, but have different etiologies and durations. Although they both cause liver congestion, the clinical manifestation of HSOS is acute liver injury. The CT manifestations are characterized by ascites, map-like enhancement and heterogeneous hypoattenuation of the liver parenchyma, and stenosis of the main hepatic veins. BCS is often found in the stage of decompensated liver cirrhosis, resulting in liver shrinkage, splenomegaly, and ascites.

Citation: Dai F, et al. Clinical Features and CT Imaging Analysis of Hepatic Sinuscase-Syndrome and Budd-Chiari Syndrome. Clinical Features and CT Imaging Analysis of Hepatic Sinuscase-Syndrome and Budd-Chiari Syndrome. 2022; 15:2389-2396. doi: 10.2147/IJGM.S348176

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35264876/
