PMID: 35277348
Title: Transbrachial Secondary Vascular Access in Transcatheter Aortic Valve Replacement Procedures: A Single-Centre Retrospective Analysis.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Transfemoral transcatheter aortic valve replacement (TAVR) procedures require secondary vascular access for inserting accessory catheters and performing percutaneous repair of femoral artery injury. Use of the transbrachial approach for secondary vascular access in TAVR procedures has not been reported.
METHODS: This study identified 48 patients at the current institution who had undergone transfemoral TAVR utilising transbrachial secondary vascular access. Efficacy and safety of this strategy for achieving a successful totally percutaneous procedure were examined. Study endpoints were occurrence of vascular complications and bleeding related to transbrachial access, as well as periprocedural and 1-year mortality.
RESULTS: Mean patient age was 80±7 years and Society of Thoracic Surgeons Predicted Risk of Mortality score was 10.6±3.1. Sizes of sheaths inserted into the brachial artery were 6 Fr (85%), 8 Fr (2%), and 9 Fr (13%). Transbrachial access was used for delivering stent grafts to the femoral artery in 13% of the patients, inflation of an occlusive balloon within the iliac artery in 10%, and treatment of iatrogenic femoral artery stenosis in 2%. Successful valve replacement was achieved in all cases. Brachial sheaths were removed by manual compression following administration of protamine sulfate. There were no major access site complications or VARC-3 type ≥2 bleeding related to the brachial vascular access. Brachial artery occlusion occurred in two patients (4%) who underwent surgical vascular repair. Two (2) additional patients developed mild arm ischaemia, which was treated conservatively. Periprocedural mortality was 0% and early mortality was 8%.
CONCLUSIONS: Transbrachial secondary access in TAVR procedures was feasible and enabled percutaneous vascular repair in cases of femoral artery injury.

Citation: Sliman H, et al. Transbrachial Secondary Vascular Access in Transcatheter Aortic Valve Replacement Procedures: A Single-Centre Retrospective Analysis. Transbrachial Secondary Vascular Access in Transcatheter Aortic Valve Replacement Procedures: A Single-Centre Retrospective Analysis. 2022; 31:1023-1028. doi: 10.1016/j.hlc.2022.01.013

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35277348/
