PMID: 35275581
Title: The value of whole-brain CT perfusion imaging combined with dynamic CT angiography in the evaluation of pial collateral circulation with middle cerebral artery occlusion.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Middle cerebral artery (MCA) occlusion is extremely common, especially unilateral artery, which can result in a significant incidence of cerebral infarction.
OBJECTIVE: To assess the value of whole-brain computed tomography perfusion (CTP) imaging combined with dynamic CT angiography (dCTA) in the evaluation of pial collateral circulation in patients with MCA occlusion.
METHODS: Whole-brain CTP and dCTA images were acquired in 58 patients with unilateral MCA occlusion. All patients were divided into three groups according to the American Society of Interventional and Therapeutic Neuroradiology/Society of Interventional Radiology (ASITN/SIR) collateral score (by CTA). The CTP parameters were analysed, including relative cerebral blood flow (rCBF), relative cerebral blood volume (rCBV), relative mean transit time (rMTT), and relative time to peak (rTTP). Patients were followed up with the modified Rankin scale (mRS). All cases in this study were confirmed by DSA.
RESULTS: The CTP parameters of the MCA blood supply area on the affected side of patients with different degrees of stenosis were significantly different from those on the unaffected side. There are significant differences in the CTP parameters and openings of the Willis circle in patients with different degrees of stenosis. Significant differences were found in the number of patients with good prognosis.
CONCLUSIONS: Whole-brain CT perfusion combined with dynamic CTA can structurally and functionally evaluate the establishment of pial collateral circulation and its effect on cerebral hemodynamic changes.

Citation: Ma YC, et al. The value of whole-brain CT perfusion imaging combined with dynamic CT angiography in the evaluation of pial collateral circulation with middle cerebral artery occlusion. The value of whole-brain CT perfusion imaging combined with dynamic CT angiography in the evaluation of pial collateral circulation with middle cerebral artery occlusion. 2022; 30:967-979. doi: 10.3233/THC-213118

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35275581/
