PMID: 35279290
Title: Pattern, behavior, and clinical implications of electrocardiographic changes in patients undergoing repair of anomalous aortic origin of coronary arteries.

Abstract: OBJECTIVES: Surgical repair in anomalous aortic origin of a coronary artery aims at mitigating the risk of sudden cardiac death in a subset of patients. The pattern and behavior of electrocardiogram changes in a large cohort of these patients are lacking. We aim to describe postoperative electrocardiogram changes in this population and its clinical implications on follow-up.
METHODS: All patients aged less than 21 years who underwent surgical repair for anomalous aortic origin of a coronary artery between December 2012 and June 2020 at our institution were considered for inclusion. Electrocardiograms were reviewed at 5 defined time intervals, from preoperative to 90-day follow-up, with attention to significant findings of ST-segment changes, abnormal T waves, and pathologic Q waves. The electrocardiogram changes were analyzed for correlation with surgical reintervention and medium-term outcomes.
RESULTS: Sixty-two patients met inclusion criteria (median age 13.7 years, 61% male). ST-segment changes in the initial postoperative period were seen in 52 patients (84%), all resolving over time. Abnormal T waves were seen in 19 patients (31%), occurred commonly at the predischarge period, and mostly resolved over time. Pathologic Q waves were observed in only 1 patient and associated with reintervention due to coronary artery stenosis. There was no association between postoperative electrocardiogram changes and inducible myocardial ischemia, ventricular dysfunction, or restriction from exercise at follow-up.
CONCLUSIONS: ST-segment changes and T-wave abnormalities are commonly seen in the postoperative period after anomalous aortic origin of a coronary artery repair, tend to resolve over time, and are not associated with adverse medium-term outcomes. Pathologic Q waves were associated with the need for early coronary reintervention.

Citation: Williams SB, et al. Pattern, behavior, and clinical implications of electrocardiographic changes in patients undergoing repair of anomalous aortic origin of coronary arteries. Pattern, behavior, and clinical implications of electrocardiographic changes in patients undergoing repair of anomalous aortic origin of coronary arteries. 2022; 164:742-749. doi: 10.1016/j.jtcvs.2022.01.047

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35279290/
