PMID: 35275859
Title: Long Term Incidence and Outcomes of Sinonasal and Otologic Disease in Patients With Pyriform Aperture Stenosis and Choanal Atresia.

Abstract: Pyriform aperture stenosis (PAS) and choanal atresia (CA) are 2 anatomic causes of newborn nasal obstruction. The goal of management of PAS and CA is to establish a patent nasal airway, often requiring surgery. No previous study has sought to assess the long term sinonasal and otologic disease incidence and outcomes in the PAS and CA population after surgical intervention. The goal of this study was to investigate whether surgical intervention in PAS and CA is correlated with the long-term development of sinonasal disease or otologic disease (either recurrent acute otitis media or chronic otitis media with effusion). Patients with a diagnosis of PAS or CA who underwent surgical intervention were retrospectively identified. Pertinent demographic risk factors, medical and syndromic diagnoses, number of surgical interventions, types of surgical interventions, and presence of sinonasal and otologic diseases were assessed. Fifty-three patients were included in the study: 8 patients with PAS and 45 with CA. The average follow-up time was 2.9 years. No PAS patients developed otologic or sino-nasal disease. Four of 45 patients with CA developed recurrent acute sinusitis (3 non-syndromic and 1 syndromic) and 19 of 45 patients developed otologic disease (9 non-syndromic and 10 syndromic). Coloboma, Heart, Choanal Atresia, Growth Retardation, Genitourinary, Ear Syndrome and unilateral CA correlated significantly with the subsequent development of otologic disease; however, the number of surgeries did not. This study suggests that surgery for PAS and CA do not increase the risk of long-term development of sinonasal or otologic disease.

Citation: Godse NR, et al. Long Term Incidence and Outcomes of Sinonasal and Otologic Disease in Patients With Pyriform Aperture Stenosis and Choanal Atresia. Long Term Incidence and Outcomes of Sinonasal and Otologic Disease in Patients With Pyriform Aperture Stenosis and Choanal Atresia. 2022; 33:1409-1412. doi: 10.1097/SCS.0000000000008604

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35275859/
