PMID: 35277732
Title: Airways and craniofacial assessment in children affected by achondroplasia with and without sleep-disordered breathing: quantitative magnetic resonance study.

Abstract: PURPOSE: To identify MRI-based quantitative craniofacial variables linked to airways narrowing and obstructive sleep apnea (OSA) development in children with achondroplasia.
METHODS: We evaluated skull base and midface MRI in two cohorts of children affected by achondroplasia, with (group 1) or without OSA (group 2). 3DFSPGR-T1weighted images were used to assess airways volume (nasopharynx, oropharynx, and laryngopharynx), jugular foramina (JF) and hypoglossal foramina (HF) areas, foramen magnum area, cervical cord area, and maxillary retrusion (SNA angle).
RESULTS: Nineteen out of 27 children with achondroplasia exhibited different degrees of obstructive respiratory impairment (n.4 mild, n.8 moderate, n.7 severe), while 8 children did not show OSA. Each group was compared with age-matched controls without neuroimaging abnormalities. Both groups showed reduced nasopharynx volume, JF areas, and SNA angle, while group 1 showed also reduced oropharynx volume, ratio of FM/cervical cord areas, and HF areas (p < 0.05). A positive correlation between nasopharynx volume and SNA angle was found in both groups, while a positive correlation among upper airways volume, JF and HF areas was found only in group 1. No correlation between upper airways volume and OSA severity was found.
CONCLUSION: In children with achondroplasia, multifaced craniofacial abnormalities contribute to airways volume reduction predisposing to sleep disordered breathing. MRI-based quantitative assessment allows the appraisal of craniofacial variables linked to the development of sleep-disordered breathing such as FM stenosis, jugular and hypoglossal foramina stenosis, and retruded maxillary position and may be a valuable tool for clinical surveillance.

Citation: Calandrelli R, et al. Airways and craniofacial assessment in children affected by achondroplasia with and without sleep-disordered breathing: quantitative magnetic resonance study. Airways and craniofacial assessment in children affected by achondroplasia with and without sleep-disordered breathing: quantitative magnetic resonance study. 2022; 38:1147-1154. doi: 10.1007/s00381-022-05484-w

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35277732/
