PMID: 35284562
Title: Effect of transverse sinus variation on the clinical outcomes of atherosclerotic anterior circulation infarction.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Hypoplasia of the transverse sinus (TS) is a common anatomical variation. The aim of this study was to investigate the effects of TS variation (i.e., TS hypoplasia) and no variation (i.e., TS symmetry) and their subgroups on the clinical outcomes of patients with atherosclerotic anterior circulation cerebral infarction (CI).
METHODS: A total of 75 patients were included in the study and were divided into the no TS variation group and the TS variation group. The TS variation group was further divided into the following subgroups: the TS variation with ipsilateral CI group and the TS variation with contralateral CI group. We retrospectively analyzed the correlations of the endpoint events of patients with large atherosclerotic anterior circulation infarction and TS no variant, and subgroups of TS variants.
RESULTS: We found that the diameter of the ipsilateral IJV in patients with TS variants were significantly smaller than those without TS variants, which was statistically significant (P<0.05). The differences in primary endpoint events, secondary endpoint events, and responsible vessel stenosis were not statistically significant when comparing the TS variant and no TS variant groups, and the TS variant subgroup (P>0.05). We found statistically significant differences in the National Institute of Health stroke scale (NIHSS) and Modified Rankin Scale (mRS) scores after 90 days of CI between the total anterior circulation infarct (TACI) TS variant group, the ipsilateral CI TS variant group, and the partial anterior circulation infarct (PACI) TS hypoplasia group and the ipsilateral CI TS variant group (P<0.05). There was a statistically significant difference (P<0.05) between the TS variant group with TACI, the TS variant group with ipsilateral CI, and the TS no variant group and the TS variant with contralateral CI group when comparing patients' mRS scores after 90 days of CI.
CONCLUSIONS: The diameter of the internal jugular vein (IJV) ipsilateral to the TS variant was significantly smaller than that of the TS no variant. Patients with TACI in the TS variant group and one of its subgroups (the TS variant with ipsilateral CI group) had more severe clinical symptoms and a worse prognosis than patients in the same group with PACI.

Citation: Wu L, et al. Effect of transverse sinus variation on the clinical outcomes of atherosclerotic anterior circulation infarction. Effect of transverse sinus variation on the clinical outcomes of atherosclerotic anterior circulation infarction. 2022; 10:135. doi: 10.21037/atm-22-197

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35284562/
