PMID: 35309580
Title: Impact of Upper Airway Characteristics on Disease Severity and CPAP Therapy in Chinese Patients With OSA: An Observational Retrospective Study.

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: The characteristics of the upper airway (UA) are important for the evaluation and treatment of obstructive sleep apnea (OSA). This study aimed to investigate the association of UA characteristics with OSA severity, titration pressure, and initiation of and 3-month compliance with continuous positive airway pressure (CPAP).
METHODS: This retrospective study included consecutive patients examined using a semi-quantitative UA evaluation system (combination with physical examination and awake endoscopy) during 2008-2018 at the Department of Respiratory and Critical Care Medicine, Peking University First Hospital. First, the differences in UA characteristics were compared between patients with simple snorers and mild OSA and those with moderate-to-severe OSA. Then, the effect of UA characteristics on the initiation to CPAP therapy and 3-month adherence to CPAP was conducted.
RESULTS: Overall, 1,002 patients were included, including 276 simple snorers and patients in the mild OSA group [apnea-hypopnea index (AHI) &lt;15] and 726 patients in the moderate-to-severe OSA group (AHI ≥15). Tongue base hypertrophy, tonsillar hypertrophy, mandibular recession, neck circumstance, and body mass index (BMI) were independent risk factors for moderate-to-severe OSA. Among those patients, 119 patients underwent CPAP titration in the sleep lab. The CPAP pressures in patients with thick and long uvulas, tonsillar hypertrophy, lateral pharyngeal wall stenosis, and tongue hypertrophy were higher than those of the control group (P &lt; 0.05, respectively). The logistic regression analysis showed that nasal turbinate hypertrophy, mandibular retrusion, and positive Müller maneuver in the retropalate and retroglottal regions were independent predictors for the initiation of home CPAP treatment.
CONCLUSION: Multisite narrowing and function collapse of the UA are important factors affecting OSA severity, CPAP titration pressure, and the initiation of home CPAP therapy. Clinical evaluation with awake endoscopy is a safe and effective way for the assessment of patients with OSA in internal medicine.

Citation: Zhang C, et al. Impact of Upper Airway Characteristics on Disease Severity and CPAP Therapy in Chinese Patients With OSA: An Observational Retrospective Study. Impact of Upper Airway Characteristics on Disease Severity and CPAP Therapy in Chinese Patients With OSA: An Observational Retrospective Study. 2022; 13:767336. doi: 10.3389/fneur.2022.767336

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35309580/
