PMID: 35306881
Title: Association between carotid revascularization for asymptomatic stenosis and cognitive functions.

Abstract: Asymptomatic carotid stenosis (ACS) can cause cognitive dysfunction, related to cerebral hypoperfusion and microemboli. These mechanisms could be treated by carotid revascularization, but the impact of carotid angioplasty stenting (CAS) or carotid endarterectomy (CEA) on cognitive functions remains unclear. The aim of this systematic review was to realize a report on the actual state of results about asymptomatic carotid stenosis revascularization and cognitive function. We performed a systematic literature review to analyze all studies assessing the impact of asymptomatic carotid stenosis revascularizations on cognitive functions. We reviewed all publications published in Medline database and Cochrane between January 2010 and January 2020 including subjects with a cognitive evaluation and receiving carotid revascularization for asymptomatic stenosis. We identified 567 records for review, and finally we included in the systematic review 20 studies about ACS revascularization and cognitive functions. Only observational studies analyzed the impact of CEA and CAS on cognitive functions. Thus, too heterogeneous data associated to the lack of randomized controlled trials with an evaluation of optimal medical treatment did not enable to affirm the interest of the revascularization management of ACS in cognitive domain. There was a lack of standardization and finally studies were too heterogeneous to conclude on the impact of carotid revascularization on cognitive functions. There is an urgent need to harmonize research in this domain in order to prevent and treat cognitive dysfunction related to ACS, especially in our society with an aging population.

Citation: Foret T, et al. Association between carotid revascularization for asymptomatic stenosis and cognitive functions. Association between carotid revascularization for asymptomatic stenosis and cognitive functions. 2022; 51:138-149. doi: 10.1024/0301-1526/a000996

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35306881/
