PMID: 35307027
Title: Integrated head and neck imaging of symptomatic patients with stroke using simultaneous non-contrast cardiovascular magnetic resonance angiography and intraplaque hemorrhage imaging as compared with digital subtraction angiography.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Both stenosis rate and intraplaque hemorrhage (IPH) are important predictors of stroke risk. Simultaneous non-contrast angiography and intraplaque hemorrhage (SNAP) cardiovascular magnetic resonance (CMR) imaging can detect both stenosis rate and IPH. We aimed to evaluate consistency between SNAP and digital subtraction angiography (DSA) to assess symptomatic patients with stroke and explore the performance of SNAP to identify IPH and the clinical factors associated with IPH.
METHODS: Eighty-one symptomatic patients with stroke, admitted to Wuhan Union Hospital who underwent CMR high-resolution vessel wall imaging (HR-VWI) and SNAP, were retrospectively identified. For patients who received interventional therapy, the imaging functions of SNAP and HR-VWI were compared with DSA. The diameters of the intracranial and carotid vessels were measured, and stenotic vessels were identified. The consistency of SNAP and HR-VWI in identifying IPH was also examined, and the correlations between IPH and clinical factors were analyzed.
RESULTS: SNAP was more consistent with DSA than HR-VWI in measuring vascular stenosis (intraclass correlation coefficient [ICC]<sub>SNAP-DSA</sub> = 0.917, ICC <sub>HR-VWI-DSA</sub> = 0.878). Regarding the diameter measurements of each intracranial and carotid vessel segment, SNAP was superior or similar to HR-VWI, and both were consistent with DSA in the measurement of major intracranial vascular segments. HR-VWI and SNAP exhibited acceptable agreement in identifying IPH (Kappa = 0.839, 95% confidence interval [CI]: 0.704-0.974). Patients who underwent interventional therapy had a higher plaque burden (P &lt; 0.001). Patients with IPH had lower levels of high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL) (P = 0.038) and higher levels of blood glucose (P = 0.007) and cystatin C (P = 0.040).
CONCLUSIONS: CMR SNAP is consistent with DSA in measuring vessel diameters and identifying atherosclerosis stenosis in each intracranial and carotid vessel segment. SNAP is also a potential alternative to HR-VWI in identifying stenosis and IPH.

Citation: Jia Y, et al. Integrated head and neck imaging of symptomatic patients with stroke using simultaneous non-contrast cardiovascular magnetic resonance angiography and intraplaque hemorrhage imaging as compared with digital subtraction angiography. Integrated head and neck imaging of symptomatic patients with stroke using simultaneous non-contrast cardiovascular magnetic resonance angiography and intraplaque hemorrhage imaging as compared with digital subtraction angiography. 2022; 24:19. doi: 10.1186/s12968-022-00849-1

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35307027/
