PMID: 35307196
Title: Thoracoscopic repair for esophageal pulmonary fistula after esophageal atresia repair.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Esophageal pulmonary fistula is a special type of acquired tracheoesophageal fistula that occurs after esophageal atresia/tracheoesophageal fistula repair. Thoracotomy is the surgical repair method currently in use, but postoperative outcomes are unclear. Therefore, we aimed to explore the preliminary safety, effectiveness, and feasibility of thoracoscopic surgical repair of esophageal pulmonary fistula.
METHODS: We retrospectively collected data from all patients with esophageal atresia/tracheoesophageal fistula at Beijing Children's Hospital from January 2017 to October 2021, and the clinical characteristics of patients with esophageal pulmonary fistula were analyzed. Clinical information was recorded, and follow-up was performed.
RESULTS: Seven patients (five boys and two girls) were diagnosed as esophageal pulmonary fistula. All patients underwent multiple esophageal surgeries and had esophageal strictures before surgical repair. Clinical manifestations included cough, expectoration, and recurrent pneumonia. Esophagography indicated the location of the fistula with a 100% positive rate, while the positive rate of flexible bronchoscopy and chest computed tomography was 57% (4/7) and 43% (3/7), respectively. Surgical repair was achieved using thoracoscopy with an average operation time of 172 min. All patients developed esophageal strictures, four of which had refractory esophageal strictures and underwent esophageal dilations ranged from 5 to 56 times before this surgery, but anastomotic leakage or acquired esophageal pulmonary fistulas were absent post-surgery. After a median follow-up of 22 months, all patients survived, and the symptoms were well controlled.
CONCLUSIONS: Esophageal pulmonary fistula is a rare complication of atresia/tracheoesophageal fistula repair. Thoracoscopic surgery is still possible even after previous multiple surgeries in the chest with significant complications and satisfactory results can be achieved in the short term.
LEVEL OF EVIDENCE: Level III.

Citation: Zhao J, et al. Thoracoscopic repair for esophageal pulmonary fistula after esophageal atresia repair. Thoracoscopic repair for esophageal pulmonary fistula after esophageal atresia repair. 2022; 57:538-542. doi: 10.1016/j.jpedsurg.2022.02.013

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35307196/
