PMID: 35310709
Title: Endoscopic resection of esophageal squamous cell carcinoma: Current indications and treatment outcomes.

Abstract: Endoscopic resection (ER) is an alternate minimally invasive treatment for superficial esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (SESCC). We aimed to review the clinical indications and treatment outcomes of ER for SESCC. Endoscopic mucosal resection is relatively easy and efficient for SESCC ≤ 15 mm. In contrast, endoscopic submucosal dissection (ESD) is recommended to achieve en bloc resection for lesions >15 mm, in view of the accurate pathological evaluation. The Japan Gastroenterological Endoscopy Society guidelines recommend ER for non-circumferential cT1a-EP/LPM (epithelium/lamina propria mucosae), cT1a-MM/T1b-SM1 (muscularis mucosa/superficial submucosa ≤ 200μm) SESCC, and whole-circumferential T1a-EP/LPM SESCC ≤ 50 mm (upon implementing preventive measures for stenosis), considering the risk-benefit balance of ER. It defines pT1a-EP/LPM without lymphovascular invasion as a curative endoscopic resection. The guidelines recommend additional esophagectomy or chemoradiotherapy for pT1b SESCC or any SESCC, with lymphovascular invasion. However, there is no recommendation for or against the administration of additional treatments for pT1a-MM without lymphovascular invasion, owing to limited evidence. Researchers have reported on high en bloc and R0 resection rates of ESD, and a randomized controlled trial demonstrated that clip-line traction-assisted ESD could significantly reduce the ESD procedural time. Moreover, steroid treatment has been developed to prevent post-ESD esophageal strictures. There have been reports on favorable long-term outcomes of ESD. However, most of them are retrospective studies. Further robust data in prospective trials are warranted to achieve a definitive evidence of ESD, which will be beneficial to patients with SESCC.

Citation: Abe S, et al. Endoscopic resection of esophageal squamous cell carcinoma: Current indications and treatment outcomes. Endoscopic resection of esophageal squamous cell carcinoma: Current indications and treatment outcomes. 2022; 2:e45. doi: 10.1002/deo2.45

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35310709/
