PMID: 35318480
Title: Visions of TAVR Future: Development and Optimization of a Second Generation Novel Polymeric TAVR.

Abstract: Tissue-based transcatheter aortic valve (AV) replacement (TAVR) devices have been a breakthrough approach for treating aortic valve stenosis. However, with the expansion of TAVR to younger and lower risk patients, issues of long-term durability and thrombosis persist. Recent advances in polymeric valve technology facilitate designing more durable valves with minimal in vivo adverse reactions. We introduce our second-generation polymeric transcatheter aortic valve (TAV) device, designed and optimized to address these issues. We present the optimization process of the device, wherein each aspect of device deployment and functionality was optimized for performance, including unique considerations of polymeric technologies for reducing the volume of the polymer material for lower crimped delivery profiles. The stent frame was optimized to generate larger radial forces with lower material volumes, securing robust deployment and anchoring. The leaflet shape, combined with varying leaflets thickness, was optimized for reducing the flexural cyclic stresses and the valve's hydrodynamics. Our first-generation polymeric device already demonstrated that its hydrodynamic performance meets and exceeds tissue devices for both ISO standard and patient-specific in vitro scenarios. The valve already reached 900 × 106 cycles of accelerated durability testing, equivalent to over 20 years in a patient. The optimization framework and technology led to the second generation of polymeric TAV design- currently undergoing in vitro hydrodynamic testing and following in vivo animal trials. As TAVR use is rapidly expanding, our rigorous bio-engineering optimization methodology and advanced polymer technology serve to establish polymeric TAV technology as a viable alternative to the challenges facing existing tissue-based TAV technology.

Citation: Kovarovic B, et al. Visions of TAVR Future: Development and Optimization of a Second Generation Novel Polymeric TAVR. Visions of TAVR Future: Development and Optimization of a Second Generation Novel Polymeric TAVR. 2022; 144:(unknown pages). doi: 10.1115/1.4054149

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35318480/
