PMID: 35313915
Title: Hybrid single staged treatment of coronary arteries and aorto-iliac obstruction disease: a case report.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: If the internal thoracic artery is a collateral circulation to the lower extremities, careful consideration should be given to its use when coronary artery bypass grafting is required. We report a case of CABG with bilateral common iliac artery lesions and collateral circulation from the bilateral ITAs on the peripheral side.
CASE PRESENTATION: A 58-year-old man was admitted to our department with claudication and dyspnea upon exertion. He was diagnosed with right common iliac artery obstruction and 90% stenosis of the left common iliac artery. Coronary angiography revealed three-vessel disease with 50% stenosis of the left main trunk. The bilateral ITA showed a rich collateral flow to the lower extremities. Hybrid single staged repair with percutaneous transluminal angioplasty for the left iliac lesion was performed, followed by off-pump coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG) and femoro-femoral crossover bypass. Postoperative angiography revealed that all grafts were patent. The postoperative course was uneventful, except that the patient's creatinine kinase level increased to 7177 U/L on postoperative day 1.
CONCLUSION: To treat coronary artery disease with peripheral artery disease, especially those with iliac artery occlusion lesions with collateral circulation from the ITA, not only graft selection but also the treatment strategies for peripheral lesions are considered extremely important. Hybrid single staged coronary and lower limb artery revascularization could be safely achieved by multidisciplinary team strategies.

Citation: Kasama K, et al. Hybrid single staged treatment of coronary arteries and aorto-iliac obstruction disease: a case report. Hybrid single staged treatment of coronary arteries and aorto-iliac obstruction disease: a case report. 2022; 17:48. doi: 10.1186/s13019-022-01797-8

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35313915/
