PMID: 35317744
Title: Endoscopic recanalization for the complete closure of long-gap esophageal atresia after reconstruction surgery.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Reconstruction surgery-associated stricture frequently occurs in patients with long-gap esophageal atresia (LGEA). While several endoscopic dilatation methods have been applied and would be desirable, endoscopic recanalization is very difficult in cases with complete esophageal closure. Surgical treatment has been performed for a severe stricture, which causes extensive damage to the infant. No reports have described successful endoscopic recanalization for complete closure due to scarring after surgery for LGEA. We herein report the case of successful endoscopic recanalization by single endoscopist in an LGEA patient with complete closure after reconstruction surgery.
CASE PRESENTATION: A seven-month-old boy with LGEA who received reconstruction surgery and gastrostomy immediately after birth presented to our unit due to vomiting and malnutrition. Contrast radiography and peroral endoscopy detected complete closure of the esophagus at the anastomotic site. After confirming the length of stricture as several millimeters, we punctured the center of the lumen with a 25-G puncture needle under fluoroscopy. An endoscope was then inserted via the gastrostomy and the puncture hole was detected at the center of the lumen. After passing the guidewire, endoscopic balloon dilation was performed three times, and the hole was sufficiently dilatated. Oral ingestion was feasible, and his nutritional condition was improved.
CONCLUSIONS: To our knowledge, this is the first report to propose a less invasive endoscopic approach to recanalize a site of complete esophageal closure in a LGEA patient after reconstruction surgery by single endoscopist. Our endoscopic procedure using an ultrathin endoscope and puncture needle may be a therapeutic option for the treatment of patients with complete esophageal closure in a LGEA patient after reconstruction surgery.

Citation: Kashima S, et al. Endoscopic recanalization for the complete closure of long-gap esophageal atresia after reconstruction surgery. Endoscopic recanalization for the complete closure of long-gap esophageal atresia after reconstruction surgery. 2022; 22:132. doi: 10.1186/s12876-022-02207-y

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35317744/
