PMID: 35311828
Title: A Model of Reverse Vascular Remodeling in Pulmonary Hypertension Due to Left Heart Disease by Aortic Debanding in Rats.

Abstract: Pulmonary hypertension due to left heart disease (PH-LHD) is the most common form of PH, yet its pathophysiology is poorly characterized than pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH). As a result, approved therapeutic interventions for the treatment or prevention of PH-LHD are missing. Medications used to treat PH in PAH patients are not recommended for treatment of PH-LHD, as reduced pulmonary vascular resistance (PVR) and increased pulmonary blood flow in the presence of increased left-sided filling pressures may cause left heart decompensation and pulmonary edema. New strategies need to be developed to reverse PH in LHD patients. In contrast to PAH, PH-LHD develops due to increased mechanical load caused by congestion of blood into the lung circulation during left heart failure. Clinically, mechanical unloading of the left ventricle (LV) by aortic valve replacement in aortic stenosis patients or by implantation of LV assist devices in end-stage heart failure patients normalizes not only pulmonary arterial and right ventricular (RV) pressures but also PVR, thus providing indirect evidence for reverse remodeling in the pulmonary vasculature. Using an established rat model of PH-LHD due to left heart failure triggered by pressure overload with subsequent development of PH, a model is developed to study the molecular and cellular mechanisms of this physiological reverse remodeling process. Specifically, an aortic debanding surgery was performed, which resulted in reverse remodeling of the LV myocardium and its unloading. In parallel, complete normalization of RV systolic pressure and significant but incomplete reversal of RV hypertrophy was detectable. This model may present a valuable tool to study the mechanisms of physiological reverse remodeling in the pulmonary circulation and the RV, aiming to develop therapeutic strategies for treating PH-LHD and other forms of PH.

Citation: Sang P, et al. A Model of Reverse Vascular Remodeling in Pulmonary Hypertension Due to Left Heart Disease by Aortic Debanding in Rats. A Model of Reverse Vascular Remodeling in Pulmonary Hypertension Due to Left Heart Disease by Aortic Debanding in Rats. 2022; (unknown volume):(unknown pages). doi: 10.3791/63502

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35311828/
