PMID: 35325947
Title: [Using the external auditory canal skin graft of the healthy side to treat unilateral congenital aural atresia: preliminary results of clinical research].

Abstract: Objective: To investigate whether the contralateral normal external auditory canal (EAC) skin graft can maintain the ear canal health after EAC reconstruction in unilateral congenital aural atresia (CAA) cases. Methods: A Zelen design randomized controlled study was used to collect unilateral CAA patients for EAC reconstruction prospectively (clinical trial registration number: ChiCTR2000032103). The patients were randomly divided into the control group and the trial group. The trial group used the contralateral normal EAC skin graft group (transplant part of the contralateral normal EAC skin to repair the atresia side for unilateral CAA patients), the control group all used scalp blade thick skin. We observed the EAC health and hearing results of the two groups after EAC reconstruction. Results: A total of 13 cases were enrolled from July 2020 to August 2021. There were eight patients in the trial group, including six males and two females, with an average age of 22.3 years (14-36 years). There were two patients with CAA on the left and six patients on the right. The average follow-up time was 8.8 months (4-14 months). There were five patients in the control group, all cases were male with an average age of 16.2 years (12-20 years). There were four patients with CAA on the left and one patient on the right. The average follow-up time was 7.0 months (2-14 months). In the trial group, eight cases of reconstructed EAC epithelium were healthy, one patient had cicatricial stenosis of EAC opening and lateralization of the tympanic membrane. The other patient had cicatricial stenosis of reconstructed EAC, this case also had scar hyperplasia of the contralateral EAC opening but recovered after soft packing and triamcinolone acetonide injection treatment. The healthy side EAC of the rest trial group had no scarring stenosis or local bone hyperplasia during long-term follow-up. In the control group, one patient was lost to follow-up and the other four patients had dry ears of reconstructed EAC, but easily to form crusts and needed to be cleaned repeatedly, one patient had lateralization of the tympanic membrane, the EAC epithelium was not healthy for long-term follow-up. The incidence of complications related to EAC reconstruction was lower than previous studies (χ²=5.55, P=0.018), and the average postoperative Air-Bone Gap increased (18.8±10.0)dB. Conclusion: By optimizing the EAC reconstruction technology, the health of the reconstructed EAC is improved compared with the previous study. After active intervention and treatment, there should be no scarring stenosis or local bone hyperplasia on the contralateral side EAC.

Citation: Li CL, et al. [Using the external auditory canal skin graft of the healthy side to treat unilateral congenital aural atresia: preliminary results of clinical research]. [Using the external auditory canal skin graft of the healthy side to treat unilateral congenital aural atresia: preliminary results of clinical research]. 2022; 57:338-344. doi: 10.3760/cma.j.cn115330-20211117-00744

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35325947/
