PMID: 35321767
Title: The transcatheter aortic valve implantation: an assessment of the generalizability of the economic evidences following a systematic review.

Abstract: OBJECTIVES: Scientific literature debates on the economic affordability of transcatheter aortic valve implantation (TAVI) in order to give a useful support to decision makers aiming at establishing a reimbursement scheme for TAVI. For this reason, it is important to assess the quality and the generalizability of the existing economic evidences.
METHODS: The first step was to run a literature search according to a predefined population, intervention, comparator, and outcome on the cost and effectiveness of the TAVI procedure in comparison to medical therapy and traditional surgery. Second, a manual search was carried out on the Web sites of the main HTA agencies. Third, the checklist developed by Augustovski et al. was applied in order to assess the quality and the generalizability of the articles resulting from the selection process.
RESULTS: Overall, 106 articles were obtained. Of these, sixty-five articles were excluded since the title was not consistent with the objective. Further selection took place after abstract and full-text reading. In the end, thirty-one documents were included for the review. According to the checklist, none of the articles was considered generalizable and only one was considered transferable which compares the TAVI procedure with Medical Management in inoperable patients.
CONCLUSIONS: Despite the overall quality of the selected studies was considered good, there is still a lack of evidence on whether evidences generated in different contexts can be considered generalizable. Further research on resource consumption and preferences is needed in order to provide decision makers with more robust evidences.

Citation: Ruggeri M, et al. The transcatheter aortic valve implantation: an assessment of the generalizability of the economic evidences following a systematic review. The transcatheter aortic valve implantation: an assessment of the generalizability of the economic evidences following a systematic review. 2022; 38:e27. doi: 10.1017/S0266462321001720

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35321767/
