PMID: 35329354
Title: Surgical Training on Ex Vivo Ovine Model in Otolaryngology Head and Neck Surgery: A Comprehensive Review.

Abstract: Background: Nowadays, head and neck surgical approaches need an increased level of anatomical knowledge and practical skills; therefore, the related learning curve is both flat and long. On such procedures, surgeons must decrease operating time as much as possible to reduce the time of general anesthesia and related stress factors for patients. Consequently, little time can be dedicated for training skills of students and young residents in the operating theater. Fresh human cadavers offer the most obvious surrogate for living patients, but they have several limitations, such as cost, availability, and local regulations. Recently, the feasibility of using ex vivo animal models, in particular ovine ones, have been considered as high-fidelity alternatives to cadaveric specimens. Methods: This comprehensive review explores all of head and neck otolaryngology applications with this sample. We analyzed studies about ear surgery, orbital procedures, parotid gland and facial nerve reanimation, open laryngeal and tracheal surgery, microlaryngoscopy procedures, laryngotracheal stenosis treatment, and diagnostic/operative pediatric endoscopy. For each different procedure, we underline the main applications, similarities, and limitations to human procedures so as to improve the knowledge of this model as a useful tool for surgical training. Results: An ovine model is easily available and relatively inexpensive, it has no limitations associated with religious or animal ethical issues, and it is reliable for head and neck surgery due to similar consistencies tissues and neurovascular structures with respect to humans. However, some other issues should be considered, such as differences about some anatomical features, the risk of zoonotic diseases, and the absence of bleeding during training. Conclusion: This comprehensive review highlights the potentials of an ex vivo ovine model and aims to stimulate the scientific and academic community to further develop it for other applications in surgical education.

Citation: Fermi M, et al. Surgical Training on Ex Vivo Ovine Model in Otolaryngology Head and Neck Surgery: A Comprehensive Review. Surgical Training on Ex Vivo Ovine Model in Otolaryngology Head and Neck Surgery: A Comprehensive Review. 2022; 19:(unknown pages). doi: 10.3390/ijerph19063657

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35329354/
