PMID: 35321712
Title: A pilot study of endoscope-assisted MITLIF with fluoroscopy-guided technique: intraoperative objective and subjective evaluation of disc space preparation.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Adequate discectomy and endplate preparation are extremely crucial steps for spinal interbody fusion. Minimally invasive transforaminal lumbar interbody fusion MITLIF technique is safe and effective. However, concerns exist regarding sufficient disc space preparation from unilateral access. The purpose of this study, was to demonstrate our preliminary experience in objective and subjective evaluation of disc space preparation intraoperatively during endoscope-assisted MITLIF with fluoroscopy-guided, describing some of its possible advantages, and analyzing its safety and feasibility.
METHODS: From March 2018 to July 2019, three patients with degenerative spinal stenosis with radiculopathy and instability underwent endoscope-assisted MITLIF with fluoroscopy-guided. Patients' demographic data, clinical parameters, subsidence, and fusion were collected.
RESULTS: Patients were successfully treated by endoscope-assisted MITLIF with fluoroscopy-guided at single-level or two-level. Symptoms improved postoperatively in all patients, and no complications occurred during follow-up. No cage subsidence was observed. At 6-month postoperatively, there was bony fusion observed on computed tomography in two patients.
CONCLUSION: Endoscope-assisted MITLIF with fluoroscopy-guided is a safe and feasible technique to improve visualization during discectomy and endplate preparation objectively and subjectively, possibly increasing fusion rate and early time to fusion.

Citation: Lin GX, et al. A pilot study of endoscope-assisted MITLIF with fluoroscopy-guided technique: intraoperative objective and subjective evaluation of disc space preparation. A pilot study of endoscope-assisted MITLIF with fluoroscopy-guided technique: intraoperative objective and subjective evaluation of disc space preparation. 2022; 22:109. doi: 10.1186/s12893-022-01559-2

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35321712/
