PMID: 35334369
Title: Intraperitoneal perforation through lymph node metastases in a patient with esophageal squamous cell carcinoma during intensive chemotherapy: A case report with literature review.

Abstract: INTRODUCTION: Esophageal fistula after treatment is a critical and fatal complication of esophageal cancer. A fistula forming from lower thoracic esophageal cancer to the peritoneum through lymph node metastases following chemotherapy has not been reported. We report a case of peritonitis due to lymph node perforation through the tumor ulcer after induction of biweekly docetaxel, cisplatin, and 5FU combined chemotherapy (Bi-DCF) for advanced esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (ESCC).
PRESENTATION OF CASE: A 48-year-old woman was referred to us with a diagnosis of lower thoracic ESCC and thoracoabdominal aortic aneurysm. Esophagogastroduodenoscopy showed a circumferential type 3 tumor with stenosis in the lower thoracic esophagus. Contrast-enhanced computed tomography (CT) showed a thoracoabdominal aortic aneurysm and wall thickening of the lower thoracic esophagus that was suspicious of esophageal cancer. Lymph node metastases dumpling from around the tumor to abdominal cavity were also observed. The initial diagnosis was ESCC T3 N3 M1 (para-aortic lymph nodes and liver) Stage IVB. She was started on Bi-DCF (docetaxel 35 mg/m2 days 1/15, cisplatin 40 mg/m2 days 1/15, 5FU 400 mg/m2 days 1-5, 15-19) as the first-line regimen. The third day after starting chemotherapy, she felt strong abdominal pain, and internal necrosis of lymph nodes around the primary lesion and free air in the abdominal cavity were found. Peritonitis was diagnosed due to a fistula formed from the lower thoracic ESCC to the peritoneum through lymph node metastases. She underwent emergency laparoscopic drainage, omental filling, and jejunostomy. Postoperatively, her general condition and inflammatory findings improved within 10 days, and she could continue intensive chemotherapy as scheduled.
DISCUSSION: Because of the risk of perforation and fistula in regimens that are expected to cause tumor shrinkage, careful observation may be required after starting chemotherapy.
CONCLUSION: We report the first case of peritonitis caused by perforation through lymph node metastasis of thoracic esophageal cancer.

Citation: Suetsugu T, et al. Intraperitoneal perforation through lymph node metastases in a patient with esophageal squamous cell carcinoma during intensive chemotherapy: A case report with literature review. Intraperitoneal perforation through lymph node metastases in a patient with esophageal squamous cell carcinoma during intensive chemotherapy: A case report with literature review. 2022; 93:106944. doi: 10.1016/j.ijscr.2022.106944

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35334369/
