PMID: 35333318
Title: Impact of different valve-in-valve positions on the hydrodynamic performance of the newest-generation self-expanding transcatheter heart valve.

Abstract: OBJECTIVES: Transcatheter aortic valve-in-valve (ViV) procedures are increasingly performed for the treatment of degenerated surgical aortic valves with a high risk for a redo operation. For an optimal functional result, precise positioning of the transcatheter heart valve (THV) inside the SHV is crucial. The aim of this study was to systematically investigate the impact of implantation depth on the functional result after a ViV procedure in a standardized in vitro setting.
METHODS: A THV 23 mm (Evolut PRO) and 3 SHV 21 mm (Perimount Magna Ease, Trifecta and Hancock II) were used for hydrodynamic testing with a constant heartbeat 64/min and a range of 55-105 ml of stroke volume in 5 different positions of the THV. The following parameters were analysed: mean pressure gradient (MPG), effective orifice area (EOA), geometric orifice area, minimal internal diameter and pin-wheeling index.
RESULTS: MPG and EOA differed significantly regarding the position of the THV in the same SHV. The highest EOA and the lowest MPG were recorded for Evolut PRO with significance for both parameters in Hancock II at 4 vs 5 mm (P &lt; 0.001), in Magna Ease at 2 mm (vs 3 mm and vs 6 mm, P &lt; 0.001) and in Trifecta at 4 mm (vs 5 and 6 mm, P &lt; 0.001). Leaflet coadaptation, minimal internal diameter and maximal geometric orifice area of the same TAV differ regarding the position of the TAV.
CONCLUSIONS: The optimal position for hydrodynamic performance of the THV as ViV differs among specific SHV models. The findings may be useful for planning a ViV procedure using the Evolut PRO THV.

Citation: Sadat N, et al. Impact of different valve-in-valve positions on the hydrodynamic performance of the newest-generation self-expanding transcatheter heart valve. Impact of different valve-in-valve positions on the hydrodynamic performance of the newest-generation self-expanding transcatheter heart valve. 2022; 62:(unknown pages). doi: 10.1093/ejcts/ezac158

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35333318/
