PMID: 35330044
Title: COVID-19 Patients Presenting with Post-Intubation Upper Airway Complications: A Parallel Epidemic?

Abstract: During the current pandemic, we witnessed a rise of post-intubation tracheal stenosis (PITS) in patients intubated due to COVID-19. We prospectively analyzed data from patients referred to our institution during the last 18 months for severe symptomatic post-intubation upper airway complications. Interdisciplinary bronchoscopic and/or surgical management was offered. Twenty-three patients with PITS and/or tracheoesophageal fistulae were included. They had undergone 31.85 (±22.7) days of ICU hospitalization and 17.35 (±7.4) days of intubation. Tracheal stenoses were mostly complex, located in the subglottic or mid-tracheal area. A total of 83% of patients had fracture and distortion of the tracheal wall. Fifteen patients were initially treated with rigid bronchoscopic modalities and/or stent placement and eight patients with tracheal resection-anastomosis. Post-treatment relapse in two of the bronchoscopically treated patients required surgery, while two of the surgically treated patients required rigid bronchoscopy and stent placement. Transient, non-life-threatening post-treatment complications developed in 60% of patients and were all managed successfully. The histopathology of the resected tracheal specimens didn't reveal specific alterations in comparison to pre-COVID-era PITS cases. Prolonged intubation, pronation maneuvers, oversized tubes or cuffs, and patient- or disease-specific factors may be pathogenically implicated. An increase of post-COVID PITS is anticipated. Careful prevention, early detection and effective management of these iatrogenic complications are warranted.

Citation: Stratakos G, et al. COVID-19 Patients Presenting with Post-Intubation Upper Airway Complications: A Parallel Epidemic?. COVID-19 Patients Presenting with Post-Intubation Upper Airway Complications: A Parallel Epidemic?. 2022; 11:(unknown pages). doi: 10.3390/jcm11061719

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35330044/
