PMID: 35348088
Title: Case Report of High-Grade Atrioventricular Block and Takotsubo Cardiomyopathy.

Abstract: INTRODUCTION: Takotsubo cardiomyopathy (TTC) is a condition with a good long-term prognosis. However, when the TTC is due to a life-threatening arrhythmia, such as atrioventricular block (AVB), several considerations must be made regarding treatment.
CASE PRESENTATION: A 71-year-old woman with a history of ischemic stroke presented after a syncopal episode. Before passing out, the patient was walking, nauseous, lightheaded, dizzy, and short of breath. In the emergency department, the blood pressure was 230/120 mmHg, and the heart rate was 38 beats per minute, but the patient was asymptomatic. An electrocardiogram showed a new-onset 2:1 AVB, bifascicular block, and prolonged PR and corrected QT intervals. An echocardiogram revealed a new-onset ejection fraction of 30% to 35%; hypokinesis of the apex, mid-inferoseptum, mid-anterolateral, apical to mid-inferior, and apical to mid-anterior walls; and hyperkinesis of the basal segments. The cardiac catheterization illustrated normal coronary arteries without significant stenosis. Therefore, the patient was diagnosed with TTC and 2:1 AVB. She was treated with lisinopril and metoprolol succinate and received a dual-chamber pacemaker. At the follow-up visit, the patient's ejection fraction and hypokinetic segments improved. She denied any recurrence of syncope, and her pacemaker was functioning appropriately.
CONCLUSION: When AVB or other arrhythmias initiate a TTC, the patient can experience sudden cardiac death and decompensate quickly. Therefore, clinicians should understand this rare but fatal complication because these patients require pacemakers and beta blockers.

Citation: Prasad R, et al. Case Report of High-Grade Atrioventricular Block and Takotsubo Cardiomyopathy. Case Report of High-Grade Atrioventricular Block and Takotsubo Cardiomyopathy. 2021; 25:(unknown pages). doi: 10.7812/TPP/21.006

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35348088/
