PMID: 35343490
Title: [High-risk percutaneous coronary intervention using hemodynamic support device eight years after transcatheter aortic valve implantation].

Abstract: Coronary artery disease is a frequent comorbidity in patients with severe aortic stenosis undergoing trans-catheter aortic valve implantation (TAVI) and the need to ensure coronary access after TAVI is fundamental. This aspect is becoming increasingly relevant as TAVI indication expand to younger and lower-risk patients. Moreover, the longer life expectancy of subjects who are currently treated with TAVI could result in an increased need for TAVI-in-TAVI due to valve degeneration. As the implantation of a second transcatheter bioprosthesis might impair coronary access, TAVI-in-TAVI will be unfeasible in a significant proportion of cases, particularly if they received a tall-frame transcatheter heart valve at the time of the first intervention. Thus, patients might experience the paradox of needing surgical aortic valve replacement when they are older and frailer. Here we report the case of a patient with history of coronary artery disease and severe aortic stenosis treated with TAVI, presenting with an acute coronary syndrome 8 years after percutaneous aortic valve implantation. Thanks to the low frame height of the transcatheter aortic valve, it was possible to easily perform coronary angiography and high-risk percutaneous coronary intervention using hemodynamic support device (Impella CP). Moreover, this case highlights how the implantation of a low-frame transcatheter prosthesis can increase the possibility of achieving coronary access even after TAVI-in-TAVI, if needed.

Citation: Montonati C, et al. [High-risk percutaneous coronary intervention using hemodynamic support device eight years after transcatheter aortic valve implantation]. [High-risk percutaneous coronary intervention using hemodynamic support device eight years after transcatheter aortic valve implantation]. 2021; 22:37-41. doi: 10.1714/3723.37139

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35343490/
