PMID: 35348907
Title: The utility of splenic imaging parameters in cardiac magnetic resonance for the diagnosis of immunoglobulin light-chain amyloidosis.

Abstract: OBJECTIVES: Cardiac magnetic resonance (CMR) imaging is a key test in the diagnosis of cardiac amyloidosis (CA). Extracardiac involvement is common in light chain (AL) amyloidosis and MRI findings may assist in its diagnosis. We sought to investigate the utility of splenic CMR parameters for the diagnosis of CA.
METHODS: Thirty-four patients with AL amyloidosis and 32 patients with severe left ventricular hypertrophy in the setting of aortic stenosis (LVH-AS) who completed 3T cardiac MRI at the time of their diagnosis of AL or LVH-AS were assessed with T1, T2 (modified Look-Locker inversion recovery), extracellular volume (ECV) mapping, and late gadolinium enhancement (LGE) imaging of the heart and spleen.
RESULTS: Age, left ventricular mass index, wall thickness, ejection fraction, and splenic dimensions did not differ significantly between groups. All AL patients had cardiac involvement. T1 and T2 spleen mapping did not differ significantly between groups but AL patients had higher median ECV in the spleen than in LVH-AS (AL 46.9%, LVH-AS: 31%, p < 0.001), and significantly lower short tau inversion recovery ratio (AL: 1.7, LVH-AS: 2.7, p < 0.001) both with very good diagnostic performance to diagnose AL. We identified 16 AL patients with spleen involvement and 16 without. Spleen ECV and "normalized" spleen ratio, defined as the ratio of spleen LGE to muscle values exhibited strong correlation and had excellent diagnostic performance to discriminate those with spleen involvement.
CONCLUSION: Our findings show that spleen CMR parameters can identify spleen involvement in AL patients and differentiate them from those without AL amyloidosis.

Citation: Lama N, et al. The utility of splenic imaging parameters in cardiac magnetic resonance for the diagnosis of immunoglobulin light-chain amyloidosis. The utility of splenic imaging parameters in cardiac magnetic resonance for the diagnosis of immunoglobulin light-chain amyloidosis. 2022; 13:55. doi: 10.1186/s13244-022-01194-8

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35348907/
