PMID: 35344116
Title: Caloric restriction overcomes pre-diabetes and hypertension induced by a high fat diet and renal artery stenosis.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Calorie restriction (CR) is a type of dietary intervention that is essential in weight loss through modulation of critical metabolic control pathways, is well established and understood in cases of systemic arterial hypertension, however, its role in renovascular hypertension is still unclear.
METHODS: Rats were divided into three groups: SHAM, and two groups that underwent surgery to clip the left renal artery and induce renovascular hypertension (OH and OHR). The SHAM diet was as follows: 14 weeks normolipidic diet; OH: 2 weeks normolipidic diet + 12 weeks hyperlipidic diet, both ad libitum; OHR, 2 weeks normolipidic diet + 8 weeks ad libitum high-fat diet + 4 weeks 40% calorie-restricted high-fat diet.
RESULTS: Rats in the OHR group had decreased blood pressure, body weight, and glucose levels. Reductions in insulinemia and in lipid and islet fibrotic areas in the OHR group were observed, along with increased insulin sensitivity and normalization of insulin-degrading enzyme levels. The expression of nicotinamide phosphoribosyltransferase (NAMPT), insulin receptor (IR), sirtuin 1 (SIRT1), and complex II proteins were increased in the liver tissue of the OHR group. Strong correlations, whether positive or negative, were evaluated via Spearman's model between SIRT1, AMPK, NAMPT, PGC-1α, and NNMT expressions with the restoration of normal blood pressure, weight loss, glycemic and lipid panel, and mitochondrial adaptation.
CONCLUSION: CR provided short-term beneficial effects to recover the physiological parameters induced by a high-fat diet and renal artery stenosis in obese and hypertensive animals. These benefits, even in the short term, can provide physiological benefits in the long term.

Citation: de Souza Nunes Faria MS, et al. Caloric restriction overcomes pre-diabetes and hypertension induced by a high fat diet and renal artery stenosis. Caloric restriction overcomes pre-diabetes and hypertension induced by a high fat diet and renal artery stenosis. 2022; 49:5883-5895. doi: 10.1007/s11033-022-07370-9

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35344116/
