PMID: 35341420
Title: Eptifibatide bridging therapy for staged carotid artery stenting and cardiac surgery: Safety and feasibility.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Prophylactic carotid artery stenting (CAS) is an effective strategy to reduce perioperative stroke in patients with severe carotid stenosis who require cardiothoracic surgery (CTS). Staging both procedures (CAS-CTS) during a single hospitalization presents conflicting demands for antiplatelet therapy and the optimal pharmacologic strategy between procedures is not established. The purpose of this study is to present our initial experience with a "bridging" protocol for staged CAS-CTS.
METHODS: A retrospective review of staged CAS-CTS procedures at a single referral center was performed. All patients had multivessel coronary and/or valvular disease and severe carotid stenosis (>70%). Patients not previously on aspirin were also started on aspirin prior to surgery, followed by eptifibatide during CAS (intraprocedural bolus followed by post-procedural infusion which was continued until the morning of surgery). Pre- and perioperative (30 days) neurologic morbidity and mortality was the primary endpoint.
RESULTS: 11 CAS procedures were performed in 10 patients using the protocol. The median duration of eptifibatide bridge therapy was 36 h (range 24-288 h). There was one minor bleeding complication (1/11, 9.1%) and no major bleeding complications during the bridging and post-operative period. There was one post-operative, non-neurologic death and zero perioperative ischemic strokes.
CONCLUSIONS: For patients undergoing staged CAS-CTS, Eptifibatide bridging therapy is a viable temporary antiplatelet strategy with a favorable safety profile. This strategy enables a flexible range of time-intervals between procedures.

Citation: Caton MT, et al. Eptifibatide bridging therapy for staged carotid artery stenting and cardiac surgery: Safety and feasibility. Eptifibatide bridging therapy for staged carotid artery stenting and cardiac surgery: Safety and feasibility. 2024; 32:433-439. doi: 10.1177/17085381221084813

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35341420/
