PMID: 35340326
Title: A new technique for surgical haemorrhoidectomy without post-operative complication: A case series.

Abstract: INTRODUCTION: Hemorrhoids are a common coloproctology problem and among 10% of cases need surgical intervention. However, the established surgical interventions still have many complications.
CASE PRESENTATION: We reported three female patients, who presented with circular 3rd degree internal hemorrhoids. The surgical treatment was performed with pre-operative anal dilatation using a 33 mm dilator for 20 minutes, followed by triangle incision above the dentate line. The hemorrhoid excision was performed, and the wound was sutured with simple interrupted radial sutures using a multifilament absorbable 3-0 thread. There were neither complaints of pain, bleeding, anal incontinence, anal stenosis, wound dehiscence, nor recurrence at the first, second, and fourth weeks of follow-ups in all patients.
DISCUSSION: Post-operative bleeding, pain, and anal incontinence are common after an open hemorrhoidectomy, while suture breakage and anal stenosis were reported after the old technique of closed hemorrhoidectomy. Stapled hemorrhoidectomy had less complications but requires a relatively more expensive cost for the device itself. We performed a combination of preoperative anal dilatation, above dentate line triangle incision, and simple interrupted radial sutures to treat the patients with 3rd degree internal hemorrhoids, which resulted in no post-operative complications within the first month of follow-up.
CONCLUSION: A combination of preoperative anal dilatation, above dentate line triangle incision, and radial suture technique is a simple and effective surgical option for treating a 3rd degree hemorrhoid.

Citation: Sofii I, et al. A new technique for surgical haemorrhoidectomy without post-operative complication: A case series. A new technique for surgical haemorrhoidectomy without post-operative complication: A case series. 2022; 76:103467. doi: 10.1016/j.amsu.2022.103467

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35340326/
