PMID: 35343310
Title: Anesthetic effect of ultrasound-guided block of the musculocutaneous nerve during endovascular treatment of dysfunctional radiocephalic arteriovenous fistulas.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Delivering requisite and minimal anesthesia for endovascular treatment (EVT) of dysfunctional arteriovenous fistulas (AVFs) under the target nerve block can achieve reasonable analgesia. We evaluated the anesthetic efficacy of ultrasound (US)-guided selective block of the musculocutaneous nerve (MCN) during the EVT of runoff venous strictures in the forearm through the radiocephalic (RC)-AVF at the wrist or the anatomical snuff box and analyzed the factors inhibiting the analgesia achieved under the MCN block.
METHODS: We enrolled 30 adult patients undergoing hemodialysis who had received 78 EVT sessions in an outpatient clinic mainly for long and/or multiple outflow-venous strictures in the forearm under US-guided blocks of the MCN, which provides sensory innervation to the anterolateral forearm where the cephalic vein courses. We assessed patients' pain during balloon dilations using the Wong-Baker FACES® Pain Rating Scale (WBFRS) and evaluated the factors increasing the pain (WBFRS score ⩾4), including patient characteristics, dilated strictures, additional nerve blocks, and types of balloon catheters.
RESULTS: In 25 EVT sessions (32.1%) out of 78 sessions, patients complained of stronger pain (WBFRS score ⩾4), while in the other 53 sessions (67.9%), presented with no pain and slight pain (WBFRS score = 0 or 2). Univariate analysis clarified that dilation of the AVF anastomosis, presence of dilated stenosis &gt;4 cm, and a single block of the MCN or its sensory terminal significantly triggered more pain (p &lt; 0.05). Consequently, multivariate analysis of all the factors with p &lt; 0.1 in the univariate analysis, including multiple dilated stenosis sites, demonstrated that dilation of the AVF anastomosis significantly caused severe pain despite the anesthesia of the MCN block (p &lt; 0.05).
CONCLUSION: US-guided selective block of the MCN could be a leading anesthetic option for EVT for multiple long stenoses of the cephalic vein draining through the RC-AVF in the wrist or anatomical snuff box.

Citation: Matsuda H, et al. Anesthetic effect of ultrasound-guided block of the musculocutaneous nerve during endovascular treatment of dysfunctional radiocephalic arteriovenous fistulas. Anesthetic effect of ultrasound-guided block of the musculocutaneous nerve during endovascular treatment of dysfunctional radiocephalic arteriovenous fistulas. 2023; 24:1314-1321. doi: 10.1177/11297298221075178

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35343310/
