PMID: 35359199
Title: Reconstruction of carotid stenosis hemodynamics based on guidewire pressure data and computational modeling.

Abstract: A comparative analysis between intravascular guidewire-obtained and computational fluid dynamic (CFD) flow velocity and pressure data using simplified carotid stenosis models was performed. This information was used to evaluate the viability of using guidewire pressure data to provide inlet conditions for CFD flow, and to study the relationship between stenotic length and hemodynamic behavior. Carotid stenosis models differing in diameter and length were prepared and connected to a vascular pulsatile flow simulator. Time-dependent flow velocity and pressure measurements were taken by microcatheter guidewires and compared with CFD data. Guidewire and CFD-generated pressure profiles matched closely in all measurement locations. The guidewire was unable to reliably measure flow velocity at areas associated with higher CFD flow velocities (r = 0.92). CFD results showed that an increased length of stenosis generated expansive regions of elevated wall shear stress (WSS) within and distal to the stenosis. Low WSS was found immediately outside the stenosis outlet. An increase in stenotic length produced higher flow velocities with minimal lengthening of the distal high velocity flow jet due to faster dissipation of translational kinetic energy through turbulence. We found the accuracy of guidewire-obtained velocity measurements is limited to regions unaffected by disturbed flow. WSS and turbulence behavior distal to the stenosis may be important markers to evaluate the severity of atherosclerotic progression as a function of stenotic length.

Citation: Dinh H, et al. Reconstruction of carotid stenosis hemodynamics based on guidewire pressure data and computational modeling. Reconstruction of carotid stenosis hemodynamics based on guidewire pressure data and computational modeling. 2022; 60:1253-1268. doi: 10.1007/s11517-021-02463-2

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35359199/
