PMID: 35351216
Title: Life satisfaction, health-related quality of life and physical activity after treatment for valvular aortic stenosis.

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: To investigate health-related quality of life and life satisfaction in children and adolescents treated for isolated congenital valvular aortic stenosis compared to healthy peers. Our second aim was to investigate the relationship between objectively measured physical activity, health-related quality of life and life satisfaction in the same group.
METHODS: Forty-eight patients, 8-18 years of age, were recruited, as well as 43 healthy peers matched for age, gender and residential area. Health-related quality of life was assessed by the KIDSCREEN-52 self-report and parent proxy report, and life satisfaction was evaluated with the Satisfaction With Life Scale. Physical activity was measured with an accelerometer for 7 days. Sports participation was self-reported.
RESULTS: No differences in the health-related quality of life domains were found between patients and controls in the self-reports. In the proxy reports, parents of the adolescents rated their child's autonomy lower than did the parents of the healthy controls. A negative relationship was found between moderate to vigorous physical activity, sports participation, life satisfaction and the psychological well-being domain in adolescent patients. In children there was a positive relationship between moderate physical activity and the physical and psychological well-being domains.
CONCLUSION: Overall, children and adolescents treated for valvular aortic stenosis reported similar life satisfaction and health-related quality of life as their healthy peers. The negative relationships between intense physical activity and sports participation with health-related quality of life and life satisfaction in adolescent patients might be explained by both physical and psychological factors in these teenagers with complex, lifelong heart disease.

Citation: Kjellberg Olofsson C, et al. Life satisfaction, health-related quality of life and physical activity after treatment for valvular aortic stenosis. Life satisfaction, health-related quality of life and physical activity after treatment for valvular aortic stenosis. 2023; 33:403-409. doi: 10.1017/S1047951122000920

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35351216/
