PMID: 35358299
Title: Both G protein-coupled and immunoreceptor tyrosine-based activation motif receptors mediate venous thrombosis in mice.

Abstract: Platelets are critical in hemostasis and a major contributor to arterial thrombosis (AT). (Pre)clinical studies suggest platelets also contribute to venous thrombosis (VT), but the mechanisms are largely unknown. We hypothesized that in VT, platelets use signaling machinery distinct from AT. Here we aimed to characterize the contributions of platelet G protein-coupled (GPCR) and immunoreceptor tyrosine-based activation motif (ITAM) receptor signaling to VT. Wild-type (WT) and transgenic mice were treated with inhibitors to selectively inhibit platelet-signaling pathways: ITAM-CLEC2 (Clec2mKO), glycoprotein VI (JAQ1 antibody), and Bruton's tyrosine kinase (ibrutinib); GPCR-cyclooxygenase 1 (aspirin); and P2Y12 (clopidogrel). VT was induced by inferior vena cava stenosis. Thrombin generation in platelet-rich plasma and whole-blood clot formation were studied ex vivo. Intravital microscopy was used to study platelet-leukocyte interactions after flow restriction. Thrombus weights were reduced in WT mice treated with high-dose aspirin + clopidogrel (dual antiplatelet therapy [DAPT]) but not in mice treated with either inhibitor alone or low-dose DAPT. Similarly, thrombus weights were reduced in mice with impaired ITAM signaling (Clec2mKO + JAQ1; WT + ibrutinib) but not in Clec2mKO or WT + JAQ1 mice. Both aspirin and clopidogrel, but not ibrutinib, protected mice from FeCl3-induced AT. Thrombin generation and clot formation were normal in blood from high-dose DAPT- or ibrutinib-treated mice; however, platelet adhesion and platelet-neutrophil aggregate formation at the vein wall were reduced in mice treated with high-dose DAPT or ibrutinib. In summary, VT initiation requires platelet activation via GPCRs and ITAM receptors. Strong inhibition of either signaling pathway reduces VT in mice.

Citation: Mwiza JMN, et al. Both G protein-coupled and immunoreceptor tyrosine-based activation motif receptors mediate venous thrombosis in mice. Both G protein-coupled and immunoreceptor tyrosine-based activation motif receptors mediate venous thrombosis in mice. 2022; 139:3194-3203. doi: 10.1182/blood.2022015787

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35358299/
