PMID: 35359166
Title: Impact of machine-learning-based coronary computed tomography angiography-derived fractional flow reserve on decision-making in patients with severe aortic stenosis undergoing transcatheter aortic valve replacement.

Abstract: OBJECTIVES: To evaluate feasibility and diagnostic performance of coronary CT angiography (CCTA)-derived fractional flow reserve (CT-FFR) for detection of significant coronary artery disease (CAD) and decision-making in patients with severe aortic stenosis (AS) undergoing transcatheter aortic valve replacement (TAVR) to potentially avoid additional pre-TAVR invasive coronary angiography (ICA).
METHODS: Consecutive patients with severe AS (n = 95, 78.6 ± 8.8 years, 53% female) undergoing pre-procedural TAVR-CT followed by ICA with quantitative coronary angiography were retrospectively analyzed. CCTA datasets were evaluated using CAD Reporting and Data System (CAD-RADS) classification. CT-FFR measurements were computed using an on-site machine-learning algorithm. A combined algorithm was developed for decision-making to determine if ICA is needed based on pre-TAVR CCTA: [1] all patients with CAD-RADS ≥ 4 are referred for ICA; [2] patients with CAD-RADS 2 and 3 are evaluated utilizing CT-FFR and sent to ICA if CT-FFR ≤ 0.80; [3] patients with CAD-RADS < 2 or CAD-RADS 2-3 and normal CT-FFR are not referred for ICA.
RESULTS: Twelve patients (13%) had significant CAD (≥ 70% stenosis) on ICA and were treated with PCI. Twenty-eight patients (30%) showed CT-FFR ≤ 0.80 and 24 (86%) of those were reported to have a maximum stenosis ≥ 50% during ICA. Using the proposed algorithm, significant CAD could be identified with a sensitivity, specificity, and positive and negative predictive value of 100%, 78%, 40%, and 100%, respectively, potentially decreasing the number of necessary ICAs by 65 (68%).
CONCLUSION: Combination of CT-FFR and CAD-RADS is able to identify significant CAD pre-TAVR and bears potential to significantly reduce the number of needed ICAs.
KEY POINTS: • Coronary CT angiography-derived fractional flow reserve (CT-FFR) using machine learning together with the CAD Reporting and Data System (CAD-RADS) classification safely identifies significant coronary artery disease based on quantitative coronary angiography in patients prior to transcatheter aortic valve replacement. • The combination of CT-FFR and CAD-RADS enables decision-making and bears the potential to significantly reduce the number of needed invasive coronary angiographies.

Citation: Brandt V, et al. Impact of machine-learning-based coronary computed tomography angiography-derived fractional flow reserve on decision-making in patients with severe aortic stenosis undergoing transcatheter aortic valve replacement. Impact of machine-learning-based coronary computed tomography angiography-derived fractional flow reserve on decision-making in patients with severe aortic stenosis undergoing transcatheter aortic valve replacement. 2022; 32:6008-6016. doi: 10.1007/s00330-022-08758-8

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35359166/
