PMID: 35351331
Title: Anxiety and Depression in Patients With Idiopathic Subglottic Stenosis.

Abstract: OBJECTIVES: To characterize the presence and severity of anxiety and depression in patients with symptomatic idiopathic subglottic stenosis (ISGS). To determine the relationship between dyspnea severity and anxiety and depression symptom severity.
METHODS: Patients diagnosed with idiopathic subglottic stenosis and treated at Mayo Clinic Florida or Mayo Clinic Arizona retrospectively completed the PROMIS Depression, PROMIS Anxiety, PROMIS Dyspnea Functional Limitations, and Dyspnea Index questionnaires. Patients with dyspnea and without idiopathic subglottic stenosis were also asked to complete the questionnaires as a control group.
RESULTS: This explorative retrospective study includes 44 control patients and 46 ISGS patients. Unadjusted and adjusted group comparisons found no statistically significant difference in dyspnea index, depression, anxiety, nor dyspnea functional limitation scores. Relationships between dyspnea severity and anxiety and depression severity were significant and persistent in both groups. Anxiety and depression were positively correlated (r = 0.66). Dyspnea severity positively correlate with both anxiety and depression (anxiety r = 0.49, depression r = 0.32).
CONCLUSIONS: Patients with symptomatic idiopathic subglottic stenosis are not at an increased risk of having anxiety and depression when compared to other dyspneic patients. As dyspnea severity worsens, patients are more likely to experience anxiety and depression. These findings support the prior literature and suggest the presence of dyspnea may warrant appropriate psychological screening and treatment to optimize dyspneic patients' quality of life and symptom improvement.

Citation: Case HF, et al. Anxiety and Depression in Patients With Idiopathic Subglottic Stenosis. Anxiety and Depression in Patients With Idiopathic Subglottic Stenosis. 2024; 38:1165-1169. doi: 10.1016/j.jvoice.2022.02.020

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35351331/
