PMID: 35368945
Title: Curative Effect of Foraminal Endoscopic Surgery and Efficacy of the Wearable Lumbar Spine Protection Equipment in the Treatment of Lumbar Disc Herniation.

Abstract: Lumbar disc herniation is a common and frequently-occurring disease in pain clinics. The incidence rate of affliction is increasing with every passing year. Besides the aged, young people also suffer from long-term pain, which not only affects their daily routines but may also lead to serious impairment. The causes of chronic low back and leg pain caused by lumbar disc herniation are mainly related to mechanical compression, the adhesion of epidural space, intervertebral space, and aseptic inflammatory reaction. The treatment of lumbar disc herniation should follow the principle of step-by-step treatment. An appropriate treatment scheme needs to be adopted according to the patient's condition. About 80% of patients received nonsurgical treatment to get relief from the pain symptoms. However, 10% to 15% of patients still need traditional open surgery. Spinal foraminal surgery is a new method for the treatment of lumbar disc herniation, lumbar surgery failure syndrome, and lumbar spinal stenosis. However, there are only scattered clinical reports on the efficacy of spinal foraminal surgery. Based on it, this paper proposes a method to explore the efficacy of spinal foraminal mirror surgery in the treatment of lumbar disc herniation. Besides, postoperative wearable lumbar protective equipment is proposed to ensure a seamless rehabilitation effect on the patients. Statistical analysis performed using a t-test revealed that there was a significant difference between the visual analog scales (VAS) scores of the two groups after 3 and 6 months of treatment (P &lt; 0.05). The paper analyzes and summarizes the cases with definite and poor curative effects, which not only provides the basis for clinical practice but also paves the way to multicenter clinical research.

Citation: Meng Z, et al. Curative Effect of Foraminal Endoscopic Surgery and Efficacy of the Wearable Lumbar Spine Protection Equipment in the Treatment of Lumbar Disc Herniation. Curative Effect of Foraminal Endoscopic Surgery and Efficacy of the Wearable Lumbar Spine Protection Equipment in the Treatment of Lumbar Disc Herniation. 2022; 2022:6463863. doi: 10.1155/2022/6463863

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35368945/
