PMID: 35366853
Title: Ultrasonography evaluation on the protective effect of combination therapy of beraprost sodium and aspirin on arteries occlusion and stiffness in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus - a prospective, randomized study.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) are susceptible to developing symptomatic peripheral arterial disease (PAD). As a proven vasodilator and antiplatelet agent, the efficiency of Beraprost sodium (BPS) on the prevention of arteries occlusion and stiffness in T2DM patients with PAD has not yet been fully investigated.
METHODS: From July 2010 to April 2012, 64 Patients enrolled were randomly assigned to the combined therapy group (n=32), which received combination therapy with BPS (60 μg/day) and aspirin (100 mg/day), or to the control group (n=32), which only received aspirin (100 mg/day). After randomization, the patients were followed up at years 0, 1, 2, 3, 4, and 5 with the evaluation of carotid intima-media thickness (CIMT), pulse wave velocity (PWV), inner artery diameter, stenosis rate, and medial arterial calcification (MAC) of lower limb arteries via high-resolution ultrasound measurement. Adverse events were also recorded in each visit.
RESULTS: There was no significant change of the CIMT during the follow-up in both groups when compared to the baseline. Similar results were also observed in the PWV measurement. Significantly increases in the inner artery diameter of the dorsal pedal artery and posterior tibial artery were observed in patients with BPS and aspirin administration during the follow-up. Patients in the combined therapy group experienced marked improvement of MAC in the dorsal pedal artery and posterior tibial artery at the end of the follow-up. No significant difference in the adverse events was found between the combined therapy group and the aspirin group.
CONCLUSION: The combined therapy of BPS and aspirin showed a protective effect on arteries occlusion and stiffness in T2DM patients with PAD, along with a significant improvement of inner artery diameter and MAC in lower limbs.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: http://www.chictr.org.cn , ChiCTR-TRC-10000919. Prospectively registered on 2010/06/29.

Citation: Lin X, et al. Ultrasonography evaluation on the protective effect of combination therapy of beraprost sodium and aspirin on arteries occlusion and stiffness in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus - a prospective, randomized study. Ultrasonography evaluation on the protective effect of combination therapy of beraprost sodium and aspirin on arteries occlusion and stiffness in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus - a prospective, randomized study. 2022; 22:87. doi: 10.1186/s12902-022-01007-5

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35366853/
