PMID: 35366499
Title: Influence of lamina vastoadductoria dissection on the outcomes of femoral artery extensive lesion stenting: A pilot randomised investigation.

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: Aim of the study was to improve the immediate and long-term results of stenting of the superficial femoral artery in extended lesions with the changing of the biomechanics of superficial ffemoral artery and of the first portion of the popliteal artery.
METHODS: Pilot randomized prospective single-center study were included 70 patients. Patients were randomized into two groups in 1 × 1 format for 35 people using the envelope method. Self-expanding bare metal stents were used in all cases. At the first group standard revascularization procedures with SFA stenting were performed; in the second group, the superficial femoral artery stenting was supplemented with fasciotomy in the Hunter's canal with the superficial femoral artery intersection. The total observation period was 2 years. During the observation period an assessment of the clinical symptoms of the lower extremities, measurement of the ankle-brachial index and ultrasound duplex scanning of the operated segment were performed.
RESULTS: All procedures in both groups were successfully performed. Primary patency through 24 months was 28.5% (10 of 35) in group 1 and 60% (21 of 35) in group 2 (p = 0,015).
CONCLUSIONS: Changing the biomechanical properties of the distal of the superficial femoral artery segment and of the first portion of the popliteal artery is safe and contributes to the primary patency improvement during the stenting of extended of the superficial femoral artery lesions compared to standard SFA stenting. Dissection of the lamina vastoadductoria with transection of the collateral branches of the knee joint network reduces frequent and severe damages of stents after the stenting of the superficial femoral artery extended lesion. According to the frequency of complications in the early and mid-term postoperative period, limb salvage, mortality and the secondary patency rates, the new method is comparable with standard of the superficial femoral artery stenting.

Citation: Karpenko AA, et al. Influence of lamina vastoadductoria dissection on the outcomes of femoral artery extensive lesion stenting: A pilot randomised investigation. Influence of lamina vastoadductoria dissection on the outcomes of femoral artery extensive lesion stenting: A pilot randomised investigation. 2022; 136:111053. doi: 10.1016/j.jbiomech.2022.111053

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35366499/
