PMID: 35361259
Title: Infliximab therapy of relapsing tracheal stenosis in a pediatric patient with granulomatosis with polyangiitis: a case report.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Granulomatosis with polyangiitis is a granulomatous, necrotizing small-vessel vasculitis affecting both children and adults. However, subglottic tracheal stenosis appears more frequently in the pediatric cohort. To date, granulomatosis with polyangiitis is often treated with steroids, cyclophosphamide, azathioprine, or rituximab, but tumor-necrosis-factor-α-antagonistic drugs are increasingly gaining significance in treatment of refractory cases.
CASE PRESENTATION: We report the case of a 15-year-old Caucasian male diagnosed with proteinase-3-positive granulomatosis with polyangiitis with acute shortness of breath. X-ray and magnet resonance imaging showed extensive subglottic narrowing. Forced expiratory volume in 1 s was reduced to 50% of age norm, with massively increased effective airway resistance. The patient initially responded very well to high-dose steroids and maintenance therapy with azathioprine. He was subsequently treated with four doses of rituximab, and levels of proteinase 3 antibodies normalized. After 6 months of clinical remission, the patient presented again with acute respiratory symptoms. Again, he was treated with high-dose steroids, but showed poor clinical response this time. Therefore, we decided to commence a tumor-necrosis-factor-α-antagonistic treatment with infliximab, under which our patient achieved clinical remission and normalization of lung function parameters.
CONCLUSIONS: The use of tumor-necrosis-factor-α-antagonistic agents might be a promising alternative for the treatment of refractory tracheal stenosis in pediatric patients with granulomatosis with polyangiitis.

Citation: Schnell A, et al. Infliximab therapy of relapsing tracheal stenosis in a pediatric patient with granulomatosis with polyangiitis: a case report. Infliximab therapy of relapsing tracheal stenosis in a pediatric patient with granulomatosis with polyangiitis: a case report. 2022; 16:129. doi: 10.1186/s13256-022-03370-2

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35361259/
