PMID: 35363183
Title: Complementary and alternative therapies for stable angina pectoris of coronary heart disease: A protocol for systematic review and network meta-analysis.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Stable angina pectoris in patients with coronary heart disease is a clinical syndrome of rapid transient ischemia and hypoxia of myocardium due to the increase of myocardial load on the basis of fixed severe coronary artery stenosis. In recent years, the incidence rate of this disease has been rising steadily, which seriously threatens human life and health. When the disease occurs, its complementary and alternative therapy can relieve chest pain, improve cardiac function, and reduce adverse events. However, in retrospect of all the studies, we lack systematic analysis of the efficacy and safety of various complementary and alternative therapies. The curative effects were ranked. On the basis of these findings, we conducted a study of complementary and alternative therapy in patients with coronary heart disease, and proposed a network meta-analysis (NMA) protocol to explore the efficacy of different complementary and alternative therapies.
METHODS: We will comprehensively search the Chinese and English databases from the creation date to January 15, 2022. The randomized controlled trials of the supplementary and alternative treatment of stable angina pediatrics in patients with coronary heart disease and the relevant literature of the ongoing trials will be published. The 2 researchers will conduct literature screening and data extraction independently, using Cochrane system evaluator manual 5 3. The recommended bias risk assessment tool was used to evaluate the quality of the included study, Q-test was used and combined with heterogeneity analysis, and the analysis sensitivity was observed. The Review Manager 5.4 software provided by Cochrane Collaboration Network is used to statistically analyze the included literature, and the obtained results are made into forest map and funnel map for data analysis and processing. It is suggested that the evaluation will be used to formulate and evaluate the level, so as to classify the quality of NMA evidence.
RESULTS: Through analysis, we will get the efficacy and safety ranking of different complementary and alternative therapies in the treatment of stable angina pediatrics in patients with coronary heart disease, so as to provide further reference for the selection of clinical treatment methods.
CONCLUSION: The complementary and alternative treatment of stable angina peptis in patients with coronary heart disease has a positive effect on improving its symptoms. This study can provide evidence support for clinicians and patients.
INPLASY REGISTRATION NUMBER: INPLASY202210066.

Citation: Wang G, et al. Complementary and alternative therapies for stable angina pectoris of coronary heart disease: A protocol for systematic review and network meta-analysis. Complementary and alternative therapies for stable angina pectoris of coronary heart disease: A protocol for systematic review and network meta-analysis. 2022; 101:e28850. doi: 10.1097/MD.0000000000028850

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35363183/
