PMID: 35373492
Title: The incidence of lumbar spine surgery following Minimally Invasive Lumbar Decompression and Superion Indirect Decompression System for treatment of lumbar spinal stenosis: a retrospective review.

Abstract: INTRODUCTION: Lumbar spinal stenosis affects more than 200,000 adults in the United States, resulting in approximately 38,000 operations among the Medicare population and greater than $1.5 billion in hospital bills alone. Fortunately, Minimally Invasive Lumbar Decompression (MILD) and the Superion Indirect Decompression System have shown lasting benefit and cost savings compared to more aggressive surgical options.
OBJECTIVE: Our primary objective was to retrospectively determine the rate of lumbar decompression surgery following the MILD and Superion procedures.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: This was a pooled retrospective review of LSS patients who received MILD and/or Superion procedures between January 2011 and July 2019. Adult patients with CPT codes for MILD and Superion procedures were identified. Patients were included if they had a follow-up visit at least 2 years from the procedure date, preprocedural MRI results, and surgical notes.
RESULTS: A total of 199 patients were included in the final analysis, of which 57 patients (28.6%) underwent MILD procedure only, 124 patients (62.3%) underwent Superion only, and 18 patients (9.0%) underwent an MILD procedure initially followed by a Superion procedure. Two patients had an MILD procedure performed twice at the same level at separate encounters. A total of four patients in the entire cohort (2.0%; MILD 5.3%, Superion 0.8%) underwent subsequent lumbar spine surgery when followed for at least 2 years. It is notable that some of these patients may not have been surgical candidates and this may have skewed the results.
CONCLUSIONS: Patients undergoing minimally invasive decompression treatment of lumbar spinal stenosis have low rates of subsequent open surgery which potentially results in cost savings and a reduction in severe adverse events. The reason for low surgical rate may reflect improvement in their symptoms, a preference to avoid surgery, or being deemed not a surgical candidate.

Citation: Hagedorn JM, et al. The incidence of lumbar spine surgery following Minimally Invasive Lumbar Decompression and Superion Indirect Decompression System for treatment of lumbar spinal stenosis: a retrospective review. The incidence of lumbar spine surgery following Minimally Invasive Lumbar Decompression and Superion Indirect Decompression System for treatment of lumbar spinal stenosis: a retrospective review. 2022; 22:516-521. doi: 10.1111/papr.13111

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35373492/
