PMID: 35371677
Title: The Role of Early Postoperative Intracranial Pressure Monitoring in Predicting the Outcome of Endoscopic Third Ventriculostomy Performed in Infants With Congenital Hydrocephalus: A Prospective Analysis.

Abstract: Introduction Hydrocephalus is an excessive accumulation of cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) in the cavity and spaces of the brain. To date, there is no single method to accurately assess the compliance of subarachnoid spaces after endoscopic third ventriculostomy (ETV). Objective To analyze the intracranial pressure (ICP) trends in the early postoperative period in infants undergoing ETV for congenital hydrocephalus and correlate them with the final outcome. Material and methods This is a single-center prospective study conducted at the Department of Neurosurgery of our institute from January 2019 to February 2020. Infants presented with congenital hydrocephalus mandating ETV were included in the study. ICP was continuously monitored for the first three days after the procedure. ICP values were recorded hourly, and 24 ICP values obtained daily were averaged to obtain a daily average value (DAV). Results Forty patients were recruited in the study. The mean age of the study population was 4.7 ± 2.8 months; 80% of the infants were <6 months of age. The male/female ratio was 5.7:1. The most common etiology was congenital aqueductal stenosis, which was observed in 18 (45%) of the patients, followed by Dandy-Walker malformation (DWM) in 11 (27.5%) of the patients. On considering a difference of >1 mmHg between the first and third postoperative day, the ETV success rate was dropped from 50% in stable trend to 11% in progressive increase trend, which was statistically significant (p = 0.044). At DAV variation of >2 mmHg in progressive increase trend, the sensitivity of stable ICP trend increased to 100% in predicting ETV success. Also, the negative predictive value (the ability of a stable trend to rule out ETV failure) reached 100%. The overall success rates of ETV in our study at one, three, and six months were 62.5%, 40%, and 35%, respectively. Conclusion A progressive increase in the ICP trend (with a difference of >2 mmHg between postoperative days 1 and 3) was the best predictor of ETV failure in our study. It was superior to any other clinical or radiological variable in our study, which was affecting the outcome.

Citation: Yadav A and Verma R. The Role of Early Postoperative Intracranial Pressure Monitoring in Predicting the Outcome of Endoscopic Third Ventriculostomy Performed in Infants With Congenital Hydrocephalus: A Prospective Analysis. The Role of Early Postoperative Intracranial Pressure Monitoring in Predicting the Outcome of Endoscopic Third Ventriculostomy Performed in Infants With Congenital Hydrocephalus: A Prospective Analysis. 2022; 14:e22354. doi: 10.7759/cureus.22354

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35371677/
