PMID: 35381387
Title: Shear stress regulates the SNAP23-mediated endothelial secretion of VWF through the GPR68/PKA/vimentin mechanotransduction pathway.

Abstract: Von Willebrand Factor (VWF) can promote platelet adhesion to the post-atherosclerotic regions to initiate thrombosis. The synthesis and secretion of VWF are important functions of endothelial cells (ECs). However, the mechanism through which blood flow regulates endothelial secretion of VWF remains unclear. We utilized a parallel-plate flow apparatus to apply fluid shear stress to human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVECs). Compared with pulsatile shear stress that mimics laminar flow in the straight parts of arteries or upstream of atherosclerotic stenosis sites, short-term exposure to oscillatory shear stress (OS) that mimics disturbed flow increased VWF secretion independent of affecting synaptosomal-associated protein 23 (SNAP23) expression and promoted the translocation of SNAP23 to the cell membrane. Vimentin associated with SNAP23, and this association was enhanced by OS or histamine. Acrylamide, a reagent that disrupts vimentin intermediate filaments, prevented histamine/OS-induced SNAP23 translocation, as well as VWF secretion. Immunofluorescence analysis revealed that the polarity of the vimentin intermediate filament network decreased after stimulation with histamine or OS. In addition, inhibition of protein kinase A (PKA) or G protein coupled receptor 68 (GPR68) eliminated the histamine/OS-induced phosphorylation of vimentin at Ser38 and secretion of VWF. Furthermore, syntaxin 7 might assist with the translocation of SNAP23 to the cell membrane, thus playing a role in promoting VWF secretion. The GPR68/PKA/vimentin signaling pathway may represent a novel mechanism for the regulation of SNAP23-mediated VWF secretion by ECs under OS and provide strategies for the prevention of atherosclerosis-related thrombosis.

Citation: Jiang Z, et al. Shear stress regulates the SNAP23-mediated endothelial secretion of VWF through the GPR68/PKA/vimentin mechanotransduction pathway. Shear stress regulates the SNAP23-mediated endothelial secretion of VWF through the GPR68/PKA/vimentin mechanotransduction pathway. 2022; 607:166-173. doi: 10.1016/j.bbrc.2022.03.073

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35381387/
