PMID: 35386243
Title: Retrospective evaluation of cervical fusion with DTRAX (R) cervical cage.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Cervical radiculopathy is a relatively common problem that often affects individuals in their 5th decade. Most cases resolve with conservative treatment, but when unsuccessful, many opt for surgical intervention. Anterior cervical discectomy and fusion is currently considered the gold standard for the surgical management of cervical radiculopathy. One promising alternative, the DTRAX facet system is minimally invasive and may significantly reduce or eliminate cervical radicular symptoms. This case series and literature review looks to investigate the safety and efficacy of the DTRAX facet system in treating cervical radiculopathy.
METHODS: This retrospective analysis was performed by chart review of patients who underwent posterior cervical fusion and received the DTRAX spinal implant at University of California, Los Angeles within the last 8 years. Patient charts were located using the surgical cases report function of Epic electronic medical record, and patients were included in the study if they received a DTRAX implant during the stated time period. Data were compiled and analyzed using Microsoft Excel.
RESULTS: A total of 14 patient charts were reviewed. Of the 14, there were no immediate postoperative complications. One international patient was subsequently lost to follow-up, and of the remaining 13, mean follow-up duration was 273 days, with a range of 15-660 days. All but one reported improvement of symptoms postoperatively, there were no device failures, and no reoperations were required. There were similar outcomes in patients who received single versus multilevel operations.
CONCLUSION: The findings of this retrospective study of 14 patients who received the DTRAX facet system over the last 8 years support the conclusions of previous studies that DTRAX is safe and effective. In addition, this is the first study to look for differences in outcomes between single and multi-level DTRAX operations, of which there were none. Further investigation with larger cohorts should be conducted as DTRAX becomes more widely adopted in order to verify its safety and efficacy in various clinical scenarios.

Citation: Yazdanshenas H, et al. Retrospective evaluation of cervical fusion with DTRAX (R) cervical cage. Retrospective evaluation of cervical fusion with DTRAX (R) cervical cage. 2022; 13:48-54. doi: 10.4103/jcvjs.jcvjs_150_21

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35386243/
