PMID: 35382983
Title: The modified Belt-Fuqua procedure using an asymmetric "furisode" sleeve for proximal hypospadias with severe curvature.

Abstract: INTRODUCTION AND OBJECTIVES: Proximal hypospadias repair is a challenge in the pediatric urology field. Although the previous reports showed that the Belt-Fuqua staged procedure is reliable with a low complication rate for midshaft hypospadias, this procedure has not been generally applied to more proximal hypospadias with severe ventral curvature due to technical limitations. To solve these technical limitations, we developed a modified Belt-Fuqua procedure using an asymmetric long skin sleeve looking like a Japanese long-sleeved Kimono called a "furisode". The aim of this study was to evaluate the outcomes of this new modification of the Belt-Fuqua procedure for the repair of proximal hypospadias with severe curvature in children.
STUDY DESIGN: The study retrospectively reviewed consecutive patients with proximal hypospadias with severe curvature underwent this new technique. The major modifications included are proximal degloving beyond the urethral meatus, asymmetrical ventral transposition of dorsal preputial skin like a furisode sleeve, and circumferential proximal anastomosis of preputial skin to native meatus in the first stage. Hypospadias severity was evaluated objectively in two ways: preoperatively by the Glans-Urethral Meatus-Shaft score and intraoperative direct measurement of ventral curvature. The primary outcome was urethroplasty complications.
RESULTS: A total of 66 patients completed both stages of the furisode technique. The median Glans-Urethral Meatus-Shaft score was 11. Overall, 60 (91%) patients showed ventral curvature greater than 60 degrees after degloving, and 35 (53%) underwent ventral grafting with a dermal graft in the first stage. Median urethral length constructed at the second stage was 41.5 mm. The median follow-up period was 25 months. Complications occurred in 9 patients (14%); 7 had urethral diverticula, 1 showed a fistula and 1 had a urethral stricture. Neither glans dehiscence nor meatal stenosis occurred.
DISCUSSION: There are a couple of advantages of this furisode technique to other tunneled flap techniques like the Ulaanbaatar procedure. The first is the ease of glans reshaping with a Firlit collar at the first stage because of no urethra in the glans. The second is that a long neourethra could be made by the same skin flap with one anastomosis to the native urethra.The weakness of this procedure was that urethral diverticula were prone to occur less than one year after urethroplasty.
CONCLUSION: The furisode technique, a new modification of the Belt-Fuqua procedure, provides an alternative staged repair of proximal hypospadias. This technique was easily applied for hypospadias with severe curvature requiring ventral grafting.

Citation: Yamazaki Y, et al. The modified Belt-Fuqua procedure using an asymmetric "furisode" sleeve for proximal hypospadias with severe curvature. The modified Belt-Fuqua procedure using an asymmetric "furisode" sleeve for proximal hypospadias with severe curvature. 2022; 18:365.e1-365.e8. doi: 10.1016/j.jpurol.2022.03.013

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35382983/
