PMID: 35384823
Title: Reversible Ischemic Nephropathy in a Deceased Donor Renal Transplant Recipient With BK Nephropathy.

Abstract: Atherosclerotic renal artery stenosis is one of the risk factors for cardiovascular death and can lead to the ischemic nephropathy. In this report, we describe the successful management of ischemic nephropathy that developed in a kidney transplant recipient with graft artery stenosis. The 52-year-old male patient had diabetes and hypertension and was a nonsmoker with hypothyroidism on replacement therapy. He had a history of recurrent urinary tract infection due to vesicoureteric reflux before starting hemodialysis in July 2009. In November 2020, he received a deceased donor renal allograft and showed slow graft function. He received thymoglobulin as induction and steroid, tacrolimus, and mycophenolate mofetil as maintenance therapy. He was discharged with nadir creatinine around 130 μmol/L. His diabetes was controlled by intensive insulin regimen. Later, he presented with graft dysfunction with partially controlled hypertension and suspected graft artery stenosis by Doppler ultrasonography but no evidence of obstruction. His tacrolimus level was adequate, and his echocardiography was unremarkable. He received empirical pulse steroid. A graft biopsy showed severe acute tubular necrosis, suspicious T-cell-mediated rejection, and negative C4d and positive SV40 stain, suggesting BK nephropathy. His BK viremia (500 copies/mL) and viruria (885 billion copies/mL) improved after immunosuppression minimization, although he remained dependent on dialysis. A repeated Doppler ultrasonogram showed flattening of the systolic wave. Computed tomographic angiography revealed diffusely attenuated graft arteries. The patient received graft artery angioplasty and stenting of the 2 arteries. The patient showed good response, with same-day urine production and Doppler showing good systolic wave. His graft function started to improve, and he was discharged with stable graft function. His immunosuppressive regimen was subsequently tailored to steroid and low-dose tacrolimus. In conclusion, we found that ischemic nephropathy could be reversed if properly managed, even in presence of other comorbidities.

Citation: Gheith O, et al. Reversible Ischemic Nephropathy in a Deceased Donor Renal Transplant Recipient With BK Nephropathy. Reversible Ischemic Nephropathy in a Deceased Donor Renal Transplant Recipient With BK Nephropathy. 2022; 20:132-135. doi: 10.6002/ect.MESOT2021.P64

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35384823/
