PMID: 35399884
Title: Sacral dural arteriovenous fistula of the filum terminale coexisting with partially thrombosed filum vein: A case report and literature review.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Filum terminale arteriovenous fistulas (FTAVFs) are rare and usually classified as intradural ventral AVFs or Type IVa perimedullary fistulas, located on the pia surface along the course of filum terminale internum (FTI). We report an extremely rare case of sacral dural arteriovenous fistula of the FT. We also review the occurrence of FTAVFs in the sacral region.
CASE DESCRIPTION: A 64-year-old man presented with progressive weakness of the lower extremities for 3 months and bowel/bladder dysfunction following long history of back pain radiating to both legs. Magnetic resonance imaging of the lumbosacral and thoracic spine showed spinal cord congestion, extending from the conus medullaris to the level of T3, and partial thrombosis within the abnormal tortuous and dilated flow void, running from the sacral area to conus medullaris. Further findings were compression fracture of L2 vertebra, Grade I degenerative spondylolisthesis at the level of L2-3, and L3-4, and spinal stenosis at L2-3, L3-4, and L4-5. Spinal angiography, maximum intensity projection reformatted image of angiographic computerized tomography, and three-dimensional reconstructed image clearly demonstrated dural AVF of the FT at the level of S2 supplied by bilateral lateral sacral and middle sacral arteries with cranial drainage to perimedullary vein through the enlarged vein of the filum. The patient was indirectly treated by transection of the filum terminale and the draining vein at the level of L5 rostral to the fistula.
CONCLUSION: Sacral DAVFs of the FT are extremely rare. In our case, the formation of fistula may cause by venous hypertension secondary to partial thrombosis within the filum vein, probably resulting from long-standing spinal canal stenosis. Sacral FTAVFs may be found on the pia surface of the terminal FTI, dural component at the area of dural sac termination, or dural extension covering the filum terminale externum.

Citation: Iampreechakul P, et al. Sacral dural arteriovenous fistula of the filum terminale coexisting with partially thrombosed filum vein: A case report and literature review. Sacral dural arteriovenous fistula of the filum terminale coexisting with partially thrombosed filum vein: A case report and literature review. 2022; 13:78. doi: 10.25259/SNI_980_2021

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35399884/
