PMID: 35399217
Title: Evaluation of the haematinic, antioxidant and anti-atherosclerotic potential of Momordica charantia in cholesterol-fed experimental rats.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Momordica charantia is popularly used in folk medicine in the management of hyperlipidemia and atherosclerosis.
PURPOSE: To evaluate the anti-atherosclerotic potential of M. charantia as well as its haematinic and antioxidant potential.
METHODS: Seventy-two experimental rats were randomly assigned into 9 groups (I-IX) of 8 rats each. Group I (control), was given 1 ml distilled water; II received 250 mg/kg. M. charantia; III received 500 mg/kg M. charantia; IV was administered 100 mg/kg of Atorvastatin only; V was administered 30 mg/kg of cholesterol dissolved in coconut oil; VI was administered with 250 mg/kg of M. charantia plus 30 mg/kg of cholesterol. VII was treated with 500 mg/kg of M. charantia plus 30 mg/kg of cholesterol solution; VIII was administered 30 mg/kg cholesterol solution plus Atorvastatin at a dose of 100 mg/kg; IX was administered 1 ml of coconut oil only. After 60 days of administration, blood and aorta samples were obtained from the rats. The samples were subjected to biochemical, haematological and histological analysis using standard methods.
RESULTS: Glutathione peroxidase (GPx), Malondialdehyde (MDA) and Catalase (CAT) activities were significantly higher in the treated groups as compared to the control groups. There were significant increases in the monocyte counts of the groups given low dose (250 mg/kg) of the extract (LDMC), high dose (500 mg/kg) of the extract (HDMC), as well as atorvastatin. The mean corpuscular volume (MCV) and mean corpuscular haemoglobin (MCH) of the test groups administered were significantly higher than that of the control group. However, only the group administered with cholesterol plus HDMC showed significantly lower mean corpuscular haemoglobin concentration (MCHC) than that of the control group. Histological sections of the aorta show degeneration of the internal elastic lamina in the group fed with the diet only as well as vascular ulceration and stenosis in the aorta and heavy perivascular infiltrates of inflammatory cells. These alterations were however not visible in the groups administered with the extracts, as well as atorvastatin.
CONCLUSION: Our findings show the possible anti-atherosclerotic potential of the extract, which could be compared to that of the standard drug (atorvastatin).

Citation: Innih SO, et al. Evaluation of the haematinic, antioxidant and anti-atherosclerotic potential of Momordica charantia in cholesterol-fed experimental rats. Evaluation of the haematinic, antioxidant and anti-atherosclerotic potential of Momordica charantia in cholesterol-fed experimental rats. 2022; 9:611-618. doi: 10.1016/j.toxrep.2022.03.042

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35399217/
