PMID: 35397552
Title: The role of neutrophil elastase in aortic valve calcification.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Calcific aortic valve disease (CAVD) is the most commonly valvular disease in the western countries initiated by inflammation and abnormal calcium deposition. Currently, there is no clinical drug for CAVD. Neutrophil elastase (NE) plays a causal role in inflammation and participates actively in cardiovascular diseases. However, the effect of NE on valve calcification remains unclear. So we next explore whether it is involved in valve calcification and the molecular mechanisms involved.
METHODS: NE expression and activity in calcific aortic valve stenosis (CAVD) patients (n = 58) and healthy patients (n = 30) were measured by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA), western blot and immunohistochemistry (IHC). Porcine aortic valve interstitial cells (pVICs) were isolated and used in vitro expriments. The effects of NE on pVICs inflammation, apoptosis and calcification were detected by TUNEL assay, MTT assay, reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) and western blot. The effects of NE knockdown and NE activity inhibitor Alvelestat on pVICs inflammation, apoptosis and calcification under osteogenic medium induction were also detected by RT-PCR, western blot, alkaline phosphatase staining and alizarin red staining. Changes of Intracellular signaling pathways after NE treatment were measured by western blot. Apolipoprotein E-/- (APOE-/-) mice were employed in this study to establish the important role of Alvelestat in valve calcification. HE was used to detected the thickness of valve. IHC was used to detected the NE and α-SMA expression in APOE-/- mice. Echocardiography was employed to assess the heat function of APOE-/- mice.
RESULTS: The level and activity of NE were evaluated in patients with CAVD and calcified valve tissues. NE promoted inflammation, apoptosis and phenotype transition in pVICs in the presence or absence of osteogenic medium. Under osteogenic medium induction, NE silencing or NE inhibitor Alvelestat both suppressed the osteogenic differentiation of pVICs. Mechanically, NE played its role in promoting osteogenic differentiation of pVICs by activating the NF-κB and AKT signaling pathway. Alvelestat alleviated valve thickening and decreased the expression of NE and α-SMA in western diet-induced APOE-/- mice. Alvelestat also reduced NE activity and partially improved the heart function of APOE-/-mice.
CONCLUSIONS: Collectively, NE is highly involved in the pathogenesis of valve calcification. Targeting NE such as Alvelestat may be a potential treatment for CAVD.

Citation: Liu Y, et al. The role of neutrophil elastase in aortic valve calcification. The role of neutrophil elastase in aortic valve calcification. 2022; 20:167. doi: 10.1186/s12967-022-03363-1

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35397552/
