PMID: 35394457
Title: Exploring experiences associated with aortic stenosis diagnosis, treatment and life impact among middle-aged and older adults.

Abstract: BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: Although multiple studies have examined the clinical aspects of diagnosis, treatment, and management of patients with aortic stenosis (AS), limited data exist regarding patient experiences related to symptoms, diagnosis, treatment, and personal impacts of living with AS.
METHODOLOGY: Adults aged ≥40 years diagnosed with AS were recruited and separated into three cohorts: medically managed, surgical aortic valve replacement (SAVR), and transcatheter aortic valve implantation (TAVI). Forty-five semi-structured interviews were conducted (15 per treatment group) via teleconference using open-ended questions and probes. Interview recordings were transcribed, and inductive thematic analyses were conducted.
RESULTS: The majority of participants were male (55.6%), White (95.6%), and non-Hispanic (93.3%). Participants noting longer times to diagnosis also reported mild symptom onset and experiences of misdiagnoses. Participants described a strong reliance on their health care professionals (HCPs) to guide them through their treatment decisions, which were influenced by the effects of anticoagulation, future valve interventions, and recovery. Medically managed participants reported having to make lifestyle modifications to manage symptoms, while participants who underwent TAVI or SAVR reported positive sentiments in their ability to return to normal life following their treatment.
CONCLUSIONS AND IMPLICATIONS: Due to the varied experiences of AS patients, there is a need to improve patient resources to advance patient understanding and facilitate informed treatment decisions. Reported experiences also indicate a need for additional HCP education on early referral to a multidisciplinary heart valve team.

Citation: Picou K, et al. Exploring experiences associated with aortic stenosis diagnosis, treatment and life impact among middle-aged and older adults. Exploring experiences associated with aortic stenosis diagnosis, treatment and life impact among middle-aged and older adults. 2022; 34:748-754. doi: 10.1097/JXX.0000000000000714

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35394457/
