PMID: 35393653
Title: Diagnosis, management, and outcome of urethral obstruction secondary to the capsule associated with the artificial urethral sphincter device.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Urethral obstruction secondary to artificial urethral sphincter (AUS) implantation is a recognized complication in dogs. However, urethral obstruction secondary to AUS-associated capsule formation has been described rarely.
HYPOTHESIS: Describe clinical and diagnostic findings, management, and outcome in 6 dogs with urethral obstruction secondary to AUS-associated capsule formation.
ANIMALS: Six client-owned dogs.
METHODS: Retrospective study. Medical records between January 1, 2010, and June 30, 2021, were reviewed to identify dogs with urethral obstruction associated with the AUS device.
RESULTS: The AUS device was implanted a median of 884 days (range, 20-2457 days) before presentation for urethral obstruction. Median age at time of urethral obstruction was 4.7 years (range, 3.1-8.7 years). Clinical signs at the time of urethral obstruction were stranguria (n = 4), pollakiuria (3), weak urine stream (2), and worsened urinary incontinence (1). In all dogs, the urethra was noted to be stenotic during urethroscopy and positive contrast cystourethrography. All dogs underwent surgery, and a fibrous capsule associated with the AUS was found to be causing urethral stenosis. Resolution of urethral obstruction occurred in all dogs after transection or removal of the capsule. Positive bacterial cultures were obtained from the capsule, AUS, or both in all dogs. Recurrence of urethral obstruction had not occurred in any dog at the time of follow-up.
CONCLUSIONS AND CLINICAL IMPORTANCE: Urethral obstruction secondary to capsule formation is an uncommon but clinically important complication associated with use of the AUS. Continued investigation is needed to evaluate this complication more thoroughly, and its possible association with infection.

Citation: Kopecny L, et al. Diagnosis, management, and outcome of urethral obstruction secondary to the capsule associated with the artificial urethral sphincter device. Diagnosis, management, and outcome of urethral obstruction secondary to the capsule associated with the artificial urethral sphincter device. 2022; 36:1016-1023. doi: 10.1111/jvim.16399

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35393653/
