PMID: 35402559
Title: Dysbiosis of Gut Microbiota and Metabolite Phenylacetylglutamine in Coronary Artery Disease Patients With Stent Stenosis.

Abstract: INTRODUCTION: Dysbiotic gut microbiota (GM) plays a regulatory role during the pathogenesis of several cardiovascular diseases, including atherosclerosis. GM-derived metabolite phenylacetylglutamine (PAGln) enhances platelet responsiveness and thrombosis potential, thereby inducing major adverse cardiovascular events. However, the role of GM and microbial metabolite PAGln in the pathogenesis of in-stent stenosis remains unknown.
METHODS: 16S rRNA sequencing was performed on fecal samples in 103 coronary artery disease (CAD) patients, including 35 individuals with in-stent patency (control), 32 individuals with in-stent hyperplasia (ISH), and 36 subjects with in-stent stenosis (ISS), and the levels of plasma PAGln were evaluated by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay.
RESULTS: The results revealed significantly enhanced microbial diversity and disrupted composition, such as enrichment of Roseburia, Blautia, and Ruminococcus, were observed in CAD patients with in-stent stenosis. The imbalance of microbial function related to PAGln synthesis and elevated plasma GM-derived metabolite PAGln levels was detected in CAD patients with in-stent stenosis. The GM-dependent diagnostic model could identify CAD patients with in-stent stenosis.
CONCLUSION: The current study revealed the disordered signature, altered functions, and potential diagnostic ability of GM in CAD patients with in-stent hyperplasia and stenosis. Enhanced microbiota-derived PAGln synthesis-related functions and elevated plasma PAGln levels were associated with in-stent stenosis and hyperplasia in CAD patients. Thus, an intervention targeting gut microbes may be a promising strategy to prevent stent stenosis in patients with CAD.

Citation: Fang C, et al. Dysbiosis of Gut Microbiota and Metabolite Phenylacetylglutamine in Coronary Artery Disease Patients With Stent Stenosis. Dysbiosis of Gut Microbiota and Metabolite Phenylacetylglutamine in Coronary Artery Disease Patients With Stent Stenosis. 2022; 9:832092. doi: 10.3389/fcvm.2022.832092

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35402559/
