PMID: 35406502
Title: Endoscopic Ultrasound Plus Endoscopic Retrograde Cholangiopancreatography Based Tissue Sampling for Diagnosis of Proximal and Distal Biliary Stenosis Due to Cholangiocarcinoma: Results from a Retrospective Single-Center Study.

Abstract: Differentiating between benign and malignant biliary stenosis (BS) is challenging, where tissue diagnosis plays a crucial role. Endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography (ERCP)-based tissue sampling and endoscopic ultrasound (EUS) with fine-needle aspiration (FNA) or biopsy (FNB) are used to obtain tissue specimens from BS. The aim of this retrospective study was to evaluate the diagnostic yield of EUS-FNA/B plus ERCP with brushing or forceps biopsy in BS. All endoscopic procedures performed in patients with BS at our gastroenterology unit were reviewed. The gold standard for diagnosis was histopathology of surgical specimens or the progression of the malignancy at radiological or clinical follow-up. A total of 70 endoscopic procedures were performed in 51 patients with BS. Final endoscopic diagnosis was reached in 96% of the patients and was malignant in 61.7% and benign in 38.3% of cases. Sensitivity, specificity, and diagnostic accuracy were 73.9%, 100%, and 80%, respectively, for EUS-FNA/B; 66.7%, 100%, and 82.5% for ERCP; and 83.3%, 100%, and 87.5% for both procedures carried out in the same session. The combination of EUS and ERCP tissue sampling seems to increase diagnostic accuracy in defining the etiology of BS. Performing both procedures in a single session reduces the time required for diagnostic work-up and optimizes resources.

Citation: Troncone E, et al. Endoscopic Ultrasound Plus Endoscopic Retrograde Cholangiopancreatography Based Tissue Sampling for Diagnosis of Proximal and Distal Biliary Stenosis Due to Cholangiocarcinoma: Results from a Retrospective Single-Center Study. Endoscopic Ultrasound Plus Endoscopic Retrograde Cholangiopancreatography Based Tissue Sampling for Diagnosis of Proximal and Distal Biliary Stenosis Due to Cholangiocarcinoma: Results from a Retrospective Single-Center Study. 2022; 14:(unknown pages). doi: 10.3390/cancers14071730

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35406502/
