PMID: 35402413
Title: Photooxidation and Pentagalloyl Glucose Cross-Linking Improves the Performance of Decellularized Small-Diameter Vascular Xenograft In Vivo.

Abstract: Small-diameter vascular grafts have a significant need in peripheral vascular surgery and procedures of coronary artery bypass graft (CABG); however, autografts are not always available, synthetic grafts perform poorly, and allografts and xenografts dilate, calcify, and induce inflammation after implantation. We hypothesized that cross-linking of decellularized xenogeneic vascular grafts would improve the mechanical properties and biocompatibility and reduce inflammation, degradation, and calcification in vivo. To test this hypothesis, the bovine internal mammary artery (BIMA) was decellularized by detergents and ribozymes with sonication and perfusion. Photooxidation and pentagalloyl glucose (PGG) were used to cross-link the collagen and elastin fibers of decellularized xenografts. Modified grafts' characteristics and biocompatibility were studied in vitro and in vivo; the grafts were implanted as transposition grafts in the subcutaneous of rats and the abdominal aorta of rabbits. The decellularized grafts were cross-linked by photooxidation and PGG, which improved the grafts' biomechanical properties and biocompatibility, prevented elastic fibers from early degradation, and reduced inflammation and calcification in vivo. Short-term aortic implants in the rabbits showed collagen regeneration and differentiation of host smooth muscle cells. No occlusion and stenosis occurred due to remodeling and stabilization of the neointima. A good patency rate (100%) was maintained. Notably, implantation of non-treated grafts exhibited marked thrombosis, an inflammatory response, calcification, and elastin degeneration. Thus, photooxidation and PGG cross-linking are potential tools for improving grafts' biological performance within decellularized small-diameter vascular xenografts.

Citation: Liu Y, et al. Photooxidation and Pentagalloyl Glucose Cross-Linking Improves the Performance of Decellularized Small-Diameter Vascular Xenograft In Vivo. Photooxidation and Pentagalloyl Glucose Cross-Linking Improves the Performance of Decellularized Small-Diameter Vascular Xenograft In Vivo. 2022; 10:816513. doi: 10.3389/fbioe.2022.816513

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35402413/
