PMID: 35402418
Title: Evaluation of Computational Methodologies for Accurate Prediction of Wall Shear Stress and Turbulence Parameters in a Patient-Specific Aorta.

Abstract: Background: Recent studies suggest that blood flow in main arteries is intrinsically disturbed, even under healthy conditions. Despite this, many computational fluid dynamics (CFD) analyses of aortic haemodynamics make the assumption of laminar flow, and best practices surrounding appropriate modelling choices are lacking. This study aims to address this gap by evaluating different modelling and post-processing approaches in simulations of a patient-specific aorta. Methods: Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and 4D flow MRI from a patient with aortic valve stenosis were used to reconstruct the aortic geometry and derive patient-specific inlet and outlet boundary conditions. Three different computational approaches were considered based on assumed laminar or assumed disturbed flow states including low-resolution laminar (LR-Laminar), high-resolution laminar (HR-Laminar) and large-eddy simulation (LES). Each simulation was ran for 30 cardiac cycles and post-processing was conducted on either the final cardiac cycle, or using a phase-averaged approach which utilised all 30 simulated cycles. Model capabilities were evaluated in terms of mean and turbulence-based parameters. Results: All simulation types, regardless of post-processing approach could correctly predict velocity values and flow patterns throughout the aorta. Lower resolution simulations could not accurately predict gradient-derived parameters including wall shear stress and viscous energy loss (largest differences up to 44.6% and 130.3%, respectively), although phase-averaging these parameters improved predictions. The HR-Laminar simulation produced more comparable results to LES with largest differences in wall shear stress and viscous energy loss parameters up to 5.1% and 11.6%, respectively. Laminar-based parameters were better estimated than turbulence-based parameters. Conclusion: Our findings suggest that well-resolved laminar simulations can accurately predict many laminar-based parameters in disturbed flows, but there is no clear benefit to running a HR-Laminar simulation over an LES simulation based on their comparable computational cost. Additionally, post-processing "typical" laminar simulation results with a phase-averaged approach is a simple and cost-effective way to improve accuracy of lower-resolution simulation results.

Citation: Manchester EL, et al. Evaluation of Computational Methodologies for Accurate Prediction of Wall Shear Stress and Turbulence Parameters in a Patient-Specific Aorta. Evaluation of Computational Methodologies for Accurate Prediction of Wall Shear Stress and Turbulence Parameters in a Patient-Specific Aorta. 2022; 10:836611. doi: 10.3389/fbioe.2022.836611

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35402418/
