PMID: 35411640
Title: Far-infrared radiation alleviates cisplatin-induced vascular damage and impaired circulation via activation of HIF-1α.

Abstract: Severe vascular damage and complications are often observed in cancer patients during treatment with chemotherapeutic drugs such as cisplatin. Thus, development of potential options to ameliorate the vascular side effects is urgently needed. In this study, the effects and the underlying mechanisms of far-infrared radiation (FIR) on cisplatin-induced vascular injury and endothelial cytotoxicity/dysfunction in mice and human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVECs) were investigated. An important finding is that the severe vascular stenosis and poor blood flow seen in cisplatin-treated mice were greatly mitigated by FIR irradiation (30 minutes/day) for 1-3 days. Moreover, FIR markedly increased the levels of phosphorylation of PI3K and Akt, and VEGF secretion, as well as the expression and the activity of hypoxia-inducible factor 1α (HIF-1α) in cisplatin-treated HUVECs in a promyelocytic leukemia zinc finger protein (PLZF)-dependent manner. However, FIR-stimulated endothelial angiogenesis and VEGF release were significantly diminished by transfection with HIF-1α siRNA. We also confirmed that HIF-1α, PI3K, and PLZF contribute to the inhibitory effect of FIR on cisplatin-induced apoptosis in HUVECs. Notably, FIR did not affect the anticancer activity and the HIF-1α/VEGF cascade in cisplatin-treated cancer cells under normoxic or hypoxic condition, indicating that the actions of FIR may specifically target endothelial cells. It is the first study to demonstrate that FIR effectively attenuates cisplatin-induced vascular damage and impaired angiogenesis through activation of HIF-1α-dependent processes via regulation of PLZF and PI3K/Akt. Taken together, cotreatment with the noninvasive and easily performed FIR has a therapeutic potential to prevent the pathogenesis of vascular complications in cancer patients during cisplatin treatment.

Citation: Chen CH, et al. Far-infrared radiation alleviates cisplatin-induced vascular damage and impaired circulation via activation of HIF-1α. Far-infrared radiation alleviates cisplatin-induced vascular damage and impaired circulation via activation of HIF-1α. 2022; 113:2194-2206. doi: 10.1111/cas.15371

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35411640/
