PMID: 35417350
Title: Different Time-Frequency Distribution Patterns of Somatosensory Evoked Potentials in Dual- and Single-Level Spinal Cord Compression.

Abstract: Among patients with cervical myelopathy, the most common level of stenosis at spinal cord of all ages was reported to be between cervical levels C5-6. Previous studies found that time-frequency components (TFCs) of somatosensory evoked potentials (SEPs) possess location information of spinal cord injury (SCI) in single-level deficits in the spinal cord. However, the clinical reality is that there are multiple compressions at multiple spinal cord segments. This study proposed a new algorithm to differentiate distribution patterns of SEP TFCs between the dual-level compression and the corresponding single-level compression, which is potential in providing precise diagnosis of cervical myelopathy. In the present animal study, a group of rats with dual-level compressive (C5+6) injury to cervical spinal cord was investigated. SEPs were collected at 2 weeks after surgery, while SEP TFCs were calculated. The SEP TFCs under dual-level compression were compared to an existent dataset with one sham control group and three single level compression groups at C4, C5, C6. Behavioral evaluation showed very similar scale of injury severity between individual rats, while histology evaluation confirmed the precise location of injury. According to time-frequency distribution patterns, it showed that the middle-energy components of dual-level showed similar patterns as that of each single-level group. In addition, the low-energy components of the dual-level C5+6 group had the highest correlation with C5 (R = 0.3423, p < 0.01) and C6 (R = 0.4000, p < 0.01) groups, but much lower with C4 group (R = 0.1071, p = 0.012). These results indicated that SEP TFCs components possess information regarding the location of neurological lesion after spinal cord compression. It preliminarily demonstrated that SEP TFCs are likely a useful measure to provide location information of neurological lesions after compression SCI.

Citation: Cui H, et al. Different Time-Frequency Distribution Patterns of Somatosensory Evoked Potentials in Dual- and Single-Level Spinal Cord Compression. Different Time-Frequency Distribution Patterns of Somatosensory Evoked Potentials in Dual- and Single-Level Spinal Cord Compression. 2022; 30:1052-1059. doi: 10.1109/TNSRE.2022.3167260

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35417350/
