PMID: 35421009
Title: Transanal Minimally Invasive Surgery for Rectal Anastomotic Stenosis After Colorectal Cancer Surgery.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Anastomotic stenosis is a common complication of colorectal cancer surgery with anastomosis. Transanal minimally invasive surgery is a novel approach to the treatment of anastomotic stenosis.
OBJECTIVE: This study aimed to evaluate the efficacy and safety of transanal minimally invasive surgery for anastomotic stenosis treatment.
DESIGN: This was a retrospective study.
SETTINGS: This study was conducted at a comprehensive cancer center.
PATIENTS: This study included patients with rectal anastomotic stenosis who after undergoing colorectal surgery were admitted to the Sir Run Run Shaw Hospital between September 2017 and June 2019.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: The primary outcome was the operative success rate. The secondary outcomes were intraoperative variables, postoperative complications, stoma closure conditions, and stenosis recurrence risks.
RESULTS: Nine patients, aged 52 to 80 years, with a history of colorectal cancer with end-to-end anastomosis underwent transanal minimally invasive surgery for anastomotic stenosis. The distance between the stenosis and the anal verge ranged from 5 to 12 cm. The mean stenosis diameter was 0.3 cm. Four patients had completely obstructed rectal lumens. Eight of 9 patients successfully underwent transanal minimally invasive surgery radial incision and cutting. The average operation time was 50 minutes. After the procedure, 1 patient had symptomatic procedure-associated perforations but recovered with conservative treatment. No perioperative mortality occurred. One patient underwent transverse colostomy 1 month after transanal minimally invasive surgery because of proximal colon ischemia induced by primary rectal surgery. Eight patients underwent protective loop ileostomy. After transanal minimally invasive surgery, stoma closure was performed in 88% of patients with no stenosis recurrence or obstruction at follow-up (21-42 mo).
LIMITATIONS: This study was limited by its small sample size and single-center design.
CONCLUSIONS: Transanal minimally invasive surgery provides an excellent operative field, good maneuverability, and versatile instrumentation and is a safe and effective treatment for rectal anastomotic stenosis, especially for severe fibrotic stenosis or complete obstruction. See Dynamic Article Video at http://links.lww.com/DCR/B965 .

Citation: Zhou W, et al. Transanal Minimally Invasive Surgery for Rectal Anastomotic Stenosis After Colorectal Cancer Surgery. Transanal Minimally Invasive Surgery for Rectal Anastomotic Stenosis After Colorectal Cancer Surgery. 2022; 65:1062-1068. doi: 10.1097/DCR.0000000000002361

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35421009/
