PMID: 35425992
Title: Effect of cardioplegic arrest and reperfusion on left and right ventricular proteome/phosphoproteome in patients undergoing surgery for coronary or aortic valve disease.

Abstract: Our earlier work has shown inter‑disease and intra‑disease differences in the cardiac proteome between right (RV) and left (LV) ventricles of patients with aortic valve stenosis (AVS) or coronary artery disease (CAD). Whether disease remodeling also affects acute changes occuring in the proteome during surgical intervention is unknown. This study investigated the effects of cardioplegic arrest on cardiac proteins/phosphoproteins in LV and RV of CAD (n=6) and AVS (n=6) patients undergoing cardiac surgery. LV and RV biopsies were collected during surgery before ischemic cold blood cardioplegic arrest (pre) and 20 min after reperfusion (post). Tissues were snap frozen, proteins extracted, and the extracts were used for proteomic and phosphoproteomic analysis using Tandem Mass Tag (TMT) analysis. The results were analysed using QuickGO and Ingenuity Pathway Analysis softwares. For each comparision, our proteomic analysis identified more than 3,000 proteins which could be detected in both the pre and Post samples. Cardioplegic arrest and reperfusion were associated with significant differential expression of 24 (LV) and 120 (RV) proteins in the CAD patients, which were linked to mitochondrial function, inflammation and cardiac contraction. By contrast, AVS patients showed differential expression of only 3 LV proteins and 2 RV proteins, despite a significantly longer duration of ischaemic cardioplegic arrest. The relative expression of 41 phosphoproteins was significantly altered in CAD patients, with 18 phosphoproteins showing altered expression in AVS patients. Inflammatory pathways were implicated in the changes in phosphoprotein expression in both groups. Inter‑disease comparison for the same ventricular chamber at both timepoints revealed differences relating to inflammation and adrenergic and calcium signalling. In conclusion, the present study found that ischemic arrest and reperfusion trigger different changes in the proteomes and phosphoproteomes of LV and RV of CAD and AVS patients undergoing surgery, with markedly more changes in CAD patients despite a significantly shorter ischaemic period.

Citation: Abdul-Ghani S, et al. Effect of cardioplegic arrest and reperfusion on left and right ventricular proteome/phosphoproteome in patients undergoing surgery for coronary or aortic valve disease. Effect of cardioplegic arrest and reperfusion on left and right ventricular proteome/phosphoproteome in patients undergoing surgery for coronary or aortic valve disease. 2022; 49:(unknown pages). doi: 10.3892/ijmm.2022.5133

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35425992/
