PMID: 35449646
Title: A Case of Metastatic Basal Cell Carcinoma (BCC) With Spinal and Pulmonary Metastases Treated With Vismodegib, Sonedigib, and Radiotherapy.

Abstract: Basal cell carcinoma (BCC) is the most common malignancy worldwide and has one of the most favorable prognoses due to its tendency to remain local. Clinical presentation with rare distant metastases significantly increases morbidity and mortality. Historically, no effective therapies have existed for locally advanced or metastatic BCC. Recent research highlights the possibility of treating patients with advanced and metastatic BCC with hedgehog pathway inhibitors, such as vismodegib or sonedigib. We present the case of a 62-year-old male with a history of a large left shoulder lesion, which was diagnosed as a nodulocystic BCC following biopsy and histopathologic examination. The primary lesion was managed with surgical excision, and his ensuing metastatic disease was treated with vismodegib, sonedigib, tumor debulking, and radiation therapy. Magnetic resonance imaging and computed tomography of the chest revealed probable metastases to the apical segment of the left upper lobe and thoracic spine, leading to spinal stenosis and probable cause of the patient's ataxia and paresthesias. Due to the ability of BCCs to transform during metastasis, it is impossible to identify the nature of metastatic lesions (i.e., basaloid, squamous, or hybrid) without biopsy. In this case report, we review the etiologies, typical demographics, presentation patterns, and treatment regimens for metastatic BCC and the possibility of metastatic disease transforming to squamous or hybrid variants.

Citation: Samia AM, et al. A Case of Metastatic Basal Cell Carcinoma (BCC) With Spinal and Pulmonary Metastases Treated With Vismodegib, Sonedigib, and Radiotherapy. A Case of Metastatic Basal Cell Carcinoma (BCC) With Spinal and Pulmonary Metastases Treated With Vismodegib, Sonedigib, and Radiotherapy. 2022; 14:e23273. doi: 10.7759/cureus.23273

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35449646/
