PMID: 35449101
Title: Preservation of the left colic artery in modified laparoscopic anterior rectal resections without auxiliary abdominal incisions for transanal specimen retrieval.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Laparoscopic low anterior rectal resection is the most widely used surgical procedure for middle and low rectal cancer. The aim of this study was to investigate the feasibility and safety of the extracorporeal placement of the anvil in preserving the left colic artery in laparoscopic low anterior rectal resection without auxiliary incisions for transanal specimen retrieval in this research.
METHODS: Clinical data and follow-up data of patients undergoing laparoscopic low anterior rectal resection from January 2017 to October 2020 were collected. The resections were modified such that the resisting nail holder was extracorporeally placed for the transanal exenteration of the specimen without using auxiliary abdominal incisions while preserving the left colic artery. By analyzing the data of anastomotic stenosis, anastomotic bleeding and anastomotic fistulas after surgery, the advantages and disadvantages of this surgical method for patients were clarified.
RESULTS: A total of 22 patients were enrolled. Five of 22 patients simultaneously underwent double-barrel terminal ileostomy. The postoperative exhaust time was 2-7 (median, 3) days. Postoperative anastomotic bleeding occurred in one patient, postoperative anastomotic fistula occurred in four patients, and postoperative anastomotic stenosis occurred in six patients. There were four patients with postoperative distant metastasis, of which three had concomitant local recurrence. Seventeen patients had no obvious symptoms or signs of recurrent metastases during follow-up appointments, and one died of liver failure.
CONCLUSIONS: Modified laparoscopic low anterior rectal resection, which resects the specimen through anus eversion by inserting the anvil extracorporeally while preserving the left colic artery, is safe and feasible for patients with low rectal cancer.

Citation: Liu Y, et al. Preservation of the left colic artery in modified laparoscopic anterior rectal resections without auxiliary abdominal incisions for transanal specimen retrieval. Preservation of the left colic artery in modified laparoscopic anterior rectal resections without auxiliary abdominal incisions for transanal specimen retrieval. 2022; 22:148. doi: 10.1186/s12893-022-01593-0

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35449101/
