PMID: 35441102
Title: Analysing gait patterns in degenerative lumbar spine diseases: a literature review.

Abstract: OBJECTIVES: To collate the current state of knowledge and explore differences in the spatiotemporal gait patterns of degenerative lumbar spine diseases: lumbar spinal stenosis (LSS), lumbar disc herniation (LDH) and low back pain (LBP).
BACKGROUND: LBP is common presenting complaint with degenerative lumbar spine disease being a common cause. In particular, the gait patterns of LSS, LDH and mechanical-type (facetogenic and discogenic) LBP is not established.
METHODS: A search of the literature was conducted to determine the changes in spatial and temporal gait metrics involved with each type of degenerative lumbar spine disease. A search of databases including Medline, Embase and PubMed from their date of inception to April 18th, 2021 was performed to screen, review and identify relevant studies for qualitative synthesis. Seventeen relevant studies were identified for inclusion in the present review. Of these, 5 studies investigated gait patterns in LSS, 10 studies investigated LBP and 2 studies investigated LDH. Of these, 4 studies employed wearable accelerometry in LSS (2 studies) and LBP (2 studies).
CONCLUSIONS: Previous studies suggest degenerative diseases of the lumbar spine have unique patterns of gait deterioration. LSS is characterised by asymmetry and variability. Spatiotemporal gait deterioration in gait velocity, cadence with increased double-support duration and gait variability are distinguishing features in LDH. LBP involves marginal abnormalities in temporal and spatial gait metrics. Previous studies suggest degenerative diseases of the lumbar spine have unique patterns of gait deterioration. Gait asymmetry and variability, may be relevant metrics for distinguishing between the gait profiles of lumbar spine diseases.

Citation: Natarajan P, et al. Analysing gait patterns in degenerative lumbar spine diseases: a literature review. Analysing gait patterns in degenerative lumbar spine diseases: a literature review. 2022; 8:139-148. doi: 10.21037/jss-21-91

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35441102/
