PMID: 35451175
Title: Correlation of serum vascular endothelial growth factor and cardiovascular risk factors on collateral formation in patients with acute coronary artery syndrome.

Abstract: Coronary collaterals serve as an alternative source of blood flow in obstructive coronary heart disease. Coronary collateral development is induced by various angiogenic growth factors, including vascular endothelial growth factor-A (VEGF-A). Cardiovascular risk factors strongly associated with coronary artery disease include age, sex, elevated serum cholesterol, disturbed carbohydrate metabolism, and elevated blood pressure. A better understanding of the effects of these cardiovascular risk factors and serum VEGF-A level on collateral recruitment is necessary for a better prognosis in coronary artery diseases and new insight for further therapeutic promotion of coronary collaterals.220 consecutive patients undergoing coronary angiography with a mean age of 61 ± 9.83 were selected for the analysis. Two milliliters of blood were taken from the patients for analysis. The blood serum VEGF concentration was quantified via the ELISA method. Angiograms and other clinical reports were collected. Significant coronary artery disease was diagnosed in those with ≥ 70% of stenosis in at least one of the coronary arteries. The angiographic and clinical data were documented. The collateral grading was done according to the Rentrop Scoring system. The serum vascular endothelial growth factor level was correlated with the collateral score and cardiovascular risk factors like age, sex, type II diabetes, blood pressure, and cholesterol level. An increase in the level of the collateral score was noted with an increase in the level of VEGF in blood serum. A significant association was founded between serum VEGF level and cardiovascular risk factors on collateral formation in patients with diabetes and hypertension.

Citation: Balakrishnan S and B SK. Correlation of serum vascular endothelial growth factor and cardiovascular risk factors on collateral formation in patients with acute coronary artery syndrome. Correlation of serum vascular endothelial growth factor and cardiovascular risk factors on collateral formation in patients with acute coronary artery syndrome. 2022; 35:673-678. doi: 10.1002/ca.23890

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35451175/
