PMID: 35457662
Title: The Relation of Surgical Procedures and Diagnosis Groups to Unplanned Readmission in Spinal Neurosurgery: A Retrospective Single Center Study.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Unplanned readmission has gained increasing interest as a quality marker for inpatient care, as it is associated with patient mortality and higher economic costs. Spinal neurosurgery is characterized by a lack of epidemiologic readmission data. The aim of this study was to identify causes and predictors for unplanned readmissions related to index diagnoses and surgical procedures.
METHODS: In this study, from 2015 to 2017, spinal neurosurgical procedures were recorded for surgical and non-surgical treated patients. The main reasons for an unplanned readmission within 30 days following discharge were identified. Multivariate logarithmic regression revealed predictors of unplanned readmission.
RESULTS: A total of 1172 patient records were examined, of which 4.27% disclosed unplanned readmissions. Among the surgical patients, the readmission rate was 4.06%, mainly attributable to surgical site infections, while it was 5.06% for the non-surgical patients, attributable to uncontrolled pain. A night-time surgery presented as the independent predictive factor.
CONCLUSION: In the heterogeneous group of spinal neurosurgical patients, stratification into diagnostic groups is necessary for statistical analysis. Degenerative lumbar spinal stenosis and spinal abscesses are mainly affected by unplanned readmission. The surgical procedure dorsal root ganglion stimulation is an independent predictor of unplanned re-hospitalizations, as is the timing of surgery.

Citation: Sander C, et al. The Relation of Surgical Procedures and Diagnosis Groups to Unplanned Readmission in Spinal Neurosurgery: A Retrospective Single Center Study. The Relation of Surgical Procedures and Diagnosis Groups to Unplanned Readmission in Spinal Neurosurgery: A Retrospective Single Center Study. 2022; 19:(unknown pages). doi: 10.3390/ijerph19084795

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35457662/
