PMID: 35455712
Title: Integrating Coronary Plaque Information from CCTA by ML Predicts MACE in Patients with Suspected CAD.

Abstract: Conventional prognostic risk analysis in patients undergoing noninvasive imaging is based upon a limited selection of clinical and imaging findings, whereas machine learning (ML) algorithms include a greater number and complexity of variables. Therefore, this paper aimed to explore the predictive value of integrating coronary plaque information from coronary computed tomographic angiography (CCTA) with ML to predict major adverse cardiovascular events (MACEs) in patients with suspected coronary artery disease (CAD). Patients who underwent CCTA due to suspected coronary artery disease with a 30-month follow-up for MACEs were included. We collected demographic characteristics, cardiovascular risk factors, and information on coronary plaques by analyzing CCTA information (plaque length, plaque composition and coronary artery stenosis of 18 coronary artery segments, coronary dominance, myocardial bridge (MB), and patients with vulnerable plaque) and follow-up information (cardiac death, nonfatal myocardial infarction and unstable angina requiring hospitalization). An ML algorithm was used for survival analysis (CoxBoost). This analysis showed that chest symptoms, the stenosis severity of the proximal anterior descending branch, and the stenosis severity of the middle right coronary artery were among the top three variables in the ML model. After the 22nd month of follow-up, in the testing dataset, ML showed the largest C-index and AUC compared with Cox regression, SIS, SIS score + clinical factors, and clinical factors. The DCA of all the models showed that the net benefit of the ML model was the highest when the treatment threshold probability was between 1% and 9%. Integrating coronary plaque information from CCTA based on ML technology provides a feasible and superior method to assess prognosis in patients with suspected coronary artery disease over an approximately three-year period.

Citation: Dou G, et al. Integrating Coronary Plaque Information from CCTA by ML Predicts MACE in Patients with Suspected CAD. Integrating Coronary Plaque Information from CCTA by ML Predicts MACE in Patients with Suspected CAD. 2022; 12:(unknown pages). doi: 10.3390/jpm12040596

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35455712/
