PMID: 35453852
Title: Wellens' Syndrome from COVID-19 Infection Assessed by Enhanced Transthoracic Coronary Echo Doppler: A Case Report.

Abstract: Wellens' syndrome (WS) is a preinfarction state caused by a sub-occlusion of the proximal left anterior descending coronary artery (LAD). In this case report, for the first time, we describe how this syndrome can be caused by COVID-19 infection and, most importantly, that it can be assessed bedside by enhanced transthoracic coronary echo Doppler (E-Doppler TTE). This seasoned technique allows blood flow Doppler to be recorded in the coronaries and at the stenosis site but has never been tested in an acute setting. Two weeks after clinical recovery from bronchitis allegedly caused by COVID-19 infection on the basis of epidemiologic criteria (no swab performed during the acute phase but only during recovery, at which time it was negative), our patient developed typical angina for the first time, mainly during effort but also at rest. He was admitted to our tertiary center, where pharyngeal swabs tested positive for COVID-19. A typical EKG finding supporting WS prompted an assessment of the left main coronary artery (LMCA) and the whole LAD blood flow velocity by E-Doppler TTE. Localized high velocity (transtenotic velocity) (100 cm/s) was recorded in the proximal LAD, with the reference velocity being 20 cm/s. This indicated severe stenosis with 90% area narrowing according to the continuity equation, as confirmed by coronary angiography. During follow-up after successful stenting, E-Doppler TTE showed a decrease in the transtenotic acceleration, confirming stent patency and a normal coronary flow reserve (3.2) and illustrating a normal microcirculatory function. Conclusion: COVID infection can trigger a coronary syndrome like WS. E-Doppler TTE, an ionizing radiation-free method, allows safe and rapid bedside management of the syndrome. This new strategy can be pivotal in distinguishing true WS from pseudo-WS. In cases of pseudo-WS, coronary angiography can be avoided. If E-Doppler TTE confirms the stenosis and PCI (percutaneous coronary intervention) is performed, the same method can allow assessment over time of the precise residual stenosis after stenting and verify the microvasculature status by evaluating coronary flow reserve.

Citation: Caiati C, et al. Wellens' Syndrome from COVID-19 Infection Assessed by Enhanced Transthoracic Coronary Echo Doppler: A Case Report. Wellens' Syndrome from COVID-19 Infection Assessed by Enhanced Transthoracic Coronary Echo Doppler: A Case Report. 2022; 12:(unknown pages). doi: 10.3390/diagnostics12040804

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35453852/
