PMID: 35464518
Title: A Rare Presentation of Systolic Anterior Motion Occurring Eight Years After Mitral Valve Replacement.

Abstract: Systolic anterior motion (SAM) is the dynamic displacement of mitral valve leaflets anteriorly toward the left ventricular outflow tract (LVOT) during systole. SAM-like physiology has been reported to occur shortly after mitral valve replacement (MVR) surgery; occurrence beyond two years after surgery is very rare. A 55-year-old woman who had bioprosthetic MVR eight years earlier for non-rheumatic mitral stenosis presented to the emergency room with progressive dyspnea and sudden-onset chest pressure. Physical examination noted a grade 3/6 systolic murmur at the cardiac apex, a soft diastolic murmur at the left sternal border, and diffuse expiratory wheezing. B-type natriuretic peptide (BNP) was elevated (286 pg/mL). Transthoracic echocardiography (TTE) showed mitral regurgitation and severe aortic insufficiency; the mitral prosthesis was protruding into the LVOT, causing LVOT obstruction with a peak gradient of 16.3 mmHg and peak velocity of 2.0 m/s. Transesophageal echocardiography (TEE) confirmed severe bioprosthetic MV dysfunction, severe aortic regurgitation, and SAM-like physiology. Left cardiac catheterization showed normal coronaries. She underwent repeat MVR and aortic valve replacement. She was started on daily aspirin and warfarin post-operatively, then discharged home on post-operative day 10. During post-operative office visits, she reported no complications. SAM-like physiology was absent in a two-month follow-up TTE, with reduced LVOT peak gradient of 6.5 mmHg and peak velocity of 1.3 m/s. Dynamic SAM-induced LVOT obstruction could be asymptomatic or result in severe heart failure with 20% risk of sudden cardiac death. SAM may occur within days following MVR or may have a delayed presentation. Medical management, including beta-blockade, is the cornerstone of initial management, while structural damage to the prosthetic valve mandates repeating mitral valve replacement surgery. This case highlights the importance of long-term follow-up of patients after MVR to assess for SAM, which could occur with or without degenerative changes of the prosthetic valve.

Citation: Ogunleye OO, et al. A Rare Presentation of Systolic Anterior Motion Occurring Eight Years After Mitral Valve Replacement. A Rare Presentation of Systolic Anterior Motion Occurring Eight Years After Mitral Valve Replacement. 2022; 14:e23114. doi: 10.7759/cureus.23114

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35464518/
