PMID: 35461181
Title: Isolated sublingual hematoma post internal carotid artery stenting for internal carotid artery stenosis in high-risk patients as uncommon and rare misadventure: A case report and review of literature.

Abstract: INTRODUCTION AND IMPORTANCE: Isolated sublingual hematoma is a rare complication seen in trauma, severe uncontrolled hypertension, dental operations, bleeding diathesis, and the use of dual antiplatelet and anticoagulant agents. In advanced and neglected cases, a sublingual hematoma may interfere with the patient's airway, causing suffocation and fatal airway obstruction. Our objective was to present a case of iatrogenic isolated sublingual hematoma in a 70-year-old business man, heavy smoker with a history of hypertension. Furthermore, to report the literature review, and to organize treatment strategies to reduce the rate of progression of the hematoma. In addition to recommend or advice a strategic plan to prevent this complication during carotid stenting.
CASE PRESENTATION: This case report has been reported in line with the SCARE Criteria. We represented a case report of an iatrogenic isolated mild/moderate sublingual hematoma in a 70-year-old business man. This hematoma developed as one of the rare complications of endovascular internal carotid artery revascularization because of injury to the sublingual branch of the lingual artery during wire manipulations or its advancement. This hematoma was treated by conservative treatment without any intervention.
CLINICAL DISCUSSION: Immediately after internal carotid artery stenting procedure, the patient developed a sudden onset of painful swelling in the floor of the mouth. The hematoma showing ecchymotic submucosal swelling underneath the tongue in the floor of the mouth. If it became enlarged, it may push the tongue against the palate and blocking the airway, causing serious airway obstruction. Fortunately, the swelling is isolated (has no extension to any side) and limited to the root and middle third of the tongue but, not extending to its tip. Its development most probably due to injured atherosclerotic sublingual branch of the lingual artery during the procedure.
CONCLUSIONS: The first step in management should be prompt airway management. Conservative treatment took place without any further intervention. To date, there is no consensus about the management regarding the hematoma itself. Mostly, clinicians start with observation for spontaneous resolution. When conservative treatment is not appropriate, surgical intervention must be performed. However, electively secure the airway is the main objective for treatment.

Citation: Mousa A and Khalil BA. Isolated sublingual hematoma post internal carotid artery stenting for internal carotid artery stenosis in high-risk patients as uncommon and rare misadventure: A case report and review of literature. Isolated sublingual hematoma post internal carotid artery stenting for internal carotid artery stenosis in high-risk patients as uncommon and rare misadventure: A case report and review of literature. 2022; 94:107070. doi: 10.1016/j.ijscr.2022.107070

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35461181/
