PMID: 35463104
Title: Association of Serum Level and DNA Methylation Status of Brain-Derived Neurotrophic Factor with the Severity of Coronary Artery Disease.

Abstract: New investigations suggest a pivotal role of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) in cardiovascular homeostasis. However, no data could indicate the association between BDNF methylation status and the risk of coronary artery disease (CAD). The aim of the present study was to assess the association of BDNF methylation status and its serum level with the severity of CAD. According to the angiography report, a total of 84 non-diabetic CAD patients with at least 50% stenosis in one of the major coronary arteries were selected as the CAD group. For comparison, 62 angiographically proven non-CAD participants were selected as control. Additionally, subjects were categorized according to the Gensini Scoring system. Blood sample was used for genomic DNA isolation. Methylation status of the BDNF gene in exonic region was determined using the MS-PCR method and serum BDNF levels were measured with ELISA. BDNF gene methylation was significantly higher in the CAD group than in the non-CAD group. After adjustment for confounding factors, BDNF gene hypermethylation increases the risk of CAD in the total population (OR = 2.769; 95% CI, 1.033-7.423; P = 0.043). BDNF gene hypermethylation was higher in patients with severe CAD than patients with mild CAD. Additionally, the serum BDNF level was not different from non-diabetic CAD and control groups. Our findings indicate that BDNF hypermethylation was associated with an increased risk of CAD, which may help identify subjects being at the risk of developing CAD. In addition, BDNF hypermethylation shows a significant correlation with the severity of CAD.

Citation: Esmaeili F, et al. Association of Serum Level and DNA Methylation Status of Brain-Derived Neurotrophic Factor with the Severity of Coronary Artery Disease. Association of Serum Level and DNA Methylation Status of Brain-Derived Neurotrophic Factor with the Severity of Coronary Artery Disease. 2022; 37:159-168. doi: 10.1007/s12291-021-00974-1

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35463104/
