PMID: 35464689
Title: Retinal arterial macroaneurysms with supravalvular pulmonic stenosis syndrome can be associated with coronary and major systemic arterial disease.

Abstract: PURPOSE: To report novel life-threatening coronary and systemic arterial disease associated with Retinal Arterial Macroaneurysms with Supravalvular Pulmonic Stenosis (RAMSVPS) syndrome, previously known as Familial Retinal Arterial Macroaneurysms (FRAM).
OBSERVATIONS: A 29-years old woman with longstanding poor vision in her right eye presented with acute myocardial infarction and subclavian bruit. Her polyangiogram showed peculiar ostial coronary aneurysms, left anterior descending coronary artery stenosis, occlusion of the left subclavian artery, stenosis of both renal arteries, irregularities in the mesenteric artery and tapering of the aorta. Takayasu arteritis was initially presumed, however fundus examination revealed beading and macroaneurysms along major retinal arteries, intraretinal exudation and hemorrhages, retinal arterial sheathing and stenosis, Coats'-like features and submacular gliosis in the right eye, vitreous hemorrhage in the left eye, and persistent hyaloid artery remnant in both eyes. These features evoked RAMSVPS syndrome. Genetic testing identified the same homozygous IGFBP7 c.830-1G &gt; A mutation reported with RAMSVPS syndrome, rectifying the systemic diagnosis.
CONCLUSION AND IMPORTANCE: RAMSVPS syndrome can be associated with more life-threatening coronary and widespread major arterial disease than previously recognized. It is crucial for ophthalmologists to recognize RAMSVPS syndrome and refer patients for a thorough cardiovascular evaluation. Likewise, a careful retinal examination and the possibility of an IGFBP7 mutation should be considered in the setting of systemic arterial or cardiac disease.

Citation: Jomar DE, et al. Retinal arterial macroaneurysms with supravalvular pulmonic stenosis syndrome can be associated with coronary and major systemic arterial disease. Retinal arterial macroaneurysms with supravalvular pulmonic stenosis syndrome can be associated with coronary and major systemic arterial disease. 2022; 26:101514. doi: 10.1016/j.ajoc.2022.101514

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35464689/
