PMID: 35469515
Title: Comparison of microcatheter and pressure wire for venous sinus manometric evaluation of patients with idiopathic intracranial hypertension.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Venous sinus manometry performed by microcatheter to assess candidacy for venous sinus stenting in patients with idiopathic cranial pressure (IIH) can be tiring, time-consuming and unreliable. Pressure wire is widely used to measure coronary pressure and evaluate coronary stenosis severity, but venous sinus manometry using the pressure guide wire has only been reported in one case, and few studies have examined the accuracy of this approach.
OBJECTIVE: To compare venous manometry performed by microcatheter with by pressure wire under awake setting in patients with IIH.
METHODS: The manometry results of 30 patients with IIH were recorded by Rebar-27 microcatheter and a pressure wire under awake setting. The mean venous pressures (MVPs) and trans-stenosis pressure gradients were obtained and compared between microcatheter and pressure wire. Paired t-test) were used to evaluate the data between the two groups.
RESULTS: MVPs in superior sagittal sinus (SSS) and torcula were slightly higher with microcatheter, though without statistically significant differences (p > 0.05). MVPs in transverse sinus (TS) and sigmoid sinus (SS) were significantly higher with microcatheter (p < 0.05). Trans-stenotic pressure gradient with microcatheter was significantly higher than with pressure wire (p＜0.001).
CONCLUSIONS: Intracranial venous pressure measured with the microcatheter and pressure wire showed a moderate difference. Compared with the traditional microcatheter method，the pressure wire is safe, fast and effective method to identify the patient needing intervention.

Citation: Wang S, et al. Comparison of microcatheter and pressure wire for venous sinus manometric evaluation of patients with idiopathic intracranial hypertension. Comparison of microcatheter and pressure wire for venous sinus manometric evaluation of patients with idiopathic intracranial hypertension. 2023; 29:408-412. doi: 10.1177/15910199221096679

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35469515/
