PMID: 35463683
Title: The Relationship between Insomnia and Internal Carotid Artery Stenosis and Cognitive Dysfunction by Magnetic Sensitivity Weighted Imaging Based on Wireless Network Communication.

Abstract: The paper analyzes the detection of insomnia and carotid artery stenosis by magnetic sensitivity weighted imaging (SWI) based on radio communication and its relationship with cognitive dysfunction. A total of 148 patients with carotid artery stenosis and insomnia admitted to our hospital from January 2020 to June 2021 are selected. According to different detection methods, wireless communication combined with SWI group and conventional group are established respectively, with 74 cases in each group. The conventional group applies CT angiography (CTA) is in line with the intervention mode of patients complaining of sleep at night. In the wireless communication combined with SWI group, the sleep monitoring system of wireless communication combined with SWI detection method is used to observe the imaging detection rate, insomnia detection rate and diagnostic efficiency of the two groups. The differences of PSG index parameters, sleep quality (PSQI) score and cognitive function (MoCA) score of patients with different disease degrees are compared. Pearson correlation coefficient is used to analyze the correlation between PSQI score and MoCA score. SWI sequence scan based on wireless network communication has high efficiency in the diagnosis of carotid artery stenosis, and the sleep status of patients can be better understood by real-time monitoring of patients, which is of great significance for the follow-up development of effective diagnosis and treatment plans and recovery of patients' cognitive function, and worthy of clinical application.

Citation: Li D, et al. The Relationship between Insomnia and Internal Carotid Artery Stenosis and Cognitive Dysfunction by Magnetic Sensitivity Weighted Imaging Based on Wireless Network Communication. The Relationship between Insomnia and Internal Carotid Artery Stenosis and Cognitive Dysfunction by Magnetic Sensitivity Weighted Imaging Based on Wireless Network Communication. 2022; 2022:6056502. doi: 10.1155/2022/6056502

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35463683/
