PMID: 35469919
Title: Sortilin enhances secretion of apolipoprotein(a) through effects on apolipoprotein B secretion and promotes uptake of lipoprotein(a).

Abstract: Elevated plasma lipoprotein(a) (Lp(a)) is an independent, causal risk factor for atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease and calcific aortic valve stenosis. Lp(a) is formed in or on hepatocytes from successive noncovalent and covalent interactions between apo(a) and apoB, although the subcellular location of these interactions and the nature of the apoB-containing particle involved remain unclear. Sortilin, encoded by the SORT1 gene, modulates apoB secretion and LDL clearance. We used a HepG2 cell model to study the secretion kinetics of apo(a) and apoB. Overexpression of sortilin increased apo(a) secretion, while siRNA-mediated knockdown of sortilin expression correspondingly decreased apo(a) secretion. Sortilin binds LDL but not apo(a) or Lp(a), indicating that its effect on apo(a) secretion is likely indirect. Indeed, the effect was dependent on the ability of apo(a) to interact noncovalently with apoB. Overexpression of sortilin enhanced internalization of Lp(a), but not apo(a), by HepG2 cells, although neither sortilin knockdown in these cells or Sort1 deficiency in mice impacted Lp(a) uptake. We found several missense mutations in SORT1 in patients with extremely high Lp(a) levels; sortilin containing some of these mutations was more effective at promoting apo(a) secretion than WT sortilin, though no differences were found with respect to Lp(a) internalization. Our observations suggest that sortilin could play a role in determining plasma Lp(a) levels and corroborate in vivo human kinetic studies which imply that secretion of apo(a) and apoB are coupled, likely within the hepatocyte.

Citation: Clark JR, et al. Sortilin enhances secretion of apolipoprotein(a) through effects on apolipoprotein B secretion and promotes uptake of lipoprotein(a). Sortilin enhances secretion of apolipoprotein(a) through effects on apolipoprotein B secretion and promotes uptake of lipoprotein(a). 2022; 63:100216. doi: 10.1016/j.jlr.2022.100216

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35469919/
