PMID: 35461176
Title: Blunt renal trauma in ureteropelvic junction obstruction kidney: A case report.

Abstract: INTRODUCTION: Kidneys are one of the most commonly affected retroperitoneal organ in trauma cases despite its relatively well-protected location. Renal trauma occurs in 80-95% of urogenital trauma cases and 8-10% of abdominal blunt trauma. Renal trauma in hydronephrotic kidney due to ureteropelvic junction obstruction (UPJO) is a rare entity, despite of high risk of trauma urogenital due to large size and thin parenchyma. In this case we reported blunt renal injury with a congenital abnormality of the kidney.
CASE PRESENTATION: We present a case of abdominal blunt trauma due to motor-vehicle accident in a 23 year old male patient. The patient complaint of visible hematuria since 1 day after falling from motorcycle with right flank hit the road, accompanied with right flank pain. Vital signs were within normal limits. Physical examinations reveal distention of right flank with no sign of peritonitis. Supporting examination with FAST ultrasound revealed grade 4 hydronephrosis with internal echo, suspected blood accumulation inside the kidney. Abdominal CT scan revealed grade IV hydronephrosis of right kidney with thin parenchyma. We performed laparotomy and renal exploration, intraoperatively we found multiple laceration of the kidney into pelvicalyceal system (AAST grade IV) with hematoma inside the right kidney and UPJ stenosis (about 5 cm). We decided to perform right nephrectomy despite of grade IV injury with consideration of poor renal function, long stenosis segment and thin renal parenchyma will cause many complications in the future for the patient.
CONCLUSION: Renal injury in UPJO kidney is a rare entity despite of high risk of injury in this population. Management of renal injury in this population might be not consistent with guideline for renal trauma, and clinical judgement from the physician plays an important role to provide the best treatment for this patient.

Citation: Kurniawan A and Adi K. Blunt renal trauma in ureteropelvic junction obstruction kidney: A case report. Blunt renal trauma in ureteropelvic junction obstruction kidney: A case report. 2022; 94:107005. doi: 10.1016/j.ijscr.2022.107005

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35461176/
