PMID: 35474677
Title: Transcatheter aortic valve replacement in a patient with critical bicuspid aortic stenosis and cardiogenic shock: case report.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Cardiogenic shock (CS) is associated with significant morbidity and mortality (27-51%). Little is known about the feasibility and safety of emergency transcatheter aortic valve replacement (TAVR) for critical aortic stenosis (AS) in acute myocardial infarction (AMI) with CS.
CASE SUMMARY: A 57-year-old male with history of tobacco dependence and diabetes mellitus presented with acute posterior ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction and CS. The patient initially underwent successful primary percutaneous intervention to an anomalous circumflex artery coming off the right cusp. It was noted to have advanced CS out of proportion to his coronary anatomy. Echocardiographic assessment noted critical AS. Heart team decided to perform percutaneous aortic balloon valvuloplasty under support of extracorporeal membrane oxygenation. Percutaneous aortic balloon valvuloplasty was performed and was complicated by severe aortic regurgitation (AR). A balloon-expandable transcatheter heart valve was then placed with resolution of AR and stabilization of the patient. Then, the patient was subsequently decannulated within a week then was able to go home after 47 days (32 days intensive care unit). His course was notable for a minor stroke due to initial period of hypotension and CS. He was extubated and remained hospitalized for several weeks participating in rehabilitation. Follow-up echo showed a well-seated and functioning transcatheter heart valve. His left ventricular systolic function improved from 21% to 45%.
CONCLUSION: Emergency TAVR is feasible and can be performed in a patient with AMI and CS. Early initiation of mechanical support allowed the patient to receive definitive treatment. The multidisciplinary heart team is essential and reflected in the ultimate outcome of our patient.

Citation: El Tahlawy W, et al. Transcatheter aortic valve replacement in a patient with critical bicuspid aortic stenosis and cardiogenic shock: case report. Transcatheter aortic valve replacement in a patient with critical bicuspid aortic stenosis and cardiogenic shock: case report. 2022; 6:ytac101. doi: 10.1093/ehjcr/ytac101

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35474677/
