PMID: 35477194
Title: [Treatment of post-intensive care tracheal stenosis after previous covid-19 pneumonia].

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: To analyze postoperative outcomes and perioperative management of patients with post-intensive care tracheal stenosis and previous COVID-19 pneumonia.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: There were 8 patients with post-intensive care tracheal stenosis and previous COVID-19 pneumonia aged 34-61 years between January 2021 and April 2021. Lung damage CT-3 was observed in 2 (25%) patients, CT-4 - in 5 (62.5%) patients. In one case, COVID-19 pneumonia with lung damage CT-2 joined to acute cerebrovascular accident. Post-tracheostomy stenosis was detected in 7 (87.5%) cases, post-intubation stenosis - in 1 patient. Duration of invasive mechanical ventilation ranged from 5 to 130 days. In 75% of cases, tracheal stenosis was localized in the larynx and cervical trachea. Two patients admitted with tracheostomy. In one case, an extended tracheal stenosis was combined with atresia of infraglottic part of the larynx. One patient had tracheal stenosis combined with tracheoesophageal fistula (TEF). Length of tracheal stenosis was 15-45 mm. Tracheomalacia was observed in 4 (50%) patients. All patients had severe concomitant diseases.
RESULTS: To restore airway patency, we used circular tracheal resection with anastomosis, laryngotracheoplasty and endoscopic methods. Tracheal resection combined with TEF required circular tracheal resection with disconnection of fistula. Adequate breathing through the natural airways was restored in all patients. There was no postoperative mortality. Three patients with baseline tracheal stenosis had favorable postoperative outcomes after circular tracheal resection. Four patients are at the final stage of treatment after laryngotracheoplasty and tracheal stenting.
CONCLUSION: Patients after invasive mechanical ventilation for COVID-19 pneumonia are at high risk of cicatricial tracheal stenosis and require follow-up. Circular tracheal resection ensures early rehabilitation and favorable functional results. Laryngotracheoplasty is preferred if circular tracheal resection is impossible. This procedure ensures adequate debridement of tracheobronchial tree and respiratory support. Endoscopic measures are an alternative for open surgery, especially for intrathoracic tracheal stenosis and intractable tracheobronchitis.

Citation: Topolnitskiy EB, et al. [Treatment of post-intensive care tracheal stenosis after previous covid-19 pneumonia]. [Treatment of post-intensive care tracheal stenosis after previous covid-19 pneumonia]. 2022; (unknown volume):5-10. doi: 10.17116/hirurgia20220415

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35477194/
