PMID: 35477201
Title: [Treatment of complications following esophageal electrochemical burns by batteries in children].

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: To determine the optimal treatment of patients with complications of esophageal electrochemical burns by batteries.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: There were 75 children with esophageal electrochemical burns by batteries between 2010 and 2019. All children underwent X-ray of the cervical spine, chest and abdomen, esophagoscopy with removal of the battery, tracheoscopy. Complications occurred in 39 children: TEF - 21, esophageal stenosis - 19, laryngeal paresis - 14, esophageal perforation - 3. Patients with TEF were divided into 2 groups: clinically stable children without respiratory failure and severe illness with respiratory failure including mechanical ventilation. Group I consisted of 6 children, four of them underwent laparoscopic Nissen fundoplication and gastrostomy. Group II consisted of 15 children. In acute period, 3 children underwent laparoscopic fundoplication and gastrostomy, 8 ones - TEF ligation, 4 patients - tracheal repair with esophageal flap and esophageal extirpation. Patients with esophageal stenosis underwent bougienage. Patients with esophageal perforation required therapy. Tracheostomy was necessary for respiratory failure and bilateral laryngeal paresis. Lateralization procedures were performed in patients with negative course of disease.
RESULTS: In the 1st group, spontaneous closure of TEF was found in 3 children after fundoplication and gastrostomy. One child underwent thoracoscopic disconnection of TEF after reduction of fistula. In the 2nd group, fundoplication resulted spontaneous closure of fistula after 2-5 months. In 4 children, recanalization of the fistula or esophageal failure were observed in acute period after TEF ligation.
CONCLUSION: Laparoscopic fundoplication and gastrostomy are optimal for TEF and can result complete or partial spontaneous closure of TEF. If radical procedure is necessary in acute period, tracheal repair with esophageal flap and extirpation of the esophagus with subsequent coloesophagoplasty should be considered.

Citation: Razumovskiy AY, et al. [Treatment of complications following esophageal electrochemical burns by batteries in children]. [Treatment of complications following esophageal electrochemical burns by batteries in children]. 2022; (unknown volume):54-59. doi: 10.17116/hirurgia202204154

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35477201/
