PMID: 35472192
Title: Reducing length of stay for patients undergoing transcatheter aortic valve replacement using a prescreening approach.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: As transcatheter aortic valve replacement (TAVR) becomes a preferred treatment option for patients with aortic valve stenosis, and demand for TAVR increases, it is imperative that length of stay (LOS) is reduced while maintaining safety and effectiveness.
LOCAL PROBLEM: As TAVR procedures have become less invasive and more streamlined, current protocols have not been updated to reflect today's postprocedure requirements.
METHODS: The next-day discharge (NDD) protocol was established using available literature. A convenience sample was evaluated for NDD protocol inclusion during aortic multidisciplinary team conference using predetermined inclusion and exclusion criteria. Length of stay for NDD protocol participants was compared with LOS from a retrospective convenience sample of patients undergoing TAVR in the time frame mirroring NDD protocol initiation of the year prior.
INTERVENTIONS: Patients meeting inclusion criteria were enrolled in the NDD protocol with a goal of discharge to home on postprocedural day 1 by 2:00 p.m. The NDD protocol included preprocedure expectation setting, prescheduled same-day postprocedure imaging, and discharge priority on postprocedure day 1.
RESULTS: There is a significant difference in LOS between the NDD eligible retrospective and prospective groups. The prospective group has a significantly lower LOS than the retrospective group (M = 1.6 vs 2.1, respectively; p = .0454).
CONCLUSIONS: An NDD protocol can help reduce LOS after TAVR in appropriately selected patients. Further protocol revision will be required to optimize LOS outcomes.

Citation: Cusin CN, et al. Reducing length of stay for patients undergoing transcatheter aortic valve replacement using a prescreening approach. Reducing length of stay for patients undergoing transcatheter aortic valve replacement using a prescreening approach. 2022; 34:844-849. doi: 10.1097/JXX.0000000000000719

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35472192/
