PMID: 35482658
Title: Computational fluid dynamic analysis of the nasal respiratory function before and after postero-superior repositioning of the maxilla.

Abstract: Morphological changes in the upper airway and the resulting alteration in the nasal respiratory function after jawbone repositioning during orthognathic surgery have garnered attention recently. In particular, nasopharyngeal stenosis, because of the complex influence of both jaws, the effects of which have not yet been clarified owing to postero-superior repositioning of the maxilla, may significantly impact sleep and respiratory function, necessitating further functional evaluation. This study aimed to perform a functional evaluation of the effects of surgery involving maxillary repositioning, which may result in a larger airway resistance if the stenosis worsens the respiratory function, using CFD for treatment planning. A model was developed from CT images obtained preoperatively (PRE) and postoperatively (POST) in females (n = 3) who underwent maxillary postero-superior repositioning using Mimics and ICEM CFD. Simultaneously, a model of stenosis (STENOSIS) was developed by adjusting the severity of stenosis around the PNS to simulate greater repositioning than that in the POST. Inhalation at rest and atmospheric pressure were simulated in each model using Fluent, whereas pressure drop (ΔP) was evaluated using CFD Post. In this study, ΔP was proportional to airway resistance because the flow rate was constant. Therefore, the magnitude of ΔP was evaluated as the level of airway resistance. The ΔP in the airway was lower in the POST compared to the PRE, indicating that the analysis of the effects of repositioning on nasal ventilation showed that current surgery is appropriate with respect to functionality, as it does not compromise respiratory function. The rate of change in the cross-sectional area of the mass extending pharynx (α) was calculated as the ratio of each neighboring section. The closer the α-value is to 1, the smaller the ΔP, so ideally the airway should be constant. This study identified airway shapes that are favorable from the perspective of fluid dynamics.

Citation: Aoyagi M, et al. Computational fluid dynamic analysis of the nasal respiratory function before and after postero-superior repositioning of the maxilla. Computational fluid dynamic analysis of the nasal respiratory function before and after postero-superior repositioning of the maxilla. 2022; 17:e0267677. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0267677

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35482658/
