PMID: 35489566
Title: Cerebroprotein hydrolysate injection is involved in promoting long-term angiogenesis, vessel diameter and density after cerebral ischemia in mice.

Abstract: AIMS: In this study, we aimed investigate the impacts of CH-I on angiogenesis, effects for vascular structure changes and long-term neurological recovery after ischemic stroke as well as the potential mechanisms.
MAIN METHODS: Young male mice subjected to intraluminal middle cerebral artery occlusion were administrated with CH-I once daily from day 1 to day 14 after stroke. The infarct volume was evaluated by TTC staining at day 7 after stroke. Neurological deficits were measured 1 to 28 days after stroke. Microvascular density, astrocyte coverage, and angiogenesis were assessed by IF, qRT-PCR, and WB at regular intervals after stroke. LSCI and TPMI measured changes in blood flow and vascular density and width from the day after stroke to day 28.
KEY FINDINGS: Compared with the dMCAO group, CH-I treatment significantly improved neurological recovery and reduced the infarct at day 7 after stroke. CH-I treatment increased the expression of the CD31, BrdU+/CD31+ microvessels and GFAP positive vessels in the peri-infarct cortex at day 7 to 28 after stroke. The expression of protein and gene were enhanced in CH-I group. CH-I significantly improved cerebral blood flow at day 7 after stroke. CH-I increased the vascular density and vascular width at day 14 after stroke.
SIGNIFICANCE: CH-I has been shown to restore nerve function, reduce the rate of cerebral infarction, increase microvascular density, and promote angiogenesis. CH-I improved cerebral blood flow, protected blood vessels from postoperative stenosis, and improved vascular plasticity.

Citation: Myagmar BO, et al. Cerebroprotein hydrolysate injection is involved in promoting long-term angiogenesis, vessel diameter and density after cerebral ischemia in mice. Cerebroprotein hydrolysate injection is involved in promoting long-term angiogenesis, vessel diameter and density after cerebral ischemia in mice. 2022; 300:120568. doi: 10.1016/j.lfs.2022.120568

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35489566/
