PMID: 35486151
Title: Simple and reliable transhiatal reconstruction after laparoscopic proximal gastrectomy with lower esophagectomy for Siewert type II tumors: y-shaped overlap esophagogastric tube reconstruction.

Abstract: PURPOSE: Despite the increasing incidence of adenocarcinoma of the esophagogastric junction, laparoscopic proximal gastrectomy with lower esophagectomy (PGLE) is not widely accepted owing to the lack of standardized reconstruction techniques. In this study, we developed a new reconstruction method named y-shaped overlap esophagogastric tube reconstruction, which reproduces an angle of His and a pseudo-fornix, to be used in laparoscopic transhiatal PGLE. This study aimed to determine the feasibility of this novel reconstruction method.
METHODS: This retrospective study included the analysis of short- and mid-term surgical outcomes of 30 consecutive patients with Siewert type II esophagogastric junction adenocarcinoma who underwent laparoscopic PGLE with y-shaped overlap esophagogastric tube reconstruction from April 2015 to August 2020. A novel method was used to form a 6-cm pseudo-fornix and an angle of His using the distal esophagus and a long gastric tube.
RESULTS: The median operation time was 369 min, and the median blood loss was 28 mL. The median follow-up period after surgery was 37 months. Although two patients experienced postoperative anastomotic leakage, none of the patients developed stenosis. One patient experienced moderate reflux symptoms, whereas four patients developed moderate reflux esophagitis based on the 1-year follow-up endoscopic examination; the condition of all patients could be efficiently controlled with medication.
CONCLUSION: The short- and mid-term surgical outcomes of y-shaped overlap esophagogastric tube reconstruction reflected the feasibility of this simple technique and suggested its potential utility as a reconstruction alternative for Siewert type II tumors.

Citation: Kanaji S, et al. Simple and reliable transhiatal reconstruction after laparoscopic proximal gastrectomy with lower esophagectomy for Siewert type II tumors: y-shaped overlap esophagogastric tube reconstruction. Simple and reliable transhiatal reconstruction after laparoscopic proximal gastrectomy with lower esophagectomy for Siewert type II tumors: y-shaped overlap esophagogastric tube reconstruction. 2022; 407:1881-1890. doi: 10.1007/s00423-022-02536-2

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35486151/
