PMID: 35482983
Title: Radiotherapy-induced isolated left main coronary artery disease presenting with cardiogenic shock: A case report.

Abstract: RATIONALE: Mediastinal radiotherapy is a common practice for treating breast cancer and Hodgkin's lymphoma. Radiotherapy causes cardiovascular damage and has attracted increasing attention, particularly among Hodgkin's lymphoma patients, as they receive a higher dose of radiation.
PATIENT CONCERNS: A 36-year-old woman with a past medical history of Hodgkin's lymphoma presented with persistent chest pain for 3 hours. She experienced exertional chest pain 1 month before when she was climbing stairs, which disappeared after a few minutes with rest, but recurred with a similar level of exertion. Three hours before admission to the emergency room, the chest pain persisted and was accompanied by diaphoresis and dyspnea.
DIAGNOSIS: Cardiogenic shock caused by radiotherapy-induced left main coronary artery disease.
INTERVENTIONS: Urgent angiography revealed left main coronary artery stenosis. Intravascular ultrasonography showed diffuse fibrous proliferation in the left main coronary artery. Hemodynamic instability was resolved after drug-eluting stent implantation.
OUTCOMES: The patient was discharged uneventfully 5 days after the procedure, with a prescription for dual antiplatelet and statin therapy. She was asymptomatic with good exercise tolerance at the 3-month follow-up.
CONCLUSION: Radiotherapy-induced isolated left main coronary artery disease is a rare complication of cancer radiotherapy and can occur years or decades after treatment. Fibrous proliferation is a characteristic pathologic change in the exposed coronary arteries.

Citation: Li B, et al. Radiotherapy-induced isolated left main coronary artery disease presenting with cardiogenic shock: A case report. Radiotherapy-induced isolated left main coronary artery disease presenting with cardiogenic shock: A case report. 2022; 101:e29116. doi: 10.1097/MD.0000000000029116

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35482983/
