PMID: 35483135
Title: Intrinsic functional brain connectivity is resilient to chronic hypoperfusion caused by unilateral carotid artery stenosis.

Abstract: INTRODUCTION: Chronic cerebral hypoperfusion caused by asymptomatic high-grade stenosis of the internal carotid artery (ICA) has been associated with impaired cognitive function. Only few studies exist on underlying changes of functional connectivity (FC).
METHODS: 20 patients with unilateral high-grade ICA stenosis without MRI lesions and 25 aged-match controls underwent resting-state functional MRI (rsfMRI) and neuropsychological assessment. Patients were examined within ten days before and 6-10 weeks after surgical or interventional revascularization of carotid stenosis. We examined mean resting-state FC ipsi- and contralateral to stenosis and network topology using graph-theoretical measures.
RESULTS: At baseline, intrahemispheric FC was similar for patients and healthy controls. After revascularization mean FC increased moderately without an effect on network topology. Patients performed worse in TMT B and Stroop test, while performance in global screening tests for dementia (Mini Mental Status Examination, DemTect) were comparable. Test results did not improve after revascularization.
CONCLUSION: In our study population, we find no effect of chronic hypoperfusion on FC and global cognitive function, although we observe minor impairments in processing speed and mental flexibility. The subtle increase of FC after revascularization could indicate excessive upregulation after restoration of perfusion. However, it might as well be a coincidental finding due to the limited sample size.

Citation: Fischer F, et al. Intrinsic functional brain connectivity is resilient to chronic hypoperfusion caused by unilateral carotid artery stenosis. Intrinsic functional brain connectivity is resilient to chronic hypoperfusion caused by unilateral carotid artery stenosis. 2022; 34:103014. doi: 10.1016/j.nicl.2022.103014

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35483135/
