PMID: 35486164
Title: Aberrant right subclavian artery with right type 1 proatlantal artery and segmental dysplasia of the right internal carotid artery: a case report.

Abstract: PURPOSE: We present a case of an aberrant right subclavian artery (ARSA) with extremely rare vascular anomalies.
CASE REPORT: A 69-year-old woman was suspected to have right internal carotid artery (ICA) stenosis. Computed tomography angiography demonstrated an ARSA and hypoplasia of the right ICA. The proximal segment of the right vertebral artery (VA) was aplasia, and a right type 1 proatlantal artery (PA) arose from the right common carotid artery. Cerebral angiography demonstrated segmental dysplasia of the right ICA. The ascending intrapetrous segment and the ascending foramen lacerum-horizontal intracavernous segment of the right ICA demonstrated hypoplasia. The collateral pathways promoted reconstitution of each of the distal segments. Left internal carotid angiography demonstrated anterior communicating artery aneurysm and sufficient cross flow to the contralateral middle cerebral artery via the AcomA.
DISCUSSION: A type 1 PA with an ARSA may result in the regression of the right dorsal aorta with persistence of the first cervical intersegmental artery. Although there are few findings of a relationship between an ARSA and intracranial artery anomalies, a developmental error of the right dorsal aorta may cause such complex vascular anomalies.
CONCLUSION: Knowledge of anatomical variations in patients with ARSA is useful when performing angiography or endovascular therapy, as well as during clinical follow-up.

Citation: Ishikawa K, et al. Aberrant right subclavian artery with right type 1 proatlantal artery and segmental dysplasia of the right internal carotid artery: a case report. Aberrant right subclavian artery with right type 1 proatlantal artery and segmental dysplasia of the right internal carotid artery: a case report. 2022; 44:709-713. doi: 10.1007/s00276-022-02950-7

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35486164/
