PMID: 35508295
Title: TAVI with the ACURATE neo transcatheter heart valve in special populations: A systematic review.

Abstract: The ACURATE neo transcatheter aortic valve is a self-expanding device suitable for both transfemoral and transapical approach, but specific groups of patients are under-represented in clinical trials. We aim to provide a comprehensive systematic review on TAVI with ACURATE neo in those special populations. TAVI in bicuspid aortic valve, TAVI in patients with small aortic annulus, TAVI for pure aortic regurgitation and valve-in-valve procedures, were systematically reviewed. The primary endpoint was device success as defined by VARC-2 criteria. The secondary endpoints were safety and performance outcomes according to VARC-2 consensus document.ACURATE neo exhibited similar outcomes in bicuspid vs tricuspid aortic valve except for pre and post-dilatation rates in one observational study. Lower mean aortic gradient and higher pre-dilatation rates with comparable safety outcomes were described for ACURATE neo when compared to Lotus and Evolut-R for bicuspid aortic valve stenosis. 2 studies compared ACURATE in small aortic annuli. ACURATE neo showed lower transvalvular gradients and lower patient prosthesis mismatch rates compared to Sapien 3 and when compared to Evolut R/ Evolut PRO/ Portico, results were similar except for pre-dilatation rates. 3 studies investigated ACURATE neo for pure aortic regurgitation and one for valve-in-valve procedure and demonstrated safety and efficacy, with the exception of malposition events in patients designated for higher valve deployment in the valve-in-valve implantation study.ACURATE neo valve may be a feasible and safe option for patients with bicuspid anatomy, small aortic annulus, previously implanted bioprosthetic aortic valve and pure aortic regurgitation. REGISTRATION NUMBER: Available at https://osf.io/aus26 (DOI 10.17605/OSF.IO/AUS26).

Citation: Koliastasis L, et al. TAVI with the ACURATE neo transcatheter heart valve in special populations: A systematic review. TAVI with the ACURATE neo transcatheter heart valve in special populations: A systematic review. 2022; 66:67-71. doi: 10.1016/j.hjc.2022.04.005

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35508295/
