PMID: 35509556
Title: Cervical carotid occlusion in acute ischemic stroke: Should we give tPA?

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Acute ischemic stroke (AIS) due to cervical internal carotid artery (cICA) occlusion is challenging to treat, with the lower revascularization rates, higher risk for complications, and poor response to thrombolytic therapy compared to isolated intracranial occlusions. While emergent revascularization through mechanical thrombectomy (MT) improves outcomes, the impact of tissue plasminogen activator (tPA) on outcomes in this subgroup of patients remains unclear. The objective of this study is to report our preliminary experience in treating AIS with cICA occlusions secondary to severe atherosclerotic stenosis and to establish the need for further clinical studies to determine the optimal intervention strategy for these lesions.
METHODS: Data were collected on patients who presented with acute cICA occlusion who underwent MT and either acute or staged carotid angioplasty and stenting. We compare patients who received tPA to those who did not, analyzing revascularization times, outcomes, and complications between the two populations, and discuss how this influenced our preferred treatment approach.
RESULTS: Twenty-one patients met inclusion criteria, seven of who received tPA and 14 did not receive tPA before surgical intervention. Procedural and functional outcomes were similar between the two populations. TPA administration correlated with a higher rate of vessel reocclusion in staged procedures and trended toward higher rates of symptomatic ICH and 90-day mortality.
CONCLUSION: Emergent revascularization with acute cICA stenting carries advantages, but its safety is precluded by tPA administration. We suggest a trial which randomizes patients with cICA occlusions to receiving either tPA or dual antiplatelet therapy before surgical intervention, aiming to ultimately improved outcomes in these patients.

Citation: Elder TA, et al. Cervical carotid occlusion in acute ischemic stroke: Should we give tPA?. Cervical carotid occlusion in acute ischemic stroke: Should we give tPA?. 2022; 13:177. doi: 10.25259/SNI_176_2022

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35509556/
