PMID: 35504817
Title: The effect of suture techniques on the outcome of tracheal reconstruction: An observational study and review of literature.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Tracheal resection and anastomosis surgery is a safe operation and is used to treat various benign and malignant diseases of the trachea. However, tracheal stenosis is among the main anastomotic complications following this procedure. Surgeons use both the continuous and the interrupted suture techniques for tracheal anastomosis, but contradicting results in each technique's complications have been reported in various studies. In this study, we aimed to compare the outcome of these two different suture techniques and a relevant literature review.
METHODS: Surgical records during a period of 15 years (2005-2019) were screened for tracheal reconstruction surgery in affiliated hospitals of Shiraz University of Medical Sciences, Shiraz, Iran. A total of 82 patients were evaluated based on surgical and suture features, along with their follow-up bronchoscopy for anastomotic complications.
RESULTS: Post-operational subclinical restenosis occurred in 8 (15.3%) out of 52 and 10 (33.3%) of 30 patients who underwent continuous and interrupted suturing techniques, respectively. Also, 6 (20%) patients in the interrupted group developed symptomatic restenosis, while in the continuous group, only one patient was clinically symptomatic. The patients with continuous suture technique had a shorter surgery time than patients whose interrupted technique was used (P < 0.001).
CONCLUSIONS: Based on our results, we conclude that restenosis is significantly reduced when the continuous technique is applied for tracheal anastomosis; However, the results are contradicting in relevant literature and due to the retrospective nature of our study, further human studies and clinical trials are warranted.

Citation: Ziaian B, et al. The effect of suture techniques on the outcome of tracheal reconstruction: An observational study and review of literature. The effect of suture techniques on the outcome of tracheal reconstruction: An observational study and review of literature. 2023; 21:e89-e96. doi: 10.1016/j.surge.2022.03.008

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35504817/
