PMID: 35506942
Title: Characteristics of Sagittal Spinopelvic Alignment Changes After Symptom Relief After Simple Lumbar Decompression.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Sagittal spinopelvic alignment (SSPA) parameters are essential for the diagnosis of adult spinal deformities (ASDs) and their progression. Certain clinical symptoms that occur in patients with lumbar spinal stenosis (LSS) and herniated nucleus pulposus (HNP) may distort the SSPA and mimic ASD.
OBJECTIVE: To differentiate SSPA in symptomatic patients from asymptomatic patients within 10 minutes in the standing position.
METHODS: This retrospective cohort study evaluated changes in SSPA after simple lumbar decompression surgery in patients with LSS and HNP. Relative sagittal alignment (RSA), relative pelvic version, relative lumbar lordosis (RLL), Lordosis Distribution Index (LDI), and global alignment and proportion (GAP) values were calculated using the conventional Schwab classification method. First, the preoperative and postoperative SSPA parameters were compared. Second, patients were subgrouped into symptomatic within 10 minutes of standing (SP group) and other symptoms of LSS and HNP as controls. Changes in SSPA parameters after symptom relief after simple lumbar decompression surgery were compared between the two groups.
RESULTS: Overall, all SSPA parameters improved after surgery. However, after subgrouping, patients in the control group did not show significant SSPA alterations, except for LDI, whereas patients in the SP group significantly improved in terms of their RSA, RLL, LDI, and GAP values after symptom relief after surgery.
CONCLUSION: Patients with pain on standing within 10 minutes showed significant correction in RSA, RLL, and GAP values after simple lumbar decompression. Therefore, it is important to observe such clinical symptoms to avoid misdiagnosis of ASD.

Citation: Ham CH, et al. Characteristics of Sagittal Spinopelvic Alignment Changes After Symptom Relief After Simple Lumbar Decompression. Characteristics of Sagittal Spinopelvic Alignment Changes After Symptom Relief After Simple Lumbar Decompression. 2022; 91:331-338. doi: 10.1227/neu.0000000000002013

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35506942/
