PMID: 35509597
Title: Microsurgery for a medial left giant lesser sphenoid wing meningioma complicated by postoperative vasospasm of the ipsilateral supraclinoid carotid artery.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Sphenoid wing meningiomas present close contact with intracranial arteries and have great potential for vascular complications. Here, we describe the case of a patient who presented a medial left giant lesser sphenoid wing meningioma involving the supraclinoid carotid artery. One week after surgery, she developed vasospasm whose treatment using milrinone achieved excellent results.
CASE DESCRIPTION: This is the case of a 23-year-old female with a large meningioma of the middle third of the lesser wing of the left sphenoid. Furthermore, the patient had symptoms of headache, diplopia, and left amaurosis (Video 1). The lesion involved the supraclinoid left carotid artery, causing significant stenosis of the vessel. The patient underwent surgical treatment without complications. One week after the procedure, she evolved with lowered level of consciousness, complete, and proportionate right hemiparesis and right Babinski's sign. Angiographic study demonstrated significant stenosis of the left supraclinoid artery. After endovascular treatment with milrinone, the patient evolved with immediate improvement of signs and symptoms.Video 1:Surgical procedure. Video is accessible from the portal.
CONCLUSION: Giant meningiomas with vascular involvement involve a higher risk of postoperative vascular complications. Other studies should be carried out to predict these complications and thus develop preventive measures.

Citation: Lessa SS, et al. Microsurgery for a medial left giant lesser sphenoid wing meningioma complicated by postoperative vasospasm of the ipsilateral supraclinoid carotid artery. Microsurgery for a medial left giant lesser sphenoid wing meningioma complicated by postoperative vasospasm of the ipsilateral supraclinoid carotid artery. 2022; 13:113. doi: 10.25259/SNI_90_2022

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35509597/
