PMID: 35509528
Title: Truncal dystonia with isolated middle cerebral artery ischemia: A case report of revascularization therapy for dystonia.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Dystonia is a rare movement disorder with some cases being difficult to treat. Although dystonia can occur as a symptom of moyamoya disease, few studies have reported truncal dystonia occurring with middle cerebral artery (MCA) stenosis. Here, we report a case of truncal dystonia with MCA occlusion.
CASE DESCRIPTION: The patient was a 48-year-old female clerical worker who lived alone. An abnormal cervical posture initially appeared 7 years before (right flexion). Symptoms improved with medication and botulinum toxin injection. Five years before this report, her symptoms worsened, so the dose of oral medication was increased and botulinum treatment was performed, but the symptoms did not improve. The patient showed decreased cerebral blood flow (CBF) in the cortical areas but not in the basal ganglia. We performed superficial temporal artery-MCA bypass surgery because we believed that the dystonia was due to right MCA stenosis. The patient's symptoms improved immediately after surgery, except for her mild cervical backbend. Seven months after the surgery, the patient's involuntary movements showed further improvement, and symptoms have not worsened even after 2 years.
CONCLUSION: Revascularization therapy improved CBF and truncal dystonia and could be a viable treatment option for dystonia with ischemia in the MCA region. Extensive cerebral ischemia can result in cortical inhibition loss or over-adapted cerebral plasticity and cause dystonia. Revascularization therapy may be useful for patients with dystonia and decreased CBF in the MCA region.

Citation: Matsumoto S, et al. Truncal dystonia with isolated middle cerebral artery ischemia: A case report of revascularization therapy for dystonia. Truncal dystonia with isolated middle cerebral artery ischemia: A case report of revascularization therapy for dystonia. 2022; 13:155. doi: 10.25259/SNI_173_2022

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35509528/
