PMID: 35513133
Title: Single-Port, Robot-Assisted Transanal Harvest of Rectal Mucosa Grafts for Substitution Urethroplasty.

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: To describe a novel single-port, endorobotic technique for harvesting rectal mucosa grafts (RMGs) for urethral reconstruction.
METHODS: A 57-year-old man with prior transurethral procedures developed recurrent obstructive voiding symptoms. Urethrography revealed a panurethral stricture, meatus to the bulbomembranous junction. It was decided to proceed with surgical repair. Owing to the stricture's length, available oral mucosa would require additional material, and repair with a single rectal mucosa graft was offered instead. Single-port (SP) endorobotic approach offered ideal access for transanal harvest. With the patient placed in a modified lithotomy position, a GELPOINT Path transanal access platform was inserted through the anal canal. Pneumorectum was established at 12 mmHg with an AirSeal CO<sub>2</sub> insufflator. A Da Vinci SP surgical system was docked, equipped with Maryland bipolar forceps and a monopolar spatula. After injection of ORISE gel, endorobotic submucosal dissection began posteriorly proximal to the dentate line.
RESULTS: Proceeding cranially through the rectal submucosa, a 21 ✕ 3 cm strip of mucosa was obtained with appropriate hemostasis. The resulting graft was thoroughly thinned. The robot was undocked, and the patient repositioned to high lithotomy. The patient underwent a penis-inverting, dorsolateral approach augmentation urethroplasty. With an indwelling catheter placed, the patient was discharged on postoperative day 2 with no postoperative complications.
CONCLUSION: Transanal rectal mucosal dissection with a single-port endorobotic approach can be an enticing and minimally invasive harvesting technique to provide substitution grafts for long-segment urethral reconstruction.

Citation: Emrich Accioly JP, et al. Single-Port, Robot-Assisted Transanal Harvest of Rectal Mucosa Grafts for Substitution Urethroplasty. Single-Port, Robot-Assisted Transanal Harvest of Rectal Mucosa Grafts for Substitution Urethroplasty. 2022; 166:1-5. doi: 10.1016/j.urology.2022.04.018

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35513133/
