PMID: 35515006
Title: Ruptured Pancreaticoduodenal Artery Aneurysm with Median Arcuate Ligament Compression: A Two Staged Approach to Management.

Abstract: INTRODUCTION: Pancreaticoduodenal artery (PDA) aneurysms represent a small portion of rare visceral artery aneurysms. Rupture of these aneurysms results in fatal haemorrhage in up to 50% of cases, necessitating prompt endovascular or open intervention. As highlighted by a recent retrospective review, median arcuate ligament (MAL) release is an important part of management when these aneurysms are diagnosed in conjunction with median arcuate ligament compression (MALC). Two cases of successful urgent management of a ruptured inferior pancreatoduodenal artery aneurysm with staged MAL release are reported.
REPORT: A 65 year old male presented with a ruptured PDA aneurysm in the context of MALC. The patient was treated by emergency transcatheter arterial embolisation (TAE). Staged laparoscopic MAL release required open conversion and stenting one month after rupture. A 73 year old male presented to the same institution with a ruptured PDA aneurysm, again in the context of MALC. This patient was similarly managed by emergency TAE and later had an uncomplicated laparoscopic MAL release. On table mesenteric angiography confirmed successful release. Both patients have since recovered without any recurrence of bleeding or new aneurysm formation.
DISCUSSION: Ruptured true PDA aneurysms, while uncommon, may be managed successfully using urgent endovascular techniques. Concomitant coeliac axis stenosis due to MALC requires secondary treatment and can be managed effectively using a staged approach following the urgent presentation.

Citation: Casey L, et al. Ruptured Pancreaticoduodenal Artery Aneurysm with Median Arcuate Ligament Compression: A Two Staged Approach to Management. Ruptured Pancreaticoduodenal Artery Aneurysm with Median Arcuate Ligament Compression: A Two Staged Approach to Management. 2022; 55:42-46. doi: 10.1016/j.ejvsvf.2022.03.005

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35515006/
