PMID: 35521716
Title: Comparison of long-term outcomes and risk factors of aortic stenosis treatment in patients undergoing transcatheter aortic valve implantation and surgical aortic valve replacement.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Aortic stenosis (AS) is the most common valvular heart disease and untreated has a bleak prognosis. The only effective method of treatment is valve replacement, surgical (SAVR), or transcatheter (TAVI).
AIMS: We decided to analyze outcomes and predictors of long-term mortality in patients undergoing TAVI and SAVR.
METHODS: A retrospective analysis of 1229 patients with advanced AS, comprising TAVI (n = 211), SAVR (n = 556), SAVR, and additional procedures (n = 462), operated on from 2014 to 2018, was performed.
RESULTS: No significant differences between SAVR and TAVI were found for 24-month mortality in groups of consecutive patients. Postoperative stroke or transient ischemic attack (TIA), chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), and transfusion of red blood cells (RBCs) were independent predictors of 1-year mortality after SAVR. The above-mentioned factors regarding the increased estimated surgery risk in the EuroSCORE II ( > 4%) were predictors of 2-years mortality after SAVR. Risk factors for 6- and 12-month mortality after TAVI were EuroSCORE II, new onset of atrial fibrillation (NOAF), and the increased RBC distribution width (RDW). Postoperative respiratory failure was an independent risk factor for 6-, 12- and 24-month mortality in both groups of patients.
CONCLUSIONS: There were no significant differences regarding prognosis after TAVI and SAVR at the 24-month follow-up in the propensity score matching model. Independent predictive factors of late mortality after both procedures were EuroScore II and respiratory failure. Independent predictive factors of late mortality specific for TAVI were NOAF, increased RDW, and for SAVR: TIA, stroke, COPD, and RBC transfusion.

Citation: Marzec K, et al. Comparison of long-term outcomes and risk factors of aortic stenosis treatment in patients undergoing transcatheter aortic valve implantation and surgical aortic valve replacement. Comparison of long-term outcomes and risk factors of aortic stenosis treatment in patients undergoing transcatheter aortic valve implantation and surgical aortic valve replacement. 2022; 80:792-798. doi: 10.33963/KP.a2022.0122

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35521716/
