PMID: 35526149
Title: Pulmonary artery reconstruction and correction of tetralogy of Fallot combined with the absence of the mediastinal left pulmonary artery.

Abstract: OBJECTIVES: Tetralogy of Fallot (TOF) is the most common deformity combined with the unilateral absence of the mediastinal pulmonary artery (UAMPA), and its treatment strategy remains controversial. In this study, we analyzed the effect of bilateral pulmonary reconstruction in patients with TOF combined with UAMPA.
METHODS: This was a single-center, retrospective review of 1713 patients with TOF between January 2009 and November 2021. Overall, eight patients were diagnosed with TOF combined with UAMPA. Among them, seven underwent surgery: three underwent one-stage TOF correction with bilateral pulmonary artery reconstruction; three patients underwent bilateral pulmonary artery reconstruction, followed by two-stage TOF correction after several months; and one patient underwent two procedures of left pulmonary artery reconstruction, and the ventral septal defect remained open. The left pulmonary arteries were reconstructed with a Goretex conduit in three cases, direct anastomosis in two cases, and the modified autologous tissue extension technique in two cases.
RESULTS: All seven patients survived during the postoperative follow-up and showed good cardiac function and normal oxygen saturation of >97%. During follow-up echocardiography, we noted that the left pulmonary arteries reconstructed with a Goretex conduit or direct anastomosis had thrombosis or stenosis. However, those reconstructed using the modified autologous tissue extension technique was unobstructed.
CONCLUSIONS: In patients with TOF and UAMPA, if there is a pulmonary artery confluence in the affected hilum, it is feasible to implement bilateral pulmonary artery reconstruction for one-stage TOF correction. The use of the pulmonary artery extension technique and autologous tissue for bilateral pulmonary reconstruction could reduce the incidence of anastomotic stenosis.

Citation: Cui H, et al. Pulmonary artery reconstruction and correction of tetralogy of Fallot combined with the absence of the mediastinal left pulmonary artery. Pulmonary artery reconstruction and correction of tetralogy of Fallot combined with the absence of the mediastinal left pulmonary artery. 2022; 37:2285-2291. doi: 10.1111/jocs.16588

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35526149/
