PMID: 35525705
Title: Influence of double J stent in the complications of ureterovesical anastomosis during kidney transplantation.

Abstract: INTRODUCTION: Complications arising from ureterovesical anastomosis in kidney transplantation have an important influence on the success of the procedure. The most serious and frequent complications are fistula and stenosis of the ureterovesical junction. The placement of double J stents in anastomosis is currently recommended to reduce these complications.
OBJECTIVE: The aim of the study is to evaluate whether the placement of a DJ stent affects complications of anastomosis.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: Retrospective analysis of 697 patients treated with cadaveric donor renal transplant in our center from 1999 to 2018 was performed. Results were compared according to double J stent placement and the surgical technique employed for anastomosis.
RESULTS: Transplantation was performed without DJ placement in 51.7% of the patients, compared to 48.3% who were treated with DJ stent placement. The most commonly used technique was Lich-Gregoir. Ureterovesical fistula occurred in 5% of cases, and ureterovesical stenosis in 4.2%. DJ stent behaved as a protective factor for ureterovesical fistula but did not significantly influence the development of stenosis. The Taguchi technique greatly increased the risk of developing both ureterovesical fistula and stenosis. The incidence of stenosis and fistula was significantly higher when the Taguchi technique was combined with no DJ stent placement.
CONCLUSION: DJ stent placement acts as a protective factor for ureterovesical stenosis complications. The results of our study seem to agree with current literature.

Citation: Quintana Álvarez R, et al. Influence of double J stent in the complications of ureterovesical anastomosis during kidney transplantation. Influence of double J stent in the complications of ureterovesical anastomosis during kidney transplantation. 2022; 46:252-258. doi: 10.1016/j.acuroe.2021.11.002

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35525705/
