PMID: 35538836
Title: Inhibitory Effect of Verapamil on the Growth of Human Airway Granulation Fibroblasts.

Abstract: OBJECTIVES: To explore the inhibitory effect of verapamil, a calcium channel blocker, on the growth of human airway granulation fibroblasts to provide an experimental basis for the clinical use of calcium channel blockers in preventing and treating benign airway stenosis.
METHODS: Primary human airway normal fibroblasts and human airway granulation fibroblasts were cultured by tissue block attachment culture method, and the experimental studies were carried out using 3-8 generation cells. Cell Counting Kit-8 (CCK-8) was used to test the proliferation of human normal airway fibroblasts and human airway granulation fibroblasts and the semi-inhibitory concentration of verapamil on normal airway fibroblasts and airway granulation fibroblasts. A scratch test detected the migration effect of verapamil on human airway granulation fibroblasts. The mRNA relative expression levels of related factors were detected by PCR to compare the differences between normal airway fibroblasts and airway granulation fibroblasts. Western blot was used to detect the relative amount of related proteins and compare the differences between normal airway fibroblasts and granulation airway fibroblasts. After 48 hours of treatment with half of the inhibitory concentration of Vera Pammy for granulation airway fibroblasts, the relative expression levels of related factors on mRNA and protein were observed.
RESULTS: Human normal airway fibroblasts and human airway granulation fibroblasts with a purity of more than 95% could be obtained from primary culture by tissue block adherence method. CCK8 results showed that the proliferation rate of human airway granulation fibroblasts was faster than that of the normal human airway fibroblasts. The semi-inhibitory concentration of verapamil on human normal airway fibroblasts was 92.81 ug/ml, while the semi-inhibitory concentration on human airway granulation fibroblasts was 69.57 ug/ml. The scratch test indicated that the cell migration rate of human airway granulation fibroblasts treated with verapamil decreased significantly (P < 0.05). PCR results showed that the mRNA relative expression levels of TGFβ1, COL1A1, Smad2/3, VEGFA, IL6, and IL8 in human airway granulation fibroblasts were significantly higher than those in normal human airway fibroblasts (P < 0.05). The mRNA relative expressions of TGFβ1, smad2/3, and COL1A1 in human airway granulation fibroblasts treated with semi-inhibited verapamil for 48h were down-regulated (P < 0.05), while the mRNA relative expressions of VEGFA, IL6 and IL8 had no significant changes (P > 0.05). WB test showed that the relative protein expressions of TGFβ1, Smad2, and VEGFC in human airway granulation fibroblasts were upregulated (P < 0.05) but downregulated after verapamil treatment compared with before treatment (P < 0.05).
CONCLUSION: Calcium channel blockers can inhibit the proliferation of human airway granulation fibroblasts through TGFβ1/ Smad pathway, which may be a method to prevent and treat benign airway stenosis.

Citation: Cai B, et al. Inhibitory Effect of Verapamil on the Growth of Human Airway Granulation Fibroblasts. Inhibitory Effect of Verapamil on the Growth of Human Airway Granulation Fibroblasts. 2023; 26:826-837. doi: 10.2174/1386207325666220509175916

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35538836/
