PMID: 35537999
Title: Low serum albumin: A neglected predictor in patients with cardiovascular disease.

Abstract: Albumin, the most abundant circulating protein in blood, is an essential protein which binds and transports various drugs and substances, maintains the oncotic pressure of blood and influences the physiological function of the circulatory system. Albumin also has anti-inflammatory, antioxidant, and antithrombotic properties. Evidence supports albumin's role as a strong predictor of cardiovascular (CV) risk in several patient groups. Its protective role extends to those with coronary artery disease, heart failure, hypertension, atrial fibrillation, peripheral artery disease or ischemic stroke, as well as those undergoing revascularization procedures or with aortic stenosis undergoing transcatheter aortic valve replacement, and patients with congenital heart disease and/or endocarditis. Hypoalbuminemia is a strong prognosticator of increased all-cause and CV mortality according to several cohort studies and meta-analyses in hospitalized and non-hospitalized patients with or without comorbidities. Normalization of albumin levels before discharge lowers mortality risk, compared with hypoalbuminemia before discharge. Modified forms of albumin, such as ischemia modified albumin, also has prognostic value in patients with coronary or peripheral artery disease. When albumin is combined with other risk factors, such as uric acid or C-reactive protein, the prognostic value is enhanced. Although albumin supplementation may be a plausible approach, its efficacy has not been established and in patients with hypoalbuminemia, priority is focused on diagnosing and managing the underlying condition. The CV effects of hypoalbuminemia and relevant issues are considered in this review. Large cohort studies and meta-analyses are tabulated and the physiologic effects of albumin and the deleterious effects of low albumin are pictorially illustrated.

Citation: Manolis AA, et al. Low serum albumin: A neglected predictor in patients with cardiovascular disease. Low serum albumin: A neglected predictor in patients with cardiovascular disease. 2022; 102:24-39. doi: 10.1016/j.ejim.2022.05.004

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35537999/
