PMID: 35534433
Title: Postoperative nursing care of a child with pulmonary artery displacement combined with slide tracheobronchial plasty.

Abstract: Generally, pulmonary artery sling operation involves the pulmonary artery transplantation to be cut off. Nursing care is focused on the postoperative pulmonary vascular anastomosis, respiratory tract, and blood pressure after surgery. We report the case of an infant who underwent pulmonary artery tracheal transposition combined with Slide keratoplasty, where the pulmonary artery transplantation was not cut off. We highlight that postoperative pulmonary artery blood flow to the unobstructed airway and airway reconstruction surgery should be focused on to help children recover and ensure successful surgery. This case study reports the postoperative nursing experience of one patient with pulmonary artery sling undergoing pulmonary tracheal transposition combined with Slide arthroplasty. This demonstrates that throughout the postoperative care, airway management should be focused on to maintain circulation stability in the early postoperative period, and corresponding measures such as posture management, atomization inhalation, and improved chest physical therapy should be applied according to the special surgical method of the case in order to reduce airway complications and to improve the surgical success rate of children with pulmonary artery sling undergoing pulmonary tracheal transposition combined with Slide arthroplasty. In similar cases, after pulmonary tracheal transposition and Slide angioplasty, the doctors and nurses should pay attention to early circulation stability and focus on airway management through careful treatment and nursing, so as to promote the child's recovery.

Citation: Jin C, et al. Postoperative nursing care of a child with pulmonary artery displacement combined with slide tracheobronchial plasty. Postoperative nursing care of a child with pulmonary artery displacement combined with slide tracheobronchial plasty. 2023; 28:446-453. doi: 10.1111/nicc.12774

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35534433/
