PMID: 35532641
Title: Clinical Study of High-Resolution C-Arm CT in Mechanical Recanalization and Stent Implantation for Chronic Cerebral Artery Occlusion.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: In recent years, among patients with chronic cerebral artery occlusion, recanalization can be achieved by an endovascular operation. However, complications and restenosis rates remain high.
OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the utility of high-resolution C-arm CT (Dyna micro-CT) for stent placement in patients with chronic cerebral artery occlusion.
METHODS AND MATERIALS: We retrospectively reviewed the clinical data of 27 patients with chronic cerebral artery occlusion who underwent mechanical recanalization and stent implantation. Images were reconstructed using conventional C-arm CT (Dyna CT) and Dyna micro-CT. Whether the stent was fully expanded and image quality was evaluated. Follow-up assessments included clinical and angiographic outcomes and complications.
RESULTS: Twenty-two patients successfully underwent stenting (22 stents; 14 cases: Neuroform EZ; eight cases: Enterprise); stenting failed in five patients. Compared to Dyna CT, Dyna micro-CT afforded improved visualization of the stent structure, providing significantly improved image quality (P < 0.05). In seven patients, the stent under-expanded and dilatation was performed; thereafter, stent malapposition improved. One patient experienced sudden headache 22 hours after the procedure; CT showed intraparenchymal hemorrhage. The remaining 21 patients did not have acute thrombosis or bleeding complications and were followed up by imaging for 3-6 months. In three patients, digital subtraction angiography showed mild in-stent stenosis.
CONCLUSIONS: High-resolution C-arm CT can improve visualization of stent structures in chronic cerebral artery occlusion, making it easy to determine the extent of stent deployment and potentially reduce complications and stent restenosis.

Citation: Li TF, et al. Clinical Study of High-Resolution C-Arm CT in Mechanical Recanalization and Stent Implantation for Chronic Cerebral Artery Occlusion. Clinical Study of High-Resolution C-Arm CT in Mechanical Recanalization and Stent Implantation for Chronic Cerebral Artery Occlusion. 2022; 70:694-698. doi: 10.4103/0028-3886.344607

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35532641/
