PMID: 35535527
Title: [Two different techniques combined with MIS-TLIF in the treatment of degenerative lumbar spondylolisthesis:a case-control study].

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: To analyze the difference in clinical efficacy of minimally invasive transforaminal lumbar interbody fusion (MIS-TLIF) under Quadrant channel system combined with microscope and percutaneous pedicle screw in the treatment of degenerative lumbar spondylolisthesis.
METHODS: A total of 114 patients with single-segment degenerative lumbar spondylolisthesis from June 2015 to February 2019, were divided into three groups according to the surgical methods, such as the MIS-TLIF under the microscope surgery group ( microscope group), MIS-TLIF combined with percutaneous pedicle screw technique surgery group(percutaneous group) and posterior lumbar interbody fusion surgery group (open group). In the microscope group, there were 12 males and 26 females, aged from 42 to 83 years with an average of (63.29±9.09) years. In the percutaneous group, there were 16 males and 22 females, aged from 45 to 82 years with an average of (63.37±7.50) years. In the open group, there were 12 males and 26 females, aged from 51 to 82 years with an average of (63.76±8.21) years. The general conditions of operation, such as operation time, intraoperative blood loss, postoperative drainage, length of surgical incision, frequency of intraoperative fluoroscopy and postoperative time of lying in bed were recorded to analyze the differences in surgical related indicators. Visual analogue scale (VAS) of waist and leg pain in preoperative and postoperative period (3 days, 3 months, 6 months and 12 months) were recorded to evaluate pain remission;Oswestry Disability Index(ODI), Japanese Orthopaedic Association (JOA) score were recorded to evaluate the recovery of waist and leg function on preoperative and postoperative 12 months. The lumbar spondylolisthesis rate and intervertebral height at 12 months after operation were recorded to evaluate the reduction of spondylolisthesis. The Siepe intervertebral fusion standard was used to analyze the intervertebral fusion rate at 12 months after operation.
RESULTS: ①All 114 patients were followed up more than 1 year, and no complications related to incision infection occurred. In the microscope group, there was 1 case of subcutaneous effusion 8 days after operation. After percutaneous puncture and drainage, waist compression, and then the healing was delayed. In the percutaneous group, 2 cases of paravertebral muscle necrosis occurred on the side of decompression, and the healing was delayed after debridement. In open group, there was 1 case of intraoperative dural tear, which was packed with free adipose tissue during the operation. There was no postoperative cerebrospinal fluid leakage and other related complications.① Compared with microscope group, percutaneous group increased in operation time, intraoperative blood loss, postoperative wound drainage, surgical incision length, intraoperative fluoroscopy times, and postoperative bed rest time. In open group, intraoperative blood loss, postoperative wound drainage, surgical incision length, and postoperative bed rest time increased, but the intraoperative fluoroscopy time decreased. Compared with percutaneous group, the intraoperative blood loss, wound drainage, surgical incision length, and postoperative bed rest time in open group increased, but operative time and the intraoperative fluoroscopy time decreased(P&lt;0.05). ②ODI and JOA scores of the three groups at 12 months after operation were improved compared with those before operation (P&lt;0.05), but there was no significant difference between the three group(P&gt;0.05). ③Compared with microscope group, the VAS of low back pain in percutaneous group increased at 3 days after operation, and VAS of low back pain in open group increased at 3 days, and 12 month after operation. Compared with percutaneous group, the VAS low back pain score of the open group increased at 3 months after operation (P&lt;0.05). ④ The lumbar spondylolisthesis rate of the three groups of patients at 12 months afrer operation was decreased compared with that before operation(P&lt;0.05), and the intervertebral heigh was increased compared with that before operation(P&lt;0.05), however, there was no significant difference among three groups at 12 months afrer operation(P&gt;0.05). ⑤ There was no significant difference between three groups in the lumbar fusion rate at 12 months afrer operation(P&gt;0.05).
CONCLUSION: The MIS-TLIF assisted by microscope and the MIS-TLIF combined with percutaneous pedicle screw are safe and effective to treat the degenerative lumbar spondylolisthesis with single-segment, and the MIS-TLIF assisted by microscope may be more invasive, cause less blood loss and achieve better clinical efficacy.

Citation: Pu XY, et al. [Two different techniques combined with MIS-TLIF in the treatment of degenerative lumbar spondylolisthesis:a case-control study]. [Two different techniques combined with MIS-TLIF in the treatment of degenerative lumbar spondylolisthesis:a case-control study]. 2022; 35:409-17. doi: 10.12200/j.issn.1003-0034.2022.05.002

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35535527/
