PMID: 35550384
Title: Therapeutic Living Donor Nephrectomy for Proximal Ureteral Pathology: A Longitudinal Case Series.

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: To raise awareness that patients with proximal ureteral stricture who elect for nephrectomy can consider donating the kidney. We present a series of patients undergoing therapeutic living donor nephrectomy (TLDN), a scenario in which a patient undergoing nephrectomy for an underlying medical problem donates the kidney to a person with end-stage renal disease. This practice is underutilized, and only a single TLDN with proximal ureteral stricture has been previously described. We aim to help define the indications, risks, and benefits for patients.
METHODS: This is a retrospective case series of seven therapeutic donors with proximal ureteral pathology and stone disease. Patient characteristics, donor work up, operative details, and donor and recipient outcome were collected.
RESULTS: All seven donors had proximal ureteral pathology, and six of the seven had nephrolithiasis or ureterolithiasis. After electing for nephrectomy, the mean time to TLDN was 57.9 days. No recipients experienced delayed graft function . Mean follow up was 40.1 months (range 8-131), and the most recent follow-up mean creatinine was 1.08 (mg/dL). Graft and recipient survival is 100%. No recipients developed recurrence of ureteral stricture or stones.
CONCLUSION: This is the first series demonstrating patients with proximal ureteral stricture, even with concomitant stone disease, may donate kidneys for transplantation. Recipient outcomes suggest this practice is safe, and appropriately selected patients that have already elected for nephrectomy should receive counseling about this opportunity. Importantly, patients who donate a kidney receive waiting list priority if they ever need a kidney transplant in the future.

Citation: Freise J, et al. Therapeutic Living Donor Nephrectomy for Proximal Ureteral Pathology: A Longitudinal Case Series. Therapeutic Living Donor Nephrectomy for Proximal Ureteral Pathology: A Longitudinal Case Series. 2022; 166:277-282. doi: 10.1016/j.urology.2022.04.032

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35550384/
