PMID: 35558972
Title: Lung volume determination by dual-source computed tomography in infants with pulmonary artery sling: a case-control study.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Pulmonary artery sling (PAS) is associated with tracheal stenosis and left pulmonary artery (LPA) dysplasia in infants, both developmental abnormalities that may lead to pulmonary hypoplasia and lung volume changes. As such, we aimed to monitor the effects of tracheal stenosis and pulmonary vascular malformation on lung volumes in infants with PAS and their correlation with lung volumes in infants with PAS using dual-source computed tomography (DSCT).
METHODS: A case-control study was performed. From May 2009 to June 2017, we retrospectively enrolled patients with surgically confirmed PAS and compared them to matched normal controls (A healthy control group comprising age- and gender-matched patients with adequate imaging data was used for the comparisons.). All the patients underwent DSCT examinations. We measured and compared the diameters of the trachea, main bronchus, and main pulmonary artery (MPA) and its branches, and both lung volumes on the axial, and reconstructed CT images.
RESULTS: There were no statistical differences in the diameters of the MPA or right pulmonary artery (RPA) between patients (N=15) and controls (N=28). The diameter of the main bronchus, the bilateral trachea and the left pulmonary artery were all smaller in the PAS group than in the control group, and significant differences were evident in the left lung volume the right lung volume, and the right-to-left lung volume ratio between the 2 groups. Pearson's correlation and linear regression analyses between the diameters of the trachea and MPA, total lung volume, ipsilateral bronchial and pulmonary artery branches, and ipsilateral lung volume ranged from 0.71 to 0.87 and 0.57 to 0.77 for the control and PAS groups, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: Tracheal stenosis and LPA dysplasia in infants with PAS cause alterations in lung tissue morphology and physiological development, resulting in reduced bilateral lung volumes.

Citation: Cai Q, et al. Lung volume determination by dual-source computed tomography in infants with pulmonary artery sling: a case-control study. Lung volume determination by dual-source computed tomography in infants with pulmonary artery sling: a case-control study. 2022; 11:565-574. doi: 10.21037/tp-22-87

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35558972/
