PMID: 35578847
Title: Value of IMA, IMAR, the IMA Index, and Other Hematological Features in Predicting AIS Caused by MCA Stenosis/Occlusion.

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: In this study, we investigated the relationship between serum ischemic modified albumin (IMA) levels and other hematologic features and middle cerebral artery (MCA) severe stenosis/occlusion in acute ischemic stroke (AIS) patients.
METHODS: The levels of serum IMA and Albumin (ALB) of 169 AIS patients were measured, and the ratio of IMA to albumin (IMAR) and the albumin-adjusted ischemia-modified albumin index (IMA index) were calculated. Different combinations of other hematologic changes and clinical features of the patients were analyzed.
RESULTS: The results indicated that the levels of blood IMA and IMAR were significantly higher in the group with severe intracranial stenosis/occlusion than in the group with non-severe stenosis/ occlusion in AIS patients, while the CHE levels were significantly lower than those in the other groups. In the MCA severe stenosis/occlusion group, the levels of blood IMA and IMAR were significantly higher than that in the other vascular severe stenosis/occlusion groups, while the IMA index, ALB, and CHE were significantly lower than that in the other groups. Multiple linear regression analysis showed a significant negative correlation between IMA and albumin. A combined diagnostic ROC curve analysis showed that among AIS patients, the best combination for determining severe stenosis/occlusion of the great intracranial arteries was the admission NIHSS score + CHE (AUC = 0.783). The best combination for determining severe stenosis or occlusion of the MCA in AIS patients was IMAR combined with the admission NIHSS score and CHE (AUC = 0.827).
CONCLUSION: The combined use of IMA, IMAR, and the IMA index has some diagnostic value in AIS caused by severe stenosis or occlusion of the MCA. IMAR, CHE, and the admission NIHSS scores are the best combinations to determine whether an AIS patient has severe stenosis or occlusion of the MCA.

Citation: Li S, et al. Value of IMA, IMAR, the IMA Index, and Other Hematological Features in Predicting AIS Caused by MCA Stenosis/Occlusion. Value of IMA, IMAR, the IMA Index, and Other Hematological Features in Predicting AIS Caused by MCA Stenosis/Occlusion. 2022; 19:137-149. doi: 10.2174/1567202619666220516145120

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35578847/
