PMID: 35570389
Title: Bowel Obstruction Due to Stenotic Sigmoid Colon Cancer in a 32-Year-Old Patient Presenting in the Third Trimester of Pregnancy: A Case Report of an Interval Surgical Approach.

Abstract: BACKGROUND Colorectal cancer among pregnant women is a rare entity. If colon cancer is suspected during pregnancy, the diagnosis is a therapeutic challenge that should be managed by a multidisciplinary team of specialists. Standardized therapeutic models do not exist. In this article we present a case of a pregnant patient with stenotic sigmoid colon adenocarcinoma. We describe the interdisciplinary treatment and the 2-step surgical approach used during pregnancy. CASE REPORT A 32-year-old women in week 28.8 of pregnancy was admitted to the Department of Gynecology and Obstetrics, meeting the standard pregnancy criteria of constipation. After a week of unsuccessful conservative treatment, the patient underwent magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), which disclosed a stenosed segment in the sigmoid colon. After an emergency colonoscopy with biopsy sampling, histological analysis confirmed sigmoid adenocarcinoma. In a multidisciplinary consultation of specialists, in which neonatological and oncological aspects were considered, a 2-step surgical plan was established. In the first step (gestational week 29.8), a loop transverse colostomy with intestinal decompression was performed. In the second step (gestational week 32.8), an elective primary caesarean section followed by open oncological sigmoid resection was performed. No postoperative complications occurred in either step. The neonate was healthy and had a birth weight appropriate for the gestational age. CONCLUSIONS In cases of colorectal cancer during pregnancy, staged surgical approaches should be considered to reduce maternal and fetal morbidity.

Citation: Morales Santana DA, et al. Bowel Obstruction Due to Stenotic Sigmoid Colon Cancer in a 32-Year-Old Patient Presenting in the Third Trimester of Pregnancy: A Case Report of an Interval Surgical Approach. Bowel Obstruction Due to Stenotic Sigmoid Colon Cancer in a 32-Year-Old Patient Presenting in the Third Trimester of Pregnancy: A Case Report of an Interval Surgical Approach. 2022; 23:e935920. doi: 10.12659/AJCR.935920

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35570389/
