PMID: 35577562
Title: Standard umbilical artery catheters used as diagnostic and neurointerventional guide catheters in the treatment of neonatal cerebrovascular malformations.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Vascular access in neonates is limited by the small size of the femoral artery and the risk of complications, including thrombosis and limb ischemia. Although umbilical artery access has been described, previous reports detail exchange of the umbilical artery catheter (UAC) for a conventional arterial sheath, which can be difficult and cumbersome. We aim to describe direct use of the UAC as the sheath and guide catheter in neonatal patients requiring endovascular treatment for life-threatening intracranial arteriovenous shunts.
METHODS: We reviewed all cases between 2016 and 2021 of neonatal intervention using a direct UAC approach. We describe our technique of utilizing UACs for cerebral angiography and neurointerventions in newborns without catheter exchange, allowing for repeated, straightforward endovascular access in neonates across multiple interventions.
RESULTS: Seven consecutive neonates underwent endovascular neurointerventional procedures for the treatment of life-threatening, high-flow arteriovenous shunts using a direct UAC access technique without procedural morbidity. Five of seven patients underwent more than one procedure in the neonatal period, between day 1 and day 10 of life.
CONCLUSIONS: Use of the UAC itself as a diagnostic catheter for cerebral angiography or as a guide catheter for neurointerventions greatly facilitates endovascular interventions in newborns and is ideal for patients requiring multiple interventions in the neonatal period. This technique helps to mitigate the risk of neonatal femoral artery access and its complications, including thrombosis, dissection, spasm, stenosis, and limb ischemia.

Citation: Kappel AD and Orbach DB. Standard umbilical artery catheters used as diagnostic and neurointerventional guide catheters in the treatment of neonatal cerebrovascular malformations. Standard umbilical artery catheters used as diagnostic and neurointerventional guide catheters in the treatment of neonatal cerebrovascular malformations. 2023; 15:375-379. doi: 10.1136/neurintsurg-2022-018764

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35577562/
