PMID: 35572831
Title: Diagnosis of Atherosclerotic Plaques Using Vascular Endothelial Growth Factor Receptor-2 Targeting Antibody Nano-microbubble as Ultrasound Contrast Agent.

Abstract: The atherosclerotic plaque is characterized by narrowing of blood vessels and reduced blood flow leading to the insufficient blood supply to the brain. The hemodynamic changes caused by arterial stenosis increase the shearing force of the fibrous cap on the surface of the plaque, thereby reducing the stability of the plaque. Unstable plaques are more likely to promote angiogenesis and increase the risk of patients with cerebrovascular diseases. A timely understanding of the formation and stability of the arterial plaque can guide in taking targeted measures for reducing the risk of acute stroke in patients. It has been confirmed that nano-microbubbles can enter these plaques through the gaps in the patient's vascular endothelial cells, thereby enhancing the acquisition of ultrasound information for plaque visualization. Therefore, we aim to investigate the diagnostic value of targeted nano-microbubbles for atherosclerotic plaques. This study constructed vascular endothelial growth factor receptor-2 (VEGFR-2) targeting antibody nano-microbubbles and compared its diagnostic value with that of blank nano-microbubbles for atherosclerotic plaques. Studies have found that VEGFR-2 targeting antibody nano-microbubbles can accurately detect the position of plaques. Its detection rate, sensitivity, and specificity for plaques are higher than those of blank nano-microbubbles. Similarly, the peak intensity and average transit time of VEGFR-2 targeting antibody nano-microbubbles were greater than those of blank nano-microbubbles. Therefore, we believe that the combination of VEGFR-2 antibody and nano-microbubbles can enhance the acquisition of ultrasound information on atherosclerotic plaque neovascularization, thereby improving the early diagnosis of unstable plaque.

Citation: Wang Y, et al. Diagnosis of Atherosclerotic Plaques Using Vascular Endothelial Growth Factor Receptor-2 Targeting Antibody Nano-microbubble as Ultrasound Contrast Agent. Diagnosis of Atherosclerotic Plaques Using Vascular Endothelial Growth Factor Receptor-2 Targeting Antibody Nano-microbubble as Ultrasound Contrast Agent. 2022; 2022:6524592. doi: 10.1155/2022/6524592

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35572831/
