PMID: 35584737
Title: Surveillance After Ureteroneocystostomy: Is it Necessary?

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: To determine the utility of post-operative imaging after ureteroneocystostomy and whether long-term symptom or radiographic surveillance aided in the detection of recurrent obstruction.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Adult patients were identified who underwent a ureteroneocystostomy with or without psoas hitch or Boari flap between January 2012 and June 2021. Patients who underwent a bilateral procedure, had active malignancy or immediate failure, or did not have 6 months of follow-up with 2 imaging studies were excluded. Using the initial imaging study after stent removal, patients were categorized into normal and equivocal groups according to predefined radiologic criteria. Patients were followed longitudinally to determine whether they subsequently developed radiographic evidence of obstruction. Follow up visits were reviewed for patient symptoms suggestive of post-operative obstruction, defined as flank pain, hematuria, or pyelonephritis.
RESULTS: One hundred and twelve patients met criteria. Normal and equivocal initial imaging was seen in 99 and 13 patients, respectively. At a mean radiologic follow-up of 32 months, stricture recurrence was identified in 3 patients with normal initial imaging. No patients with initial equivocal imaging demonstrated recurrent obstruction at mean radiologic follow-up of 29 months. All patients with recurrent stricture presented with symptoms of obstruction. Of patients who developed symptoms after ureteroneocystostomy, 13.6% had recurrent stricture.
CONCLUSION: Asymptomatic patients after ureteroneocystostomy who had either normal or equivocal post-operative imaging did not benefit from additional radiologic testing in this cohort. All patients that demonstrated failure presented with symptomatic obstruction that warranted imaging. Surgeons may consider restricting surveillance imaging to symptomatic patients after the initial post-operative period.

Citation: Zebib L, et al. Surveillance After Ureteroneocystostomy: Is it Necessary?. Surveillance After Ureteroneocystostomy: Is it Necessary?. 2022; 167:224-228. doi: 10.1016/j.urology.2022.04.038

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35584737/
