PMID: 35582049
Title: Hypereosinophilic syndrome presenting as acute ischemic stroke, myocardial infarction, and arterial involvement: A case report.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Simultaneous cerebral and myocardial infarction with arterial involvement has not been reported in hypereosinophilic syndrome (HES). Here, we report a patient with HES that was also associated with acute ischemic stroke, myocardial infarction, and arterial involvement of the left common carotid artery, vertebral arteries, posterior cerebral artery, and coronary artery.
CASE SUMMARY: A 64-year-old male patient was admitted with headache and right lower extremity weakness. Laboratory tests indicated eosinophilia. Brain magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) showed bilateral and multiple acute infarcts in the border zones. Electrocardiography revealed that T wave was inverted and that the concentration of troponin I was significantly elevated above normal levels. Cardiac echocardiography showed an ejection fraction of 69% with mitral and tricuspid mild regurgitation. Computed tomography angiography detected multiple and localized instances of mild stenosis in the left common carotid artery bifurcation, bilateral vertebral arteries (V5 segment), and the posterior cerebral artery (P2 segment). These were observed together with multiple non-calcified and mixed plaques as well as luminal stenosis in the left circumflex artery, left anterior descending artery, and right coronary artery. The patient was treated with oral methylprednisolone and clopidogrel, after which the absolute eosinophil count fell rapidly to a normal level. After one month, a second brain MRI showed a partial reduction in the size and number of the lesions.
CONCLUSION: HES can masquerade as ischemic stroke, myocardial infarction, and arterial vascular involvement. The patient reported here recovered very quickly when his eosinophil blood count returned to normal. Early diagnosis and rapid reduction of eosinophils may lead to a good prognosis.

Citation: Sun RR, et al. Hypereosinophilic syndrome presenting as acute ischemic stroke, myocardial infarction, and arterial involvement: A case report. Hypereosinophilic syndrome presenting as acute ischemic stroke, myocardial infarction, and arterial involvement: A case report. 2022; 10:3547-3552. doi: 10.12998/wjcc.v10.i11.3547

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35582049/
