PMID: 35585151
Title: The first experience with fully endoscopic posterior cervical foraminotomy and discectomy for radiculopathy performed in Viet Duc University Hospital.

Abstract: The aim of the article is to present the first experience of applying a full-endoscopic posterior cervical foraminotomy and discectomy performed at Viet Duc University Hospital in Hanoi and describe the outcomes of such surgical intervention. This surgical series includes 20 patients underwent surgery through full-endoscopic posterior cervical foraminotomy and discectomy. The definitive diagnosis of the patients and the evidence for surgical treatment was radiculopathy due to lateral or intraforaminal disk herniation, foraminal stenosis, and lateral recess stenosis. Patients with discogenic cervical radiculopathy but with a contraindication to endoscopic posterior cervical foraminotomy and discectomy were not subject to surgical intervention. All patients underwent a CT and MRT examination of the cervical spine before and after surgery as complementary diagnostic methods. Besides radiological diagnostic methods, electroneuromyography and spondylography were performed with functional samples, i.e., with head tilts in the front and back, to eliminate segmental instability. The timing and degree of the root pain syndrome regression were assessed using a VAS scale (visual and analog scale) with a subsequent comparison of preoperative and postoperative performance. Immediately after the operation, all patients noted a complete or nearly complete regression of the pain syndrome.

Citation: Dinh SN and Dinh HT. The first experience with fully endoscopic posterior cervical foraminotomy and discectomy for radiculopathy performed in Viet Duc University Hospital. The first experience with fully endoscopic posterior cervical foraminotomy and discectomy for radiculopathy performed in Viet Duc University Hospital. 2022; 12:8314. doi: 10.1038/s41598-022-12493-x

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35585151/
