PMID: 35584379
Title: Efficacy and Safety of Peroral Pancreatoscopy Through the Fistula Created by Endoscopic Ultrasound-Guided Pancreaticogastrostomy.

Abstract: OBJECTIVES: Endoscopic ultrasound/endosonography-guided pancreaticogastrostomy (EUS-PGS) is a useful alternative when endoscopic retrograde pancreatography is difficult. Recently, many procedures, including peroral pancreatoscopy (POPS), have been performed through the mature fistula (MF) created by EUS-PGS. We evaluate the efficacy and safety of POPS to diagnose and treat pancreatic ductal stricture/pancreato-jejunal anastomotic stricture (PDS/PJAS) through the MF.
METHODS: Twenty patients underwent EUS-PGS; 13 of these underwent POPS through the MF at Juntendo University Hospital. All patients were studied retrospectively in terms of technical and clinical success rates and adverse events (AEs).
RESULTS: The technical and clinical success rates of EUS-PGS were 95% and 100%. The early and late AEs rates were 20% and 15%. The technical success rate of POPS was 100%, with one AE. Biopsy of PDS/PJAS under POPS guidance revealed recurrent/residual intrapapillary mucinous adenoma (3 patients) and benign fibrotic stricture (10 patients). In the latter patients, multiple plastic stents were placed to dilate PDS/PJAS. Four patients with improvement of PDS/PJAS were stent free, but the remaining patients were not yet.
CONCLUSIONS: Endoscopic ultrasound/endosonography-guided pancreaticogastrostomy and various procedures (including POPS) performed through the MF are feasible and effective and can diagnose and treat PDS/PJAS with acceptable AEs rates.

Citation: Suzuki A, et al. Efficacy and Safety of Peroral Pancreatoscopy Through the Fistula Created by Endoscopic Ultrasound-Guided Pancreaticogastrostomy. Efficacy and Safety of Peroral Pancreatoscopy Through the Fistula Created by Endoscopic Ultrasound-Guided Pancreaticogastrostomy. 2022; 51:228-233. doi: 10.1097/MPA.0000000000002003

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35584379/
