PMID: 35589254
Title: Protective mechanisms and current clinical evidence of hypothermic oxygenated machine perfusion (HOPE) in preventing post-transplant cholangiopathy.

Abstract: The development of cholangiopathies after liver transplantation impacts on the quality and duration of graft and patient survival, contributing to higher costs as numerous interventions are required to treat strictures and infections at the biliary tree. Prolonged donor warm ischaemia time in combination with additional cold storage are key risk factors for the development of biliary strictures. Based on this, the clinical implementation of dynamic preservation strategies is a current hot topic in the field of donation after circulatory death (DCD) liver transplantation. Despite various retrospective studies reporting promising results, also regarding biliary complications, there are only a few randomised-controlled trials on machine perfusion. Recently, the group from Groningen has published the first randomised-controlled trial on hypothermic oxygenated perfusion (HOPE), demonstrating a significant reduction of symptomatic ischaemic cholangiopathies with the use of a short period of HOPE before DCD liver implantation. The most likely mechanism for this important effect, also shown in several experimental studies, is based on mitochondrial reprogramming under hypothermic aerobic conditions, e.g. exposure to oxygen in the cold, with a controlled and slow metabolism of ischaemically accumulated succinate and simultaneous ATP replenishment. This unique feature prevents mitochondrial oxidative injury and further downstream tissue inflammation. HOPE treatment therefore supports livers by protecting them from ischaemia-reperfusion injury (IRI), and thereby also prevents the development of post-transplant biliary injury. With reduced IRI-associated inflammation, recipients are also protected from activation of the innate immune system, with less acute rejections seen after HOPE.

Citation: Schlegel A, et al. Protective mechanisms and current clinical evidence of hypothermic oxygenated machine perfusion (HOPE) in preventing post-transplant cholangiopathy. Protective mechanisms and current clinical evidence of hypothermic oxygenated machine perfusion (HOPE) in preventing post-transplant cholangiopathy. 2022; 76:1330-1347. doi: 10.1016/j.jhep.2022.01.024

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35589254/
