PMID: 35597059
Title: Isthmic spondylolisthesis in adults… A review of the current literature.

Abstract: Isthmic spondylolisthesis can be defined as the anterior translation of a vertebral body relative to the one subjacent to it and secondary to an abnormality of the pars interarticularis. Isthmic spondylolisthesis is usually asymptomatic and discovered as an incidental radiographic finding. However, it can be symptomatic due to its biomechanical effects on the adjacent neural structures and patients may present with low back and/or radicular leg pain. Standing plain radiographs can be obtained to confirm the presence or assess the degree of isthmic spondylolisthesis. Computed tomography (CT) clearly shows the pars defect and provides a better assessment of the pathology. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) is indicated in patients with neurologic manifestations and can be used to assess the degree of foraminal or central stenosis. Conservative management including oral anti-inflammatory medication, physical therapy, and/or transforaminal epidural corticosteroid injections can be utilized initially. Surgery can be considered in the setting of persistent symptoms unrelieved with conservative management or significant neurologic compromise. Several surgical methods and techniques are available in the management of isthmic spondylolisthesis. There has been a significant national increase in the use of interbody fusion posteriorly for the management of isthmic spondylolisthesis. Reports have suggested that interbody fusion can be a cost-effective technique in selected patients with isthmic spondylolisthesis. Future studies are encouraged to further characterize the specific indications of various surgical modalities in patients with isthmic spondylolisthesis.

Citation: Alomari S, et al. Isthmic spondylolisthesis in adults… A review of the current literature. Isthmic spondylolisthesis in adults… A review of the current literature. 2022; 101:124-130. doi: 10.1016/j.jocn.2022.04.042

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35597059/
