PMID: 35592752
Title: Transcatheter aortic valve implantation with a balloon-expandable prosthesis in a patient with single coronary artery: a case report.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Single coronary artery is a rare coronary artery anomaly with an incidence of <0.03%. The coexistence of coronary artery anomalies with severe aortic stenosis is extremely rare. Due to the singularity of the coronary artery orifice, the most concerning risk of transcatheter aortic valve implantation (TAVI) in such patients is coronary occlusion, which may very well be life-threatening.
CASE SUMMARY: An 83-year-old female complaining of chest pain was referred to our hospital for severe aortic stenosis. The multi-slice computed tomography showed a congenital single coronary artery originating from the right sinus of Valsalva. The left coronary artery branched off of the right coronary artery, and passed between the aorta and main pulmonary artery. The heart team of the hospital decided to perform TAVI via femoral artery with a balloon-expandable prosthesis, with coronary angioplasty devices on standby in case of coronary occlusion. The TAVI procedure was performed successfully without coronary occlusion.
DISCUSSION: Although there have been some case reports of TAVI in patients with single coronary artery, little is known about the safety of TAVI in such cases, and which device (such as the balloon-expandable or the self-expandable prosthesis) is preferable. From this particular case, and accumulation of past and various TAVI experience, the balloon-expandable prosthesis can be a safe device choice in carefully selected patients with coronary artery anomalies.

Citation: Furugen M, et al. Transcatheter aortic valve implantation with a balloon-expandable prosthesis in a patient with single coronary artery: a case report. Transcatheter aortic valve implantation with a balloon-expandable prosthesis in a patient with single coronary artery: a case report. 2022; 6:ytac192. doi: 10.1093/ehjcr/ytac192

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35592752/
