PMID: 35590335
Title: Superficial spreading cervical squamous cell carcinoma in situ involving the endometrium: a case report and review of the literature.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: The spread of cervical squamous cell carcinoma to the inner surface of the uterus with replacement of the endometrium is rare. Continuity of the lesion must be demonstrated to confirm superficial spread and rule out concomitant endometrial cancer.
CASE PRESENTATION: We present the case of a 66-year-old white woman with superficial spreading squamous cell carcinoma of the cervix that involved the endometrium. Her relevant past history included conization of the cervix to treat cervical intraepithelial neoplasia III with positive margins. She subsequently had three negative cervical vaginal cytology results, each with a positive high-risk human papillomavirus test. Transvaginal ultrasound showed occupation of the entire uterine cavity by dense material consistent with pyometra in addition to myometrial thinning due to tension and cervical dilation. The patient presented with greenish vaginal discharge of 3 months' duration. The cervix was not visible during speculum examination. Access for endometrial sampling was not possible, raising suspicion of post-conization cervical stenosis. The patient was treated with laparoscopic hysterectomy with double adnexectomy. Histologic examination showed superficial squamous cell carcinoma invading the cervix to a depth of 2.8 mm; superficial spreading squamous cell carcinoma in situ was also observed in the lower uterine segment and endometrium. The patient was free of symptoms 12 months after surgery.
CONCLUSIONS: Squamous cell carcinoma of the cervix with superficial spread to the endometrium is not included in the 2020 (fifth edition) World Health Organization Classification of Female Genital Tract Tumors or the 2018 International Federation of Gynecology and Obstetrics cervical cancer staging system. More clinical cases are needed to identify other prognostic factors and inform clinical practice guidelines on the management of this disease.

Citation: Martín-Vallejo J, et al. Superficial spreading cervical squamous cell carcinoma in situ involving the endometrium: a case report and review of the literature. Superficial spreading cervical squamous cell carcinoma in situ involving the endometrium: a case report and review of the literature. 2022; 16:196. doi: 10.1186/s13256-022-03433-4

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35590335/
