PMID: 35594006
Title: Laparoscopic ureteral reimplantation with a Boari flap for long-segment ureteric avulsion or ureteric strictures: our experience.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: This study was designed to evaluate the feasibility of laparoscopic ureteral reimplantation with a Boari flap for long-segment ureteric avulsion or ureteric strictures of the middle and lower ureters. By observing its curative effect and prognosis, we can provide a safer and reliable treatment option for patients with middle and lower ureteral injury.
METHODS: In this study, of the eight cases under study, five were diagnosed with long-segment ureteric strictures, one had long-segment ureteric avulsion, one was diagnosed with ureteral rupture caused by surgical injury of appendicitis, and the remaining one underwent ureterostomy after ureteral injury. The location of ureteral injury was in the middle lower segment. All eight patients underwent laparoscopic ureteral reimplantation with a Boari flap from January 2018 to October 2021. In this study, two patients were treated with a Boari bladder flap with psoas hitching. All procedures were performed by the same surgeon with over 20 years of experience in urological surgery.
RESULTS: The mean length of ureteric avulsion or ureteric strictures was 7.94 cm (range, 4-15 cm). Laparoscopic ureteral reimplantation with a Boari flap was performed successfully between 120 and 240 min. The mean duration of postoperative hospital stay was 6 days, and no major complications related to the procedure in the perioperative period occurred. Postoperative follow-up showed no obvious hydronephrosis on computed tomography urography or urinary ultrasound in all eight patients. Postoperative reexamination did not reveal any significant hydronephrosis, urinary tract infection, or ureteral reflux, and none of the postoperative renal functions were abnormal.
CONCLUSIONS: Laparoscopic ureteral reimplantation with a Boari flap is safe and feasible for experienced physicians. In our case, the length/width ratio of bladder flap is more than 4:1, with good blood supply and no obvious complications, it provides a longer alternative length.

Citation: Zhang G, et al. Laparoscopic ureteral reimplantation with a Boari flap for long-segment ureteric avulsion or ureteric strictures: our experience. Laparoscopic ureteral reimplantation with a Boari flap for long-segment ureteric avulsion or ureteric strictures: our experience. 2022; 54:1865-1870. doi: 10.1007/s11255-022-03224-2

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35594006/
