PMID: 35596814
Title: Takayasu arteritis with congestive heart failure in 26-year-old male: a case report.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Takayasu arteritis (TA) is included in large vessel vasculitis with unknown aetiopathogenesis. TA is one of the rare diseases with a predilection for young women. The diagnosis of TA is difficult due to variation in clinical presentations and non-specific initial symptoms. This case demonstrates rare TA in a young male with congestive heart failure as the predominant manifestation.
CASE PRESENTATION: We report a 26-year-old male presented with severe dyspnea, palpitation, orthopnea, paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea, and claudication in the left arm. Four limbs blood pressure discrepancy was present. Chest X-ray showed cardiomegaly with calcification aortic arch and pulmonary edema. Echocardiography revealed that left ventricular ejection fraction decreased with severe aortic and mitral valve regurgitation. Computed tomography angiography showed stenosis of the left common carotid artery and total occlusion of the left subclavian artery with collateral artery. There was vascular thickness and calcification from the peri-aortic valve, ascending aorta, aortic arch, and thoracic descending aorta until abdominal aorta with high-grade stenosis on the inferior side of the renal artery branching accompanied by a post-stenotic dilatation.
CONCLUSIONS: This patient's heart failure was precipitated by secondary hypertension and aortic regurgitation caused by vasculitis of TA. In general, there is no difference in the management of congestive heart failure in patients with TA. Optimized pharmacology therapy with combination steroid and methotrexate successfully inducing remission of TA after 3-months follow-up.

Citation: Suryono S, et al. Takayasu arteritis with congestive heart failure in 26-year-old male: a case report. Takayasu arteritis with congestive heart failure in 26-year-old male: a case report. 2022; 74:41. doi: 10.1186/s43044-022-00279-5

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35596814/
