PMID: 35592229
Title: Evaluation of Complications and Effectiveness of Snodgraft Method on the Treatment of Distal Hypospadias or Midshaft.

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: Hypospadias is one of the most common diseases of the male reproductive system. Considering the different treatment techniques for this anomaly and important complications such as fistula, meatal/neourethral stenosis, an attempt is made to use a method that has the best result and the least complication for treatment. The aim of this study was to evaluate the snodgraft method in repairing distal or midshaft hypospadias in terms of complications, beauty and effectiveness.
METHODS: In this retrospective study, conducted Oct 2018 to Oct 2020, 60 boys with distal hypospadias or midshaft who underwent the methods of Snodgraft in Imam Khomeini and Abuzar Hospitals of Ahvaz, southern Iran were enrolled. All patients were followed up and examined for postoperative complications after surgery with intervals of 1 week, 2 weeks, monthly to 6 months and then annually.
RESULTS: The mean age of patients was 30.1±11.3 months. No surgical diverticulitis or meatal stenosis was seen after surgery. Urethrocutaneous fistula was seen in 4 patients at initial follow-up, of these 4 patients, 1 spontaneous improvement was seen after 6 months. Urinary status was normal in all patients. Bleeding, hematoma and meatus stenosis were not observed in patients. In all patients, the appearance of meatus was very good and similar to normal people.
CONCLUSION: The snodgraft surgery method in repairing hypospadias is a very simple, appropriate method and with a good appearance of Glans and Meatus, and the complications of this technique are few and acceptable. To confirm our findings, prospective studies with larger sample size of patients are needed.

Citation: Peyvasteh M, et al. Evaluation of Complications and Effectiveness of Snodgraft Method on the Treatment of Distal Hypospadias or Midshaft. Evaluation of Complications and Effectiveness of Snodgraft Method on the Treatment of Distal Hypospadias or Midshaft. 2022; 11:38-43. doi: 10.52547/wjps.11.1.38

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35592229/
