PMID: 35599393
Title: [Technical difficulties and countermeasures of digestive tract reconstruction in robotic radical gastrectomy for gastric cancer].

Abstract: There still remain some problemsin digestive tract reconstruction after robotic radical gastrectomy for gastric cancer at present, such as great surgical difficulties and high technical requirements. Based on the surgical experience of the Gastric Surgery Department of Union Hospital, Fujian Medical University and the literatures at home and abroad, relevant issues are discussed in terms of robotic radical distal gastrectomy (Billroth I, Billroth II, and Roux-en-Y gastrojejunostomy), proximal gastrectomy (double-channel and double-muscle flap anastomosis), and total gastrectomy (Roux-en-Y anastomosis, functional end-to-end anastomosis, FEEA, π-anastomosis, Overlap anastomosis, and modified Overlap anastomosis with delayed amputation of jejunum, i.e. later-cut Overlap). This article mainly includes (1) The principles of digestive tract reconstruction after robotic radical gastrectomy for gastric cancer. (2) Digestive tract reconstruction after robotic radical distal gastrectomy: Aiming at the weakness of traditional triangular anastomosis, we introduce the improvement of the technical difficulty, namely "modified triangular anastomosis", and point out that because Billroth II anastomosis is a common anastomosis method in China at present, manual suture under robot is more convenient and safe, and can effectively avoid anastomotic stenosis. (3) Digestive tract reconstruction after robotic proximal gastrectomy: It mainly includes double channel anastomosis and double muscle flap anastomosis, but these reconstruction methods are relatively complicated, and robotic surgery has not been widely carried out at present. (4) Digestive tract reconstruction after robotic total gastrectomy: The most classic one is Roux-en-Y anastomosis, mainly using circular stapler for end-to-side esophagojejunal anastomosis and linear stapler for side-to-side esophagojejunal anastomosis, for which we discuss the solutions to the existing technical difficulties. With the continuous innovation of robotic surgical system and anastomosis instruments, and with the gradual improvement of anastomosis technology, it is believed that digestive tract reconstruction after robotic radical gastrectomy for gastric cancer will have a good application prospect in gastric cancer surgery.

Citation: Zheng HL, et al. [Technical difficulties and countermeasures of digestive tract reconstruction in robotic radical gastrectomy for gastric cancer]. [Technical difficulties and countermeasures of digestive tract reconstruction in robotic radical gastrectomy for gastric cancer]. 2022; 25:392-395. doi: 10.3760/cma.j.cn441530-20220304-00083

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35599393/
