PMID: 35603581
Title: Light-Activated Vascular Anastomosis.

Abstract: Background. There have been few advances in technique since vascular anastomosis was performed with silk suture on a curved needle in 1902. This technique results in disruption of the endothelium with exposed intraluminal suture, both of which may lead to thrombocyte aggregation, intimal hyperplasia, and vascular stenosis. A variety of alternative techniques have been explored, with limited success. Photochemical tissue bonding (PTB) is a light-activated methodology of rapidly cross-linking tissue interfaces at the molecular level. Herein, we describe a new technique for anastomosis of venous interposition graft in an ovine model of femoral artery bypass utilizing PTB. Methods. Polypay specific pathogen free sheep (n = 5; 40-45 kg) underwent femoral artery bypass utilizing saphenous vein. The femoral artery was transected and reversed saphenous vein was implanted as an interposition graft. The proximal anastomosis was created as a vein-over-artery cuff utilizing PTB, and the distal anastomosis was created with standard interrupted 8-0 polypropylene suture. Four weeks post-index operation, femoral angiogram was performed to evaluate patency, tortuosity, and luminal diameter. All bypass grafts were harvested and longitudinal and transverse histological sections from the proximal anastomosis were analyzed. Results. The PTB anastomoses (n = 5) were immediately watertight and patent. All animals survived the 28-day study duration. Angiography revealed patent grafts with no aneurysm or stenosis (n = 5). Histologic examination revealed integration of the venous endothelium with the arterial adventitia. Conclusion. Photochemical tissue bonding creates an immediate strong, watertight vascular anastomosis that can withstand physiologic arterial pressure and remains patent at 28 days without the need for intraluminal suture.

Citation: Scott BB, et al. Light-Activated Vascular Anastomosis. Light-Activated Vascular Anastomosis. 2023; 30:143-149. doi: 10.1177/15533506221104382

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35603581/
