PMID: 35600193
Title: Inherited thrombophilia transpires with severe coronary arterial thrombosis in wide range of age backgrounds: A report of 3 cases.

Abstract: INTRODUCTION: and importance: Protein C and S deficiency are some of the coagulation cascade disorders which may also contributes not only to venous thromboembolism (VTE), but also rarely to arterial thrombosis. Here we present a report of 3 severe coronary artery disease (CAD) cases ranging from very young to elderly patients with concomitant inherited thrombophilia.
CASE PRESENTATION: The first case was a chronic coronary syndrome from a very young male patient with history of VTE without any other risk factor of CAD. The second case was about premature CAD with triple chronic total occlusion (RCA, LCX, LAD) in patient under 45 years old, with single risk factor. The third case was about accelerated atherosclerosis progression from previously non significant stenosis in RCA into total occlusion in RCA and inferior STEMI in old patient on supposely adequate double anti platelet agent.
CLINICAL DISCUSSION: All patients had protein C and/or S deficiency and first degree family history of VTE, therefore inherited thrombophilia was diagnosed. We gave them oral anticoagulant in addition to their standard treatment for secondary prevention with good outcome and without further adverse event.
CONCLUSION: It is important to raise awareness to perform screening inherited thrombophilia as an important risk factor for CAD in special subgroup such as young age patient with rapid course progression and family history of VTE. The use of oral anticoagulants as either prophylactic or therapeutic purpose in patients with inherited thrombophilia are safe and effective. However, further research is still needed.

Citation: Bhisma MS, et al. Inherited thrombophilia transpires with severe coronary arterial thrombosis in wide range of age backgrounds: A report of 3 cases. Inherited thrombophilia transpires with severe coronary arterial thrombosis in wide range of age backgrounds: A report of 3 cases. 2022; 78:103730. doi: 10.1016/j.amsu.2022.103730

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35600193/
