PMID: 35606626
Title: Comprehensive literature review of the applications of surgical laser in benign anal conditions.

Abstract: Surgery for benign anal conditions is a common practice and is usually followed by a good outcome. The present review aimed to summarize the emergence and evolution of different laser techniques used for the treatment of benign anal conditions and report their current outcome. PubMed and Scopus were searched for studies that assessed the use of laser in benign anal conditions. Anal conditions reviewed were hemorrhoids, anal fistula, anal warts, anal stenosis, and anal fissure. The full text of the studies retrieved was summarized in a narrative and tabular form. Laser techniques used for the treatment of hemorrhoidal disease were laser open hemorrhoidectomy, laser hemorrhoidoplasty, and Doppler-guided hemorrhoidal laser dearterialization. Resolution of hemorrhoidal symptoms was reported in 72-100% of patients after laser treatment. YAG laser, fistula laser closure, and photodynamic therapy have been used for the treatment of anal fistula with success rates ranging from 20 to 92.6%. Anal warts can be treated with photodynamic therapy with or without YAG or CO2 laser with a success rate up to 88%. A few studies reported the use of laser in the treatment of chronic anal fissure and anal stenosis. The use of laser in the treatment of benign anal conditions is associated with promising outcomes. Laser was most assessed in hemorrhoidal disease and anal fistula and showed more consistent success rates with hemorrhoidal disease than with anal fistula. Preliminary reports assessed the outcome of laser treatment in other conditions as anal fissure and warts with acceptable outcomes.

Citation: Elfallal AH, et al. Comprehensive literature review of the applications of surgical laser in benign anal conditions. Comprehensive literature review of the applications of surgical laser in benign anal conditions. 2022; 37:2775-2789. doi: 10.1007/s10103-022-03577-1

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35606626/
