PMID: 35619183
Title: The feasibility and safety of cocktail treatment of triple anti-inflammatory agents loaded with gelatin sponge promotes early recovery after posterior percutaneous endoscopic cervical discectomy.

Abstract: PURPOSE: To investigate whether a cocktail therapy of dexamethasone, ropivacaine, dexmedetomidine, and vitamin B12 can achieve satisfactory pain relief and promote early functional recovery after PPECD.
METHODS: Eighty single-level patients with CDH who received PPECD were retrospectively divided into two groups: the cocktail and control groups. Clinical data were recorded and evaluated by a dedicated physician who was not involved in the patient's treatment. The primary clinical outcomes included visual analog scores (VASs) for upper limber pain and neck disability index (NDI) scores. The follow-up time points were preoperatively and postoperative 1 week, 1 month, 3 months, 6 months, and 12 months. The modified MacNab criteria was used to evaluate the surgical effect of the last follow-up.
RESULTS: The follow-up data of 74 cases were complete, except 6 cases lost to follow-up. There was no significant difference between the two groups in demographics, duration of symptoms, operation stage (p > 0.05), and operation time (80.5 ± 5.5 vs. 81.5 ± 3.5 min). The VAS in the upper limbs pain was significantly higher postoperatively than preoperatively in both groups (p < 0.05). The cocktail group had a lower VAS than the control group 1 week postoperatively (p < 0.05); however, VAS not different between groups at the remaining time points. The NDI scores were significantly better postoperatively than preoperatively, and no significant differences were seen when comparing nodes at postoperative follow-up (p > 0.05). In the control group, two cases with foraminal stenosis were found to have unrelieved pain in the early postoperative period, but the pain was relieved at the final follow-up and did not convert to open decompression surgery.
CONCLUSIONS: Cocktail treatment, in which a drug sustained-release material made of gelatin sponge was impregnated with dexamethasone, ropivacaine, dexmedetomidine and vitamin B12, facilitates pain relief and early postoperative recovery after PPECD.

Citation: Zou P, et al. The feasibility and safety of cocktail treatment of triple anti-inflammatory agents loaded with gelatin sponge promotes early recovery after posterior percutaneous endoscopic cervical discectomy. The feasibility and safety of cocktail treatment of triple anti-inflammatory agents loaded with gelatin sponge promotes early recovery after posterior percutaneous endoscopic cervical discectomy. 2022; 17:290. doi: 10.1186/s13018-022-03178-2

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35619183/
