PMID: 35612765
Title: Percutaneous closure of accidentally subclavian artery catheterization: time to change first line approach?

Abstract: PURPOSE: To present our experience and provide a literature review dissertation about the use of a suture-mediated percutaneous closure device (Perclose Proglide -PP- Abbott Vascular Inc., Santa Clara, CA, USA) to achieve hemostasis for unintended subclavian arterial catheterization during central venous line placement.
MATERIALS & METHODS: Since October 2020, we have successfully treated four consecutive patients with a central venous catheter (8 to 12 French) in the subclavian artery. In each patient, we released a PP, monitoring its efficacy by performing a subclavian angiogram and placing, as a rescue strategy, an 8 mm balloon catheter near the entry point of the misplaced catheter. Primary outcome is technical and clinical success. Technical success is defined as absence of bleeding signs at completion angiography, while clinical success is a composite endpoint defined as absence of hematoma, hemoglobin loss at 12 and 24 h, and absence of procedure-related reintervention (due to vessel stenosis, pseudoaneurysm or distal embolization).
RESULTS: Technical success was obtained in 75% of cases. In one patient a mild extravasation was resolved after 3 min of balloon catheter inflation. No early complications were observed for all patients.
CONCLUSIONS: PP showed a safe and effective therapeutic option in case of unintentional arterial cannulation. It can be considered as first-line strategy, as it does not preclude the possibility to use other endovascular approaches in case of vascular closure device failure.

Citation: Discalzi A, et al. Percutaneous closure of accidentally subclavian artery catheterization: time to change first line approach?. Percutaneous closure of accidentally subclavian artery catheterization: time to change first line approach?. 2022; 5:23. doi: 10.1186/s42155-022-00300-7

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35612765/
