PMID: 35618254
Title: Short-Term Left Ventricular Reverse Remodeling after Transcatheter Aortic Valve Replacement in Children.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: There are no published data on left ventricular (LV) reverse remodeling after transcatheter aortic valve replacement (TAVR) in children. The aim of this study was to assess changes in LV echocardiographic parameters 6 months after TAVR in children.
METHODS: This single-center, retrospective study included all 22 patients (age < 21 years) who underwent TAVR. The median age was 14.7 years (interquartile range, 13.3-15.9 years), median weight was 57 kg (interquartile range, 46.0-66.3 kg), and 59% of patients were male. Demographics, type and duration of aortic valve dysfunction, symptom and treatment data, and preprocedural and 6-month follow-up echocardiographic data (LV volume, mass, end-diastolic dimension, end-systolic dimension, ejection fraction [EF], sphericity, and longitudinal strain) were collected. Failure to reverse remodel at 6 months was defined as meeting at least two of the following: Z score ≥ 2 that was unchanged or increased from baseline for LV volume, mass, end-diastolic dimension, or end-systolic dimension; abnormally high sphericity index that was unchanged or increased; and abnormally low EF or longitudinal strain. Median, interquartile range, and range are reported for continuous variables, and pre- and post-TAVR data were compared using the Wilcoxon signed rank test.
RESULTS: Eight patients (36%) had isolated aortic stenosis, four (18%) had isolated regurgitation, and 10 had (46%) mixed disease. Twelve (55%) had symptoms and 20 (91%) had prior surgical or catheter valve interventions. The primary complication was left bundle branch block, occurring in four children (18%). At 6 months, LV volume, mass, end-diastolic dimension, end-systolic dimension, and sphericity index improved. EF and strain were normal at baseline and at follow-up. Of three patients who failed to reverse remodel, two had left bundle branch block. Of three patients with persistent symptoms, one had failure of reverse remodeling.
CONCLUSIONS: Most pediatric patients had evidence of reverse LV remodeling 6 months after TAVR, suggesting a possible alternative to surgical aortic valve replacement in this population. Functional parameters (EF and strain) were normal at baseline and follow-up. Future studies are needed to determine optimal timing of TAVR and to explore the association of postprocedural left bundle branch block on failed reverse remodeling and outcomes in this population.

Citation: Barfuss SB, et al. Short-Term Left Ventricular Reverse Remodeling after Transcatheter Aortic Valve Replacement in Children. Short-Term Left Ventricular Reverse Remodeling after Transcatheter Aortic Valve Replacement in Children. 2022; 35:1077-1083. doi: 10.1016/j.echo.2022.05.009

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35618254/
