PMID: 35621834
Title: Combining Stress Speckle Tracking with High-Sensitivity C-Reactive Protein in Diagnosis of Coronary Artery Disease.

Abstract: Introduction: CAD (coronary artery disease) is a leading cause of death and disability in developed nations. Exercise testing is recommended as a first-line diagnostic test for patients with stable angina pectoris. In addition to myocardial strain, high-sensitivity CRP (hs-CRP) can predict the presence of significant coronary artery disease. Aim of work: The purpose of this study was to demonstrate the utility of 2D-speckle tracking at rest and under stress along with hs-CRP for detection of CAD in patients who were referred to the chest pain unit with stable or low risk unstable angina pectoris. Methods: A total of 108 individuals met the inclusion criteria and gave their written consent to participate in this study. Coronary angiography was performed within 48 h after admission to the chest pain unit. Myocardial strain was recorded at rest and during dobutamine administration. Results: Global longitudinal strain at stress appeared to be moderately correlated with the presence of significant coronary artery disease (CAD); r = 0.41, p < 0.0001. A moderate correlation was also found between global longitudinal strain at stress and the severity of coronary occlusion; r = 0.62, p < 0.0001. With a cut-off value of −19.1, global longitudinal strain under stress had a sensitivity of 74.1% and a specificity of 76.7% for detecting significant CAD. Hs-CRP was significantly higher in patients with manifested CAD. Conclusion: Evaluation of longitudinal strain parameters at rest and under stress may predict coronary artery disease in patients with stable angina pectoris. A measurable Hs-CRP is a potential marker of coronary stenosis. Strain data could assist in diagnosing CAD severity.

Citation: Saleh AM, et al. Combining Stress Speckle Tracking with High-Sensitivity C-Reactive Protein in Diagnosis of Coronary Artery Disease. Combining Stress Speckle Tracking with High-Sensitivity C-Reactive Protein in Diagnosis of Coronary Artery Disease. 2022; 9:(unknown pages). doi: 10.3390/jcdd9050123

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35621834/
