PMID: 35622307
Title: Examining the expression levels of ferroptosis-related genes in angiographically determined coronary artery disease patients.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Cardiovascular diseases are the leading cause of death worldwide, with several conditions being affected by oxidative stress. Ferroptosis, recently identified programmed cell death mechanism, is relies on oxidative stress. This study aimed to determine the expressions of the genes involved in the molecular pathways of oxidative stress and ferroptosis and the association of these genes with CAD risk factors in CAD and non-CAD individuals.
METHODS AND RESULTS: The blood samples of individuals who underwent coronary angiography were collected and divided according to CAD status. Total RNA isolation was performed using the PAXgene RNA isolation kit from the whole blood samples. The mRNA expression levels of RTN3, GPX4, CAT, HMOX1, ELOVL5, SLC25A1, SLC7A11, and ACSL4 genes were determined using Real-Time PCR. Biochemical analyses were done before coronary angiography, and the results were evaluated statistically. The expression levels of the CAT gene are significantly lower in the CAD group when compared to non-CAD. HMOX1 expression levels are positively correlated with stenosis percentage, Gensini, and SYNTAX scores in the CAD group. RTN3, SLC25A1, and GPX4 mRNA expressions are correlated with HDL-C levels. Moreover, HbA1c levels and BMI, correlate negatively with ACSL4 expression in non-CAD controls. Also, ELOVL5 expression is negatively correlated with total bilirubin and direct bilirubin levels in the CAD group.
CONCLUSIONS: In this study, the genes related to oxidative stress and ferroptosis were found associated with biochemical parameters associated with CAD risk. These preliminary results may provide a new perspective to further studies investigating the reasons behind the identified associations.

Citation: Ozuynuk AS, et al. Examining the expression levels of ferroptosis-related genes in angiographically determined coronary artery disease patients. Examining the expression levels of ferroptosis-related genes in angiographically determined coronary artery disease patients. 2022; 49:7677-7686. doi: 10.1007/s11033-022-07583-y

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35622307/
