PMID: 35620505
Title: Inferiorly Based Alar Groove Flap for Correction of Alar Base Malposition and Nasal Stenosis.

Abstract: When the external nasal valve (ENV) is excessively narrow or lacks support, nasal obstruction can develop causing decreased airflow. Although cartilage grafts may support a collapsed nasal ala, addressing severe nasal stenosis requires further intervention. Techniques to move flared ala inward are well-known; however, repositioning a medially displaced alar base is less commonly described. Our surgical team developed an inferiorly based alar groove flap to achieve lateral movement of a malpositioned alar base, with goals of widening the ENV and improving nasal symmetry and cosmesis. A retrospective chart review was performed on a series of five patients over a two-year period. Charts were reviewed for demographic data, medical and surgical history, functional airway complaints, and subjective aesthetic concerns. All patients presented with unilateral ENV collapse, alar base malposition, and nostril asymmetry. Our operative method consisted of repositioning the affected alar base laterally and inferiorly to alleviate nostril stenosis and using an alar rim graft to support the ENV. Postoperatively, all patients demonstrated immediate alleviation of subjective nasal obstruction and improvement in size of ENV aperture, nostril symmetry, and overall cosmesis. Four patients showed lasting postoperative results. One patient experienced restenosis by 4 months and required revision. Our inferiorly based alar groove flap provides a reproducible solution for repositioning a medially displaced alar base. This technique reliably corrects ENV stenosis, relieves airway obstruction, and improves nasal symmetry and cosmesis.

Citation: Patel N, et al. Inferiorly Based Alar Groove Flap for Correction of Alar Base Malposition and Nasal Stenosis. Inferiorly Based Alar Groove Flap for Correction of Alar Base Malposition and Nasal Stenosis. 2022; 10:e4334. doi: 10.1097/GOX.0000000000004334

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35620505/
