PMID: 35622221
Title: Percutaneous Coronary Intervention Pre-TAVR: Current State of the Evidence.

Abstract: PURPOSE OF REVIEW: This review intends to give an up-to-date overview of the current state of evidence in the treatment of coronary artery disease (CAD) in patients undergoing transcatheter aortic valve replacement (TAVR), focusing on percutaneous coronary interventions (PCI) pre-TAVR.
RECENT FINDINGS: The recently published ACTIVATION trial is the 1st randomized trial comparing coronary revascularization (PCI) versus medical treatment in patients with significant CAD undergoing TAVR. With the caveat of several major limitations of the trial, the results of this study raised the question about the appropriateness of the common practice to routinely revascularize coronary stenosis before TAVR. Aortic valve stenosis is the most common valvular heart disease among the elderly and it often co-occurs with CAD. TAVR is increasingly considered an alternative to surgical aortic valve replacement not only in the elderly population but also in younger and lower-risk patients. The impact of co-existing CAD on clinical outcomes as well as the optimal timing of PCI in TAVR candidates is still unclear and the subject of ongoing randomized trials. Meanwhile, it is common practice in many centers to routinely perform invasive coronary angiography and PCI for significant coronary disease as part of the TAVR workup. While computed tomography angiography has emerged as a possible alternative to the invasive coronary angiography in patients with low pre-test probability for CAD, the value of functional invasive assessment of coronary lesions in the pre-TAVR setting has still to be clarified. Also, there is an increasing interest in the clinical relevance and optimal management of the potentially challenging coronary access post-TAVR, requiring further research.

Citation: Keller LS, et al. Percutaneous Coronary Intervention Pre-TAVR: Current State of the Evidence. Percutaneous Coronary Intervention Pre-TAVR: Current State of the Evidence. 2022; 24:1011-1020. doi: 10.1007/s11886-022-01717-1

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35622221/
