PMID: 35621839
Title: The Perivascular Fat Attenuation Index Improves the Diagnostic Performance for Functional Coronary Stenosis.

Abstract: Background: Coronary computed tomography angiography (CCTA) is an established first-line test in the investigation of patients with suspected coronary artery disease (CAD), while the perivascular fat attenuation index (FAI) derived from CT seems to be a feasible and efficient tool for the identification of ischemia. The association between the FAI and lesion-specific ischemia as assessed by fractional flow reserve (FFR) remains unclear. Methods: In a total of 261 patients, 294 vessels were assessed for CCTA stenosis, vessel-specific FAI, lesion-specific FAI, and plaque characteristics. The diagnostic accuracies of each parameter and the combined approach were analyzed via the receiver operating characteristic curve (ROC) with FFR as the reference standard. The determinants of FAI were statistically analyzed. Results: The cutoff values of vessel-specific FAI and lesion-specific FAI scores calculated according to the Youden index were −70.97 and −73.95 HU, respectively. No significant differences were noted between them; however, they exhibited a strong correlation. No significant differences were noted between the area under the curve (AUC) scores of vessel-specific FAI (0.677), lesion-specific FAI (0.665), and CCTA (0.607) (p > 0.05 for all) results. The addition of two FAI measures to the CCTA showed improvements in the discrimination (AUC) and reclassification ability (relative integrated discrimination improvement (IDI) and category-free net reclassification index (NRI)), vessel-specific FAI (AUC, 0.696; NRI, 49.6%; IDI, 5.9%), and lesion-specific FAI scores (AUC, 0.676; NRI, 43.3%; IDI, 5.4%); (p < 0.01 for all). Multivariate analysis revealed that low-attenuation plaque (LAP) volume was an independent predictor of two FAI measures. Conclusion: The combined approach of adding vessel-specific FAI or lesion-specific FAI scores could improve the identification of ischemia compared with CCTA alone. The LAP volume was the independent risk factor for both tools.

Citation: Yan H, et al. The Perivascular Fat Attenuation Index Improves the Diagnostic Performance for Functional Coronary Stenosis. The Perivascular Fat Attenuation Index Improves the Diagnostic Performance for Functional Coronary Stenosis. 2022; 9:(unknown pages). doi: 10.3390/jcdd9050128

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35621839/
