PMID: 35622173
Title: Percutaneous debulking strategy for severe nodular calcification in common femoral artery.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Despite marked progress in endovascular treatment (EVT) techniques and devices, calcified lesions remain one of the toughest obstacles to EVT success. Moreover, because the common femoral artery (CFA) is known as a "non-stenting zone," endovascular strategies for this area are controversial.
CASE PRESENTATION: Here we describe the technical tips for a novel, less invasive, and effective debulking strategy for severe nodular calcification using an endovascular maneuver. This technique was demonstrated in a 73-year-old man with severe calcified stenosis of the CFA. To complete a stent-less strategy for CFA, we conducted aggressive debulking of the nodular calcification, established a bidirectional approach from the radial artery and the superficial femoral artery (SFA), and inserted a balloon-guiding catheter in the SFA. Under distal protection provided by this catheter, we crushed the nodular calcification 43 times using myocardial biopsy forceps. After achieving a volume reduction of nodular calcification through this maneuver, we completed the procedure by inflating a 6-mm drug-coated balloon catheter. Final angiography demonstrated a reduced filling defect of the contrast medium in the CFA and favorable blood flow as far as the ankle. The puncture site on the SFA was closed with a vascular suture assisted by balloon inflation inside the vessel, which allowed the patient to be ambulatory immediately after the procedure without requiring bed rest.
CONCLUSIONS: Severely calcified lesions in the CFA are usually difficult to treat using an endovascular strategy, but our novel and less invasive method may become a promising technique for managing these lesions.

Citation: Nomura T, et al. Percutaneous debulking strategy for severe nodular calcification in common femoral artery. Percutaneous debulking strategy for severe nodular calcification in common femoral artery. 2022; 5:25. doi: 10.1186/s42155-022-00301-6

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35622173/
