PMID: 35623935
Title: Evolving concepts in the management of antithrombotic therapy in patients undergoing transcatheter aortic valve implantation.

Abstract: Thromboembolic and bleeding complications negatively impact recovery and survival after transcatheter aortic valve implantation (TAVI). Particularly, there is a considerable risk of ischaemic stroke and vascular access related bleeding, as well as spontaneous gastro-intestinal bleeding. Therefore, benefit and harm of antithrombotic therapy should be carefully balanced. This review summarizes current evidence on peri- and post-procedural antithrombotic treatment. Indeed, in recent years, the management of antithrombotic therapy after TAVI has evolved from intensive, expert opinion-based strategies, towards a deescalated, evidence-based approach. Besides per procedural administration of unfractionated heparin, this encompasses single antiplatelet therapy in patients without a concomitant indication for oral anticoagulation (OAC); and OAC monotherapy in patients with such indication, mainly being atrial fibrillation. Combination therapy should generally be avoided to reduce bleeding risk, except after recent coronary stenting where a period of dual antiplatelet therapy (aspirin plus P2Y12-inhibitor) or P2Y12-inhibitor plus OAC (in patients with an independent indication for OAC) is recommended to prevent stent thrombosis. This new paradigm in which reduced antithrombotic intensity leads to improved patient safety, without a loss of efficacy, may be particularly suitable for elderly and fragile patients. Whether this holds in upcoming populations of younger and lower-risk patients and in specific populations as patients with subclinical valve thrombosis, is yet to be proven. Finally, whether less intensive or alternative approaches should be also applied for the periprocedural management of the antithrombotic therapy, has to be determined by ongoing and future studies.

Citation: van Ginkel DJ, et al. Evolving concepts in the management of antithrombotic therapy in patients undergoing transcatheter aortic valve implantation. Evolving concepts in the management of antithrombotic therapy in patients undergoing transcatheter aortic valve implantation. 2022; 101:14-20. doi: 10.1016/j.ejim.2022.05.002

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35623935/
