PMID: 35629130
Title: An Individualized Approach of Multidisciplinary Heart Team for Myocardial Revascularization and Valvular Heart Disease-State of Art.

Abstract: The multidisciplinary Heart Team (HT) remains the standard of care for highly-burdened patients with coronary artery disease (CAD) and valvular heart disease (VHD) and is widely adopted in the medical community and supported by European and American guidelines. An approach of highly-experienced specialists, taking into account numerous clinical factors, risk assessment, long-term prognosis and patients preferences seems to be the most rational option for individuals with. Some studies suggest that HT management may positively impact adherence to current recommendations and encourage the incorporation of patient preferences through the use of shared-decision making. Evidence from randomized-controlled trials are scarce and we still have to satisfy with observational studies. Furthermore, we still do not know how HT should cooperate, what goals are desired and most importantly, how HT decisions affect long-term outcomes and patient's satisfaction. This review aimed to comprehensively discuss the available evidence establishing the role of HT for providing optimal care for patients with CAD and VHD. We believe that the need for research to recognize the HT definition and range of its functioning is an important issue for further exploration. Improved techniques of interventional cardiology, minimally-invasive surgeries and new drugs determine future perspectives of HT conceptualization, but also add new issues to the complexity of HT cooperation. Regardless of which direction HT has evolved, its concept should be continued and refined to improve healthcare standards.

Citation: Jonik S, et al. An Individualized Approach of Multidisciplinary Heart Team for Myocardial Revascularization and Valvular Heart Disease-State of Art. An Individualized Approach of Multidisciplinary Heart Team for Myocardial Revascularization and Valvular Heart Disease-State of Art. 2022; 12:(unknown pages). doi: 10.3390/jpm12050705

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35629130/
