PMID: 35634190
Title: Essential updates 2020/2021: Colorectal diseases (benign)-Current topics in the surgical and medical treatment of benign colorectal diseases.

Abstract: The development of new drugs for inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) is remarkable, and treatment strategies using multiple agents and various techniques are required; however, the treatment strategy is likely to be complex. Therefore, appropriate evaluation of traditional surgical treatment strategies and accurate knowledge of the efficacy and limitations of novel treatments are required. Total infectious complications were found to be associated with the use of corticosteroids and anti-tumor necrosis factor-α agents, but not with immunomodulators, anti-integrin agents, and 5-aminosalicylic acid. Regarding surgical procedures for IBD, conceived anastomosis methods, including Kono-S for Crohn's disease stenosis, are associated with better outcomes than conventional techniques. Autologous cell transplantation for Crohn's fistulae has been shown to have a favorable outcome. Diverticulitis is increasing and will be treated more frequently in the future. Risk factors for the incidence of diverticulitis and differences in pathogenesis according to right or left side diverticulitis have been reported. Antibiotic therapy may be omitted for uncomplicated diverticulitis. Moreover, regarding surgical procedures, both bowel resection and anastomosis are associated with favorable short-term outcomes, higher stoma closure rate, and superior medical economy compared to Hartmann's procedure. Risk factors for recurrence after diverticulitis surgery may provide better postoperative follow-up. In this review, we explore the current topics of colorectal benign diseases, focusing on IBD and diverticulitis, based on clinical trials and meta-analyses from 2020-2021. This review consolidates the available knowledge and improves the quality of surgical procedures and perioperative management for IBD and diverticulitis.

Citation: Sawayama H, et al. Essential updates 2020/2021: Colorectal diseases (benign)-Current topics in the surgical and medical treatment of benign colorectal diseases. Essential updates 2020/2021: Colorectal diseases (benign)-Current topics in the surgical and medical treatment of benign colorectal diseases. 2022; 6:321-335. doi: 10.1002/ags3.12548

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35634190/
