PMID: 35631018
Title: Acute Rheumatic Fever and Rheumatic Heart Disease: Highlighting the Role of Group A Streptococcus in the Global Burden of Cardiovascular Disease.

Abstract: Group A Streptococcus (GAS) causes superficial and invasive infections and immune mediated post-infectious sequalae (including acute rheumatic fever/rheumatic heart disease). Acute rheumatic fever (ARF) and rheumatic heart disease (RHD) are important determinants of global cardiovascular morbidity and mortality. ARF is a multiorgan inflammatory disease that is triggered by GAS infection that activates the innate immune system. In susceptible hosts the response against GAS elicits autoimmune reactions targeting the heart, joints, brain, skin, and subcutaneous tissue. Repeated episodes of ARF-undetected, subclinical, or diagnosed-may progressively lead to RHD, unless prevented by periodic administration of penicillin. The recently modified Duckett Jones criteria with stratification by population risk remains relevant for the diagnosis of ARF and includes subclinical carditis detected by echocardiography as a major criterion. Chronic RHD is defined by valve regurgitation and/or stenosis that presents with complications such as arrhythmias, systemic embolism, infective endocarditis, pulmonary hypertension, heart failure, and death. RHD predominantly affects children, adolescents, and young adults in LMICs. National programs with compulsory notification of ARF/RHD are needed to highlight the role of GAS in the global burden of cardiovascular disease and to allow prioritisation of these diseases aimed at reducing health inequalities and to achieve universal health coverage.

Citation: Auala T, et al. Acute Rheumatic Fever and Rheumatic Heart Disease: Highlighting the Role of Group A Streptococcus in the Global Burden of Cardiovascular Disease. Acute Rheumatic Fever and Rheumatic Heart Disease: Highlighting the Role of Group A Streptococcus in the Global Burden of Cardiovascular Disease. 2022; 11:(unknown pages). doi: 10.3390/pathogens11050496

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35631018/
