PMID: 35640860
Title: Results associated with the health system-wide adoption of transcarotid revascularization.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: In the present report, we have detailed the results derived from the adoption of transcarotid artery revascularization (TCAR) at a large health system based in the United States.
METHODS: A retrospective review was performed of a prospectively maintained database capturing all carotid stents deployed using the ENROUTE neuroprotection device (Silk Road Medical, Sunnyvale, CA) and cerebral flow reversal. The demographics, intraoperative findings, and postoperative results were tabulated and reported.
RESULTS: From September 2017 to December 2021, 429 TCAR procedures were attempted within the Memorial Hermann Health System. Preoperatively, all the patients were either asymptomatic with >70% stenosis (66.9%) or symptomatic with >50% stenosis (33.1%). The degree of stenosis was determined using computed tomography angiography and/or duplex ultrasound. We achieved a technical success rate of 99.1%, with the failures attributed to an inability to cross the lesion, an inability to track the stent, visualization of a flow-limiting dissection, and stent maldeployment for one patient each. During the 30-day perioperative period, nine strokes (2.3%) had occurred, three of which had occurred after discharge from the index operation and before the end of the 30-day period. No patient had experienced myocardial infarction. Five patients had died in the perioperative period. Three of the deaths were related to stroke, and two were attributed to cardiopulmonary events secondary to aspiration and likely pulmonary embolus. The mean follow-up after TCAR was 14.5 ± 12.0 months. During the follow-up period, two patients had required reintervention for in-stent stenosis. Ipsilateral to the implanted carotid stent, the overall (including perioperative) stroke incidence was 2.5%. Contralateral to the stent, the stroke incidence was 0.8%. The myocardial infarction rate was 0.8% during follow-up. Mortality in our study population was 5.1% during the follow-up period.
CONCLUSIONS: After adoption of TCAR across the Memorial Hermann Health System, we found this procedure to be safe and efficacious with minimal perioperative risks comparable to the historically reported results associated with alternative carotid interventions.

Citation: Husman R, et al. Results associated with the health system-wide adoption of transcarotid revascularization. Results associated with the health system-wide adoption of transcarotid revascularization. 2022; 76:967-972. doi: 10.1016/j.jvs.2022.04.028

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35640860/
