PMID: 35640859
Title: Transcarotid artery revascularization is safe in necks with anatomy hostile for carotid endarterectomy.

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: The outcomes associated with transcarotid revascularization (TCAR) have proved to be noninferior to the historical results established for carotid endarterectomy (CEA). Therefore, TCAR has been increasingly offered to patients with neck anatomy hostile for traditional CEA. The present investigation was completed to evaluate whether a difference exists for patients undergoing TCAR in de novo anatomy with unviolated surgical planes compared with those undergoing TCAR in necks with hostile anatomy.
METHODS: The demographic data and outcomes were captured at two high-volume TCAR institutions from December 2015 to December 2021 via a query of two parallel, prospectively maintained, carotid intervention databases at these two health institutions. A hostile neck anatomy was defined as a history of previous ipsilateral neck radiation, oncologic dissection, or CEA. Univariate analysis was performed to compare the two cohorts at an α of 0.05.
RESULTS: During the inclusion period, the data from 750 TCARs were captured, including 108 procedures in hostile neck anatomy and 642 in de novo necks. No significant differences were found in the baseline comorbidity burden using the Charlson comorbidity index or the indication for revascularization. Intraoperatively, no significant increase in case complexity was observed with respect to those with a hostile neck, except for the operative time, which was 10% longer (69.5 vs 63.4 minutes; P = .01). The flow reversal and fluoroscopic times, blood loss, radiation exposure, and contrast use were identical. Postoperatively, no differences were observed between the hostile and de novo necks with respect to stroke (0.9% vs 2.5%; P = .49), myocardial infarction (0.9% vs 0.2%; P = .27), and death (0% vs 1.5%; P = .37). Additionally, hematoma formation and the need for reintervention did not seem to vary between the two groups. Similarly, no differences in the two cohorts were noted during follow-up.
CONCLUSIONS: According to the findings from our large, dual-institutional series, the performance of TCAR in surgical fields traditionally hostile for CEA was not associated with increased intraoperative complexity or postoperative morbidity.

Citation: Tanaka A, et al. Transcarotid artery revascularization is safe in necks with anatomy hostile for carotid endarterectomy. Transcarotid artery revascularization is safe in necks with anatomy hostile for carotid endarterectomy. 2022; 76:961-966. doi: 10.1016/j.jvs.2022.04.030

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35640859/
