PMID: 35659343
Title: Comparison of the levels of depression and anxiety in elderly aortic stenosis patients treated with surgical or transcatheter aortic valve replacement.

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: Currently, only a few studies have been conducted on the mental status recovery in elderly aortic stenosis (AS) patients after treatment. How transcatheter aortic valve replacement (TAVR) and surgical aortic valve replacement (SAVR) differentially impinge on the mental status of elderly AS patients is completely unknown. The present prospective study aims to investigate this question by comparing the post-treatment levels of depression and anxiety, quality of life and frailty.
METHODS: A total of 120 elderly patients (age above 70) with symptomatic AS were included, where 78 of them were treated with TAVR and 42 of them were treated with SAVR. Levels of depression and anxiety, quality of life and frailty were assessed by the Chinese version of Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale (HADS), World Health Organization Quality of Life Instrument-Older Adults Module (WHOQOL-OLD) and clinical frailty scale, respectively. Scores were recorded and compared at admission, 1 month, 4 months and 8 months after treatment.
RESULTS: Before treatment, both patient groups had similar baseline characteristics and all mental parameters. During the follow-up period, patients in the TAVR group demonstrated significant improvement in all assessed mental parameters to certain extent compared to the SAVR group. Specifically, frailty was significantly improved in the TAVR-treated patients at all three follow-up time points. Levels of depression and anxiety were significantly improved 8 months after treatment, although the remaining patient number is limited. Quality of life was only significantly improved 1 month after treatment.
CONCLUSION: TAVR may provide a better mental recovery outcome in elderly AS patients.

Citation: Sun J, et al. Comparison of the levels of depression and anxiety in elderly aortic stenosis patients treated with surgical or transcatheter aortic valve replacement. Comparison of the levels of depression and anxiety in elderly aortic stenosis patients treated with surgical or transcatheter aortic valve replacement. 2022; 17:141. doi: 10.1186/s13019-022-01888-6

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35659343/
