PMID: 35654273
Title: "Labia Majora Fasciocutaneous Flap Reconstruction in Complex Urogynecological Fistulas With Vaginal Deficit - A Versatile Approach".

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: To appraise the pivotal points of different modifications of labia majora fasciocutaneous flap in combating the challenges of complex urogynecological fistula repair in the form of 7 cases.
METHODS: Seven patients with complex urogynecological fistulas with vaginal deficit were treated over last 3 years. The challenges associated with them were non-capacious rigid vagina, irradiated and inflamed surrounding tissues, inelasticity, long-standing fistula with radiation-induced vesicovaginal fistula(VVF), an iatrogenic urethrovaginal fistula with anterior vaginal wall loss with vaginal stenosis, and a case of vesicolabial fistula with a history of forceps delivery and transvaginal VVF repair. Transvaginal repair with labia majora fasciocutaneous flap along with fat pad with relevant technical modifications was contemplated in all.
RESULTS: All radiation-induced VVF patients demonstrated no leak in the postoperative period barring one who became dry after transvaginal colpocleisis later. The patient with urethrovaginal fistula and vaginal stenosis was continent, had capacious vagina, and without any leak with regular menstrual periods. The female with vesicolabial fistula remained dry at the end of 6-month follow-up.
CONCLUSION: Transvaginal repair using the labia majora fasciocutaneous flap and the demonstrated technical modifications can be a feasible option in repairing complex urogynaecological fistulas associated with vaginal wall deficit.

Citation: Gupta P, et al. "Labia Majora Fasciocutaneous Flap Reconstruction in Complex Urogynecological Fistulas With Vaginal Deficit - A Versatile Approach". "Labia Majora Fasciocutaneous Flap Reconstruction in Complex Urogynecological Fistulas With Vaginal Deficit - A Versatile Approach". 2022; 167:241-246. doi: 10.1016/j.urology.2022.05.017

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35654273/
