PMID: 35652332
Title: Carotid Siphon Calcification Predicts the Symptomatic Progression in Branch Artery Disease With Intracranial Artery Stenosis-Brief Report.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Arterial calcification in the aortic arch, carotid bifurcation, or siphon on computed tomography was associated with cardiovascular disease. The association between arterial calcification prevalence and progression of branch atheromatous disease (BAD) in intracranial artery atherosclerosis was little investigated.
METHODS: This study included 310 patients with ischemic stroke from one stroke center. Patients were divided into BAD (110) and non-BAD groups (200). Baseline characteristics, lipids, and arterial calcification were measured. The primary outcome was the prevalence of arterial calcification in BAD progression, and the secondary outcome was the prevalence of calcification in arterial stenosis. The association or correlation among calcification prevalence, lipid markers, and BAD progression was analyzed using logistic regression, receiver operating characteristic curve, and linear regression.
RESULTS: Our study found that carotid siphon calcification on computed angiography was more prevalent (P=0.01) in patients with BAD and also more prevalent (P&lt;0.001) in intracranial artery stenosis, and its computed tomography values could independently predict the symptomatic progression (P=0.01). Furthermore, a strong linear correlation between oxidized lipid and calcification density was found (beta=-0.73, P=0.0048) in patients with BAD, a subtype (B-type) of intracranial arterial atherosclerotic disease.
CONCLUSIONS: We found that carotid siphon calcification was associated with BAD and its computed tomography values could predict the symptomatic progression in patients with intracranial arterial atherosclerotic disease and BAD, indicating the important role of carotid calcification in B-type intracranial arterial atherosclerotic disease.
REGISTRATION: URL: http://www.chictr.org.cn; Unique identifier: ChiCTR1800018315.

Citation: Hou D, et al. Carotid Siphon Calcification Predicts the Symptomatic Progression in Branch Artery Disease With Intracranial Artery Stenosis-Brief Report. Carotid Siphon Calcification Predicts the Symptomatic Progression in Branch Artery Disease With Intracranial Artery Stenosis-Brief Report. 2022; 42:1094-1101. doi: 10.1161/ATVBAHA.122.317670

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35652332/
