PMID: 35654849
Title: Spinal canal stenosis in children with achondroplasia: the role of augmentation laminoplasty-a 15-year single institution experience.

Abstract: PURPOSE: Achondroplasia typically results in compressive spinal canal stenosis in one-third of children, but rare under the age of 15 years. Laminectomy is the mainstay of treatment but this leads to instability and progressive deformity requiring complex fixation. In order to reduce that risk, we developed a novel modified augmented laminoplasty that increases spinal canal diameter while preserving the posterior column stability.
METHODS: All laminoplasty cases for spinal compressive achondroplasia from 2006 to 2020 were included. Ten augmentation laminoplasty procedures were performed in 7 children with regular clinical and radiological post-operative follow-up. Kyphotic deformity and clinical outcomes (neurological and urological) were evaluated.
RESULTS: At presentation, clinical features included radiculopathy, neurogenic claudication or acute cauda equina compression with sphincter dysfunction. The average age at initial surgery was 11.2 (range 5-16) with a mean follow-up of 5 (range 2-8) years. All patients demonstrated improvement in neurogenic claudication symptoms after surgery; however, bladder dysfunction persisted in some children. In one child, cervical and lumbar augmentation laminoplasties were performed for concomitant disease. Augmentation laminoplasty effectively prevented deformity progression over time in all cases except one where a further revision laminoplasty with extension was required for screw loosening. Despite this, progressive symptomatic kyphotic deformity led to a 360° fixation. Minor complications included one dural breach (repaired intraoperatively) and one superficial wound infection.
CONCLUSION: Augmentation laminoplasty is a viable surgical option following laminectomy in achondroplasia patients as an alternative to surgical fixation. Fixation can be reserved for cases where there is progressive deformity and kyphosis.

Citation: Afshari FT, et al. Spinal canal stenosis in children with achondroplasia: the role of augmentation laminoplasty-a 15-year single institution experience. Spinal canal stenosis in children with achondroplasia: the role of augmentation laminoplasty-a 15-year single institution experience. 2023; 39:229-237. doi: 10.1007/s00381-022-05566-9

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35654849/
