PMID: 35661544
Title: "Recycling" A Failed Superficial Temporal Artery Indirect Bypass into a Double Barrel Direct Bypass in Moyamoya Disease.

Abstract: OBJECTIVES: Moyamoya disease is an idiopathic cerebrovascular disorder in which patients experience recurrent transient ischemic attacks, ischemic or hemorrhagic strokes, headaches, and seizures from progressive stenosis of the vessels of the anterior circulation. The mainstay of treatment in symptomatic patients is surgical revascularization. Here, we present the case of a moyamoya patient in which a failed encephaloduroarteriosynangiosis, after new strokes, is recycled and converted into a combined "double barrel" direct superficial temporal artery to middle cerebral artery bypass with included video.
CASE REPORT/RESULTS: We describe a 37-year-old woman with a history of hypertension, obstructive sleep apnea, celiac disease, and moyamoya disease complicated by multiple ischemic strokes who presented with progressive dysarthria, dysphagia, and new left-sided ischemic infarcts. The patient had previously undergone right-sided direct bypass and left-sided encephaloduroarteriosynangiosis in the setting of multiple ischemic strokes. After more strokes, the patient underwent a left-sided frontotemporoparietal craniotomy for conversion of the failed indirect bypass into a "double barrel" direct bypass.
CONCLUSIONS: The literature is divided over which revascularization procedure should be preferred. Irrespectively, most failed bypass grafts are repaired via direct bypasses, to good effect. We highlight a case in which a failed indirect bypass is directly incorporated into a combined direct bypass with resulting restoration of blood flow. In the case of a failed indirect bypass in an adult patient with moyamoya disease, this method provides the operator with an additional option for restoration of perfusion, especially in patients without other viable vessels available for anastomosis.

Citation: Yearley AG, et al. "Recycling" A Failed Superficial Temporal Artery Indirect Bypass into a Double Barrel Direct Bypass in Moyamoya Disease. "Recycling" A Failed Superficial Temporal Artery Indirect Bypass into a Double Barrel Direct Bypass in Moyamoya Disease. 2022; 31:106581. doi: 10.1016/j.jstrokecerebrovasdis.2022.106581

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35661544/
