PMID: 35663622
Title: Rationale and design of SAVI-AoS: A physiologic study of patients with symptomatic moderate aortic valve stenosis and preserved left ventricular ejection fraction.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Moderate aortic valve stenosis occurs twice as often as severe aortic stenosis (AS) and carries a similarly poor prognosis. Current European and American guidelines offer limited insight into moderate AS (MAS) patients with unexplained symptoms. Measuring valve physiology at rest while most patients experience symptoms during exertion might represent a conceptual limitation in the current grading of AS severity. The stress aortic valve index (SAVI) may delineate hemodynamically significant AS among patients with MAS.
OBJECTIVES: To investigate the diagnostic value of SAVI in symptomatic MAS patients with normal left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF ≥ 50%): aortic valve area (AVA) &gt; 1 cm2 plus either mean valve gradient (MG) 15-39 mmHg or maximal aortic valve velocity (AOV max) 2.5-3.9 m/s. Short-term objectives include associations with symptom burden, functional capacity, and cardiac biomarkers. Long-term objectives include clinical outcomes.
METHODS AND RESULTS: Multicenter, non-blinded, observational cohort. AS severity will be graded invasively (aortic valve pressure measurements with dobutamine stress testing for SAVI) and non-invasively (echocardiography during dobutamine and exercise stress). Computed tomography (CT) of the aortic valve will be scored for calcium, and hemodynamics simulated using computational fluid dynamics. Cardiac biomarkers and functional parameters will be serially monitored. The primary objective is to see how SAVI and conventional measures (MG, AVA and Vmax) correlate with clinical parameters (quality of life survey, 6-minute walk test [6MWT], and biomarkers).
CONCLUSIONS: The SAVI-AoS study will extensively evaluate patients with unexplained, symptomatic MAS to determine any added value of SAVI versus traditional, resting valve parameters.

Citation: Eerdekens R, et al. Rationale and design of SAVI-AoS: A physiologic study of patients with symptomatic moderate aortic valve stenosis and preserved left ventricular ejection fraction. Rationale and design of SAVI-AoS: A physiologic study of patients with symptomatic moderate aortic valve stenosis and preserved left ventricular ejection fraction. 2022; 41:101063. doi: 10.1016/j.ijcha.2022.101063

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35663622/
