PMID: 35664897
Title: Occult myocardial infarction due to an unusual cause: a case report of periarteritis involving the left coronary artery.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Immunoglobulin G4-related disease (IgG4-RD) is an immune-mediated condition that affects multiple organs and systems.
CASE SUMMARY: A 51-year-old man with a history of occult left apex myocardial infarction diagnosed based on electrocardiographic and echocardiographic findings underwent coronary computed tomography (CT) angiography for the evaluation of coronary artery disease; the findings revealed a soft-tissue mass that surrounded the aortic root and the distal portion of the left coronary artery. The mass was considered an inflammatory lesion; high glucose uptake on positron emission tomography/CT supported this assumption. Coronary angiography revealed 80% stenosis of the distal portion of the left anterior descending artery, which corresponded with the infarction. Intravascular ultrasound revealed hypoechoic regions outside the lumina of the stenotic segment. Based on these findings, IgG4-related periaortitis/periarteritis was suspected; the patient was accordingly treated with oral prednisone and methotrexate. At the 3-month follow-up, the periaortic mass had slightly reduced in size.
DISCUSSION: Identification and diagnosis of IgG4-related cardiovascular disease are challenging; cases with localized coronary artery involvement may be misdiagnosed as atherosclerotic coronary artery disease. Although imaging techniques, including intracoronary imaging, may aid in differential diagnosis, their sensitivity and specificity still warrant further studies. Practical criteria that facilitate diagnosis and a better understanding of the disease are required.

Citation: Liu X, et al. Occult myocardial infarction due to an unusual cause: a case report of periarteritis involving the left coronary artery. Occult myocardial infarction due to an unusual cause: a case report of periarteritis involving the left coronary artery. 2022; 6:ytac182. doi: 10.1093/ehjcr/ytac182

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35664897/
