PMID: 35673978
Title: Detection methods of synchronous colorectal lesions in proximal colon for patients with obstructive colorectal cancer: a literature review.

Abstract: INTRODUCTION: Colorectal cancer holds a high morbidity and mortality rate. As a common method for colorectal cancer detection, colonoscopy has difficulty in passing through the malignant stenosis in patients with obstructive colorectal cancer, which results in incomplete detection and missed diagnosis. The missed synchronous lesions increase the risk of metachronous cancer. Therefore, detecting proximal synchronous lesions in patients with obstructive colorectal cancer should be appreciated before operation.
AREA COVERED: This review evaluates related literature, aiming at providing clinicians with more ideas and attention for detecting proximal synchronous lesions in patients with obstructive colorectal cancer.
EXPERT OPINION: In patients with obstructive colorectal cancer, missed diagnosis of lesions proximal to the obstruction may lead to metachronous colorectal cancer. Except for preoperative colonoscopy which is difficult to pass through malignant stenosis, other methods that can evaluate proximal colon segment are critical. This article introduced several preoperative, intraoperative and postoperative measures for synchronous lesions detection. The choice of methods should base on patients' conditions, aiming at a high diagnostic yield and low risk. Early detection and resection of synchronous lesions in the proximal section of malignant obstruction are expected to minimize the risk of metachronous colorectal cancer and even effect follow-up treatment strategy, which deserves the attention of clinicians.

Citation: Hao Q, et al. Detection methods of synchronous colorectal lesions in proximal colon for patients with obstructive colorectal cancer: a literature review. Detection methods of synchronous colorectal lesions in proximal colon for patients with obstructive colorectal cancer: a literature review. 2022; 16:511-519. doi: 10.1080/17474124.2022.2085555

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35673978/
