PMID: 35676323
Title: Phase I 270° single-incision percutaneous spinal endoscopy for decompression treatment of thoracic spinal stenosis.

Abstract: This study aimed to explore the feasibility of Phase I percutaneous spinal endoscopy with a 270° single incision in the ventral and dorsal dura mater for decompression treatment of thoracic spinal stenosis (TSS). Phase I percutaneous spinal endoscopy with a two-path (posterior and posterolateral approaches) single incision with a 270° decompression was performed in four cases of TSS with compression in the ventral and dorsal dura mater. The affected intervertebral space was located during the surgery, and the ossified ligamentum flavum in the ventral and dorsal dura mater was removed via laminectomy, which formed a decompression space in the thoracic cord. Next, posterolateral transforaminal expansion and plasty were performed to remove the ventral intervertebral disk. The visual analogue scale (VAS) score, thoracic spinal cord function score of the Japanese Orthopaedic Association (JOA) (11-point method), and Oswestry Disability Index (ODI) scores were used to evaluate the clinical efficacy. No dura mater or thoracic nerve injury occurred during the surgery. The symptoms of weakness in the lower extremities improved after the surgery. The postoperative magnetic resonance imaging and computed tomography examinations showed compression removal and dura mater bulging. The postoperative VAS, JOA, and ODI scores improved compared with the preoperative scores. Two surgical trajectories, posterior and posterolateral approaches, were established by a single incision using thoracic spinal canal decompression with Phase I 270° single-incision percutaneous spinal endoscopy. The posterior approach was performed mainly by translaminar unilateral fenestration and bilateral decompression in the ventral and dorsal dura mater, whereas the posterolateral approach was performed by decompression in the ventral dura mater to the midline of the vertebrae. This surgical method could be applied as a safe and feasible minimally invasive treatment for TSS with compression on both the ventral and dorsal dura mater.

Citation: Li Y, et al. Phase I 270° single-incision percutaneous spinal endoscopy for decompression treatment of thoracic spinal stenosis. Phase I 270° single-incision percutaneous spinal endoscopy for decompression treatment of thoracic spinal stenosis. 2022; 12:9448. doi: 10.1038/s41598-022-13666-4

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35676323/
