PMID: 35686532
Title: Clinical outcomes following single access transfemoral transcatheter aortic valve implantation.

Abstract: OBJECTIVES: We describe the first experience using calcification of anatomical landmarks to obviate the need for transcatheter aortic valve implantation (TAVI) alignment aortography and secondary TAVI access.
BACKGROUND: TAVI alignment conventionally involves secondary femoral access for contrast aortography using a second catheter. Secondary femoral access accounts for up to 25% of all vascular complications. Heavily calcified aortic leaflets are often visible fluoroscopically and can act as markers for TAVI alignment.
METHODS: We considered 100 consecutive patients for transfemoral TAVI. The first group was considered for a conventional dual access technique and the subsequent group was considered for a single access technique. Relevant baseline, and procedural and outcome measures were recorded.
RESULTS: Baseline characteristics were comparable between groups. Balloon-expandable transcatheter heart valves (THV) were used in all cases. THV implantation was successful in 100% of cases with no procedural or in-hospital mortality. Procedural time and contrast use were lower in the single access group. There were no Valve Academic Research Consortium (VARC)-2 major vascular complications with the single access technique.
CONCLUSIONS: This is the first study describing the use of calcification of anatomical landmarks to obviate the need for secondary TAVI access. Notable observations included successful device implantation in all cases, no VARC-2 major vascular complications, comparable rates of paravalvular leak and permanent pacemaker requirement, shorter procedural times, and lower contrast use. Single access TAVI is a viable alternative technique to minimize vascular access, contrast use, and procedural duration in experienced centers and with selected patients, allowing successful device implantation and low complication rates while further streamlining TAVI workflow.

Citation: Aroney NP, et al. Clinical outcomes following single access transfemoral transcatheter aortic valve implantation. Clinical outcomes following single access transfemoral transcatheter aortic valve implantation. 2022; 100:227-232. doi: 10.1002/ccd.30246

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35686532/
