PMID: 35680386
Title: Potential Anti-Inflammatory and Anti-Coagulation Effects of One-Time Application of Remote Ischemic Conditioning in Patients With Subacute/Chronic Cerebral Arteriostenosis and Venostenosis.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Remote ischemic conditioning (RIC) is an extremely simple, non-invasive, and cost-effective method with a neuroprotective effect. This study aimed to evaluate the immediate effects of one-time application of RIC on inflammation and coagulation in patients with chronic cerebral vascular stenosis, and compare the different effects of RIC on cerebral arteriostenosis and cerebral venostenosis.
METHOD: A total of 47 patients with defined cerebral arteriostenosis (n=21) or venostenosis (n=26) were prospectively enrolled. RIC intervention was given once with 5 cycles of inflating and deflating for 5 minutes alternately. Blood was sampled 5 minutes before and after RIC for inflammatory and thrombophilia biomarkers. Differences in inflammatory and thrombotic variables at differing time points in the group were assessed using paired t tests or Wilcoxon matched-pairs signed-rank test.
RESULTS: Patients with cerebral arteriostenosis had a higher level of pre-RIC neutrophil-to-lymphocyte ratio ( P =0.034), high-sensitivity C-reactive protein ( P =0.037), and fibrinogen ( P =0.002) than that with cerebral venostenosis. In the arterial group, levels of fibrinogen ( P =0.023) decreased, and interleukin-6 levels were elevated ( P =0.019) after a single RIC. Age was negatively related to interleukin-6, C-reactive protein, and fibrinogen.
CONCLUSION: One-time RIC interventions may show seemingly coexisted proinflammatory and anti-coagulation effects of a single bout on patients with cerebral arteriostenosis. Older age was a negative predictor for multiple biomarkers in the cerebral arteriostensosis group. The protective effect of RIC on cerebral venostenosis patients needs to be further studied in a larger sample size.

Citation: Song SY, et al. Potential Anti-Inflammatory and Anti-Coagulation Effects of One-Time Application of Remote Ischemic Conditioning in Patients With Subacute/Chronic Cerebral Arteriostenosis and Venostenosis. Potential Anti-Inflammatory and Anti-Coagulation Effects of One-Time Application of Remote Ischemic Conditioning in Patients With Subacute/Chronic Cerebral Arteriostenosis and Venostenosis. 2022; 27:324-332. doi: 10.1097/NRL.0000000000000425

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35680386/
