PMID: 35687016
Title: Successful Management of Esophageal Perforation by Intraoperative Microscopy and Esophagoscopic Assistance: A Case Report.

Abstract: Surgical repair of esophageal perforation is a challenging procedure with a high risk of secondary complications, such as early esophageal leakage and late esophageal stricture, which can significantly reduce the patient's quality of life. A 34-year-old man underwent anterior cervical corpectomy decompression and fusion. On the ninth day post-operation, the patient developed fever and neck swelling. A computed tomography scan of the neck showed multiple subcutaneous pneumatosis. An esophageal perforation of approximately 1.5 cm in diameter was identified by esophagoscopy. During the operation, the fistula was first located using an esophagoscope. The distal end of the esophagoscope was then placed into the stomach to support the damaged segment of the esophagus. The esophageal mucosa was sutured under the microscope, and the perforation was successfully repaired. Postoperatively, the patient's body temperature decreased, and the infection indexes gradually returned to normal. Three months after the operation, the esophagoscopic review showed complete healing of the perforation. Esophagoscopy plays an important role in diagnosing and repairing esophageal perforations. The esophagoscope provides direct visualization of the perforation during diagnosis and detects smaller and not yet fully penetrated esophageal injuries. During the repair process, the esophagoscope immobilizes the esophagus, prevents its movement and facilitates suturing, maintains proper dilatation of the esophagus, provides space for suturing, and prevents esophageal stricture.

Citation: Chen Y, et al. Successful Management of Esophageal Perforation by Intraoperative Microscopy and Esophagoscopic Assistance: A Case Report. Successful Management of Esophageal Perforation by Intraoperative Microscopy and Esophagoscopic Assistance: A Case Report. 2022; 101:526-531. doi: 10.1177/01455613221091083

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35687016/
