PMID: 35685265
Title: The reappearance of de Winter's pattern caused by acute stent thrombosis: A case report.

Abstract: A 78-year-old man suffering from epigastric discomfort presented with an initial electrocardiogram showing complete right bundle branch block (RBBB) and ST-segment depression continuing to positive symmetrical T waves in leads V2 to V4, suggestive of de Winter's pattern. Emergent coronary angiography demonstrated 2-vessel disease with 90% stenosis in the proximal segment of the left anterior descending artery (LAD) with Thrombolysis in Myocardial Infarction (TIMI) grade 3 flow, and 75% in the mid portion and 90% in the distal portion of the right coronary artery, without collateral flow to LAD. A drug-eluting stent was deployed at the proximal LAD, and the flow of the diagonal branch deteriorated to TIMI grade 1 flow on the final angiogram. De Winter's pattern temporarily disappeared, and the procedure was finished. However, when the patient was admitted to the coronary care unit, de Winter's pattern emerged again with less severe epigastric discomfort. Subsequently, chest X-ray showed pulmonary edema in both lungs. Repeat angiography revealed acute stent thrombosis of LAD with TIMI grade 1 flow. De Winter's pattern with the combination of RBBB can be observed not only on admission but also at the time of occurrence of stent thrombosis. &lt;Learning objective: De Winter's pattern reflects thrombotic occlusion of a large coronary artery without ST-segment elevation, and can be observed not only on admission but also at the time of occurrence of stent thrombosis. Positive T waves of de Winter's pattern in the right to mid precordial leads suggest acute thrombotic occlusion of left anterior descending artery, even in the presence of right bundle branch block.&gt;.

Citation: Hayakawa A, et al. The reappearance of de Winter's pattern caused by acute stent thrombosis: A case report. The reappearance of de Winter's pattern caused by acute stent thrombosis: A case report. 2022; 25:404-407. doi: 10.1016/j.jccase.2022.01.006

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35685265/
