PMID: 35689530
Title: Usefulness of Intestinal Ultrasound to Detect Small Intestinal Stenosis in Patients With Crohn's Disease.

Abstract: OBJECTIVES: Double balloon enteroscopy (DBE) with retrograde contrast is useful as a monitoring tool for small intestinal lesions in Crohn's disease (CD), but these are burdensome for patients. Intestinal ultrasound (IUS) can be used with ease in daily clinical practice, but there is less evidence regarding the accuracy of detection of small intestinal stenosis in CD. This study aimed to examine the diagnostic power of IUS for small intestinal stenosis in patients with CD.
METHODS: The findings of DBE and IUS in 86 patients with CD with small intestinal lesions were evaluated. Using DBE as the reference standard, we examined the detection rate of IUS for small intestinal stenosis. We evaluated three parameters: luminal narrowing, prestenotic dilation, and to-and-fro movement for determining stenosis using IUS. In addition, we compared the characteristics between the stenosis-detectable and stenosis-undetectable groups by IUS.
RESULTS: Of the 86 patients, 30 had small intestinal stenosis. In IUS findings, when lesions that met two or more of the three parameters were judged as stenosis, the detection rate was 70.0% for sensitivity, 98.2% for specificity, and 88.4% for accuracy. Moreover, there were patients with a younger age at diagnosis (P < 0.05) and more ileocolonic disease location (P < 0.05) in the stenosis-detectable group by IUS. The stenoses detected by IUS were significantly longer than those undetected by IUS (14.1 mm versus 5.2 mm, P < 0.05).
CONCLUSIONS: IUS delivered reliable results for clinically important small intestinal stenosis of CD with high diagnostic accuracy.

Citation: Takeuchi K, et al. Usefulness of Intestinal Ultrasound to Detect Small Intestinal Stenosis in Patients With Crohn's Disease. Usefulness of Intestinal Ultrasound to Detect Small Intestinal Stenosis in Patients With Crohn's Disease. 2023; 42:373-383. doi: 10.1002/jum.16038

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35689530/
