PMID: 35680051
Title: Urethral Stricture/Stenosis as a Complication of High Intensity Focused Ultrasound of the Prostate (HIFU): What is the Overall Patient Experience?

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: To analyze the location and management of urethral stricture/stenosis in patients treated with High-intensity focused ultrasound (HIFU) of the prostate as well as to describe patient reported satisfaction in these men.
METHODS: Patients with a history of HIFU requesting consultation for stricture were identified from 2010 to 2020. Demographic and prior treatment data were recorded. Patients who presented for evaluation underwent retrograde cystoscopy, retrograde urethrogram, voiding cystourethrogram, and antegrade cystoscopy through a suprapubic tract. Patients who only had virtual consultation and did not present for in-person evaluation, were followed longitudinally to assess long-term outcomes and quality of life.
RESULTS: Over the 10-year study period, 17 patients were identified with a mean age of 65.8 years. Prior to initial consultation, a total of 88% of patients had at least 1 failed surgical intervention at a mean of 45 months post-HIFU. The majority of patients (94%) had strictures that included but were not necessarily limited to the prostatic urethra. Patients underwent various treatments postevaluation, favoring endoscopic therapy (38%), and proximal diversion (20%) at a mean follow-up of 68.2 ± 7.5 months. Only 38% reported satisfaction with urinary symptoms.
CONCLUSION: Urethral narrowing post-HIFU appears to overwhelmingly involve the prostatic urethra. Patients usually have a significant treatment burden over a prolonged period and are often managed with repeated endoscopic treatment, extirpative prostatic surgery, or urinary diversion as they have obstruction that is not amendable to urethral reconstruction. Most patients with HIFU strictures experience a diminished QOL due to persistent urinary symptoms.

Citation: Barham DW, et al. Urethral Stricture/Stenosis as a Complication of High Intensity Focused Ultrasound of the Prostate (HIFU): What is the Overall Patient Experience?. Urethral Stricture/Stenosis as a Complication of High Intensity Focused Ultrasound of the Prostate (HIFU): What is the Overall Patient Experience?. 2022; 167:211-217. doi: 10.1016/j.urology.2022.04.041

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35680051/
