PMID: 35685823
Title: The relationship of the changes in lateral leads I and aVL in electrocardiogram with echocardiography and coronary angiography findings in patients with acute coronary syndrome.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Electrocardiographic (ECG) study is a principle for the symptoms contributed to the acute myocardial infarction (AMI)/acute coronary syndrome (ACS). The diagnosis of involved coronary artery based on ECG changes is still a challenge. This study is aimed to evaluate the association of mere changes in I and aVL leads with the involved region found through echocardiography and involved coronary artery through angiography.
METHODS: This cross-sectional study was conducted on 100 patients referred with AMI/ACS symptoms that had mere ECG changes in I and aVL leads (ST elevation + Q wave/ST depression + inverted-T). Transthoracic echocardiography (TTE) and coronary angiography (CAG) were performed for the patients. The correlation of ECG with echocardiography and angiography was assessed.
RESULTS: Among the studied population, 39 patients (39%) were women with the mean ± standard deviation (SD) of age of 64.60 ± 9.39 years. There was no significant association between ECG changes in leads I and aVL with neither the stenosis of first diagonal (D1) coronary artery found through angiography (P = 0.580) nor the mid-anterior wall dyskinesia found through echocardiography (P = 0.380). A remarkable association between the echocardiographic findings representing mid-anterior wall ischemic dyskinesia with the stenosis of D1 coronary artery was detected (P < 0.001). The sensitivity, specificity, positive predictive value (PPV), and negative predictive value (NPV) of 100%, 54.54%, 94.68%, and 100% were respectively found as the diagnostic values of mentioned factors.
CONCLUSION: Our findings showed significant association between D1 involvement and mid-anterior dyskinesia in echocardiography, while the changes in ECG were associated neither with echocardiographic nor angiographic outcomes.

Citation: Shemirani H, et al. The relationship of the changes in lateral leads I and aVL in electrocardiogram with echocardiography and coronary angiography findings in patients with acute coronary syndrome. The relationship of the changes in lateral leads I and aVL in electrocardiogram with echocardiography and coronary angiography findings in patients with acute coronary syndrome. 2021; 17:1-6. doi: 10.22122/arya.v17i0.2105

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35685823/
