PMID: 35686520
Title: Decannulation of Tracheostomy-Dependent Patients: Results and Review of Techniques of Reconstructive Transoral Laser Microsurgery.

Abstract: OBJECTIVES: This study aims to demonstrate the benefit of reconstructive transoral laser microsurgery (R-TLM) in decannulation of tracheostomy-dependent patients with airway obstruction.
METHODS: A consecutive series of tracheostomy-dependent patients who underwent R-TLM using multiple techniques described in our previous works, were reviewed for outcomes especially for decannulation. Full airway examination was essential to determine the anatomical and functional sites of obstruction to establish the surgical plan including R-TLM techniques needed to improve airway prior to permanent decannulation.
RESULTS: Twenty-two patients were treated. Eighteen subjects were successfully decannulated. Single or multiple R-TLM surgical technique(s) was/were performed during the same surgery to treat upper airway stenosis at the level of the hypopharynx, larynx, and trachea. The mean number of surgeries per patient was 2.1. Patients were followed up for at least 12 months.
CONCLUSION: R-TLM combines different surgical techniques which can be used individually or combined in a stepwise surgical plan for permanent decannulation of tracheostomy-dependent patients with a previous history of decannulation failure secondary to airway obstruction. Accurate preoperative examination gives valuable information about airway and allows establishing a stepwise surgical plan that may need multiple surgeries for full permanent decannulation of these patients.

Citation: Baguant A, et al. Decannulation of Tracheostomy-Dependent Patients: Results and Review of Techniques of Reconstructive Transoral Laser Microsurgery. Decannulation of Tracheostomy-Dependent Patients: Results and Review of Techniques of Reconstructive Transoral Laser Microsurgery. 2023; 132:361-370. doi: 10.1177/00034894221097183

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35686520/
