PMID: 35690553
Title: Transcatheter Aortic Bioprosthesis Durability: A Single-Center Experience.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Transcatheter aortic valve implant (TAVI) is gaining momentum in the treatment of severe, symptomatic aortic valve stenosis, and its indication is expanding to lower surgical risk individuals, who are generally younger and have a long life expectancy. Therefore, transcatheter bioprostheses durability appears of critical importance. Aim of the present study is to evaluate mid-term outcomes of TAVI in a high-volume single center cohort.
METHODS: We analyzed all consecutive patients (n = 408) who underwent transfemoral TAVI at a single, high-volume center, between 2007 and 2014. Study objectives were all-cause death and bioprosthetic valve failure (BVF) at long term follow-up. Structural valve deterioration (SVD), BVF and valve-related death were defined according to current international standards. Follow-up was performed by in person visit and transthoracic echocardiography, which was obtained only in a minority of patients, or phone call as per patient preference.
RESULTS: At a median follow-up of 1821 days, overall mortality was 64.5%, with cardiovascular disease accounting for roughly half of total deaths. Valve-related deaths occurred in 10 patients. Seventeen patients were diagnosed with BVF, and 15 required repeat intervention. Moderate and severe SVD were observed in 10 and 7 patients, respectively. In the subgroup of patients with echocardiographic mid-term follow-up (n = 76), no significant increase of transprosthetic gradients nor increase of significant regurgitation was detected.
CONCLUSION: In the present unselected, all-comers cohort, TAVI bioprostheses appeared to have excellent durability at long-term follow-up.

Citation: Moroni F, et al. Transcatheter Aortic Bioprosthesis Durability: A Single-Center Experience. Transcatheter Aortic Bioprosthesis Durability: A Single-Center Experience. 2022; 43:1-6. doi: 10.1016/j.carrev.2022.05.011

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35690553/
