PMID: 35696593
Title: Short-term Endoscopic Outcomes of Balloon and Rigid Bronchoplasty in the Management of Benign Subglottic and Tracheal Stenosis.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Endoscopic therapies are firmly established in the management algorithm of benign subglottic and tracheal stenosis (SGTS). The optimal dilation strategy, however, has yet to be elucidated. The objective of this study was to compare the efficacy and safety of balloon versus rigid bronchoplasty in the treatment of benign SGTS.
METHODS: De novo cases of benign SGTS at our institution over a 9-year period were retrospectively identified. Patients were divided into 2 groups based on the initial dilation strategy of balloon or rigid bronchoplasty. Demographics, clinical findings, concurrent interventions, lesion characteristics, and complications were analyzed. Two reviewers independently assigned an index and follow-up endoscopic stenosis grade for each case. The mean stenosis grade at follow-up in both groups was then calculated and compared.
RESULTS: Sixty-three patients with benign SGTS were included. Most stenoses in the rigid (80%) and balloon (63%) bronchoplasty groups were complex ( P =0.174). In addition, 94% (59/63) of index stenoses were classified as Cotton Myer Grade 3. At follow-up, no significant difference was found in the mean stenosis grade between dilation strategies (1.97 vs. 2.2, P =0.287). Furthermore, no procedural-related complications were observed in either group.
CONCLUSION: Balloon and rigid bronchoplasty are safe and effective endoscopic tools in the early management of benign SGTS. A multimodality approach centered around mucosal sparing techniques remains vitally important to the overall and likely long-term success of treating this challenging disease entity.

Citation: Di Felice C, et al. Short-term Endoscopic Outcomes of Balloon and Rigid Bronchoplasty in the Management of Benign Subglottic and Tracheal Stenosis. Short-term Endoscopic Outcomes of Balloon and Rigid Bronchoplasty in the Management of Benign Subglottic and Tracheal Stenosis. 2023; 30:54-59. doi: 10.1097/LBR.0000000000000852

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35696593/
