PMID: 35697039
Title: The Negative Prognostic Role of Inflammatory Biomarkers in Patients With Chronic Cerebrospinal Venous Insufficiency.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: The pathologic consequences of inflammatory responses in chronic cerebrospinal venous insufficiency (CCSVI) remains poorly understood. Hence, this study was aimed to evaluate the peripheral inflammatory biomarkers in patients with intracranial and extracranial CCSVI pathology. In addition, the relationship between inflammatory cytokine profile and CCSVI prognosis was also evaluated.
METHODS: Patients diagnosed with CCSVI between July 2017 and July 2019 were included and subsequently divided into 3 groups based on the location of stenosis. The inflammatory biomarker assay included neutrophil-to-lymphocyte ratios (NLRs), platelet-to-lymphocyte ratios (PLRs), red blood cell distribution widths (RDW), C-reactive protein (CRP) levels, interleukin-6 (IL-6) levels, and neuron-specific enolase levels. Clinical outcomes were assessed using the modified Rankin Scale and Patient Global Impression of Change score. Univariate and multivariate regression analyses were performed to identify significant prognostic factors for poorer outcomes. Finally, we established a nomogram based on the multivariate regression analysis.
RESULTS: We enrolled 248 patients in total, including 102 males and 146 females, with an average age of 57.85±12.28 years. Compared with patients with internal jugular vein stenosis, cerebral venous sinus stenosis (CVSS) patients were mostly younger and had been suffering from headaches and severe papilledema. Higher levels of NLR, RDW, and CRP were also observed in the CVSS group. Multivariate analysis indicated that NLR, PLR, and IL-6 were the independent prognostic factors for poor CCSVI outcomes.
CONCLUSIONS: The clinical presentations and increases in NLR, PLR, IL-6, and CRP levels could be distinctly marked in patients with CVSS-related CCSVI than that in internal jugular vein stenosis-related CCSVI, indicating poor prognostic outcomes in these patients. A proinflammatory state might be associated with CCSVI pathology.

Citation: Song SY, et al. The Negative Prognostic Role of Inflammatory Biomarkers in Patients With Chronic Cerebrospinal Venous Insufficiency. The Negative Prognostic Role of Inflammatory Biomarkers in Patients With Chronic Cerebrospinal Venous Insufficiency. 2023; 28:57-68. doi: 10.1097/NRL.0000000000000443

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35697039/
