PMID: 35690775
Title: Oesophageal reconstruction with a reversed gastric conduit for a complex oesophageal cancer patient: a case report.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: The gastric conduit is the best replacement organ for oesophageal reconstruction, but a reversed gastric conduit (RGC) is rare. Oesophageal reconstruction for oesophageal cancer patients with a previous history of complicated gastrointestinal surgery is rather difficult. Here, we report a case in which oesophageal reconstruction was successfully managed using RGC based solely on the left gastroepiploic artery supply.
CASE PRESENTATION: A 69-year-old man with oesophageal cancer had a history of endoscopic intestinal polypectomy and pylorus-preserving pancreaticoduodenectomy (PPPD). The right gastroepiploic artery and right gastric artery had been completely severed. The only supply artery that could be used for the gastric conduit was just the left gastroepiploic artery. Because of the complex history of abdominal surgery, we had no choice but to use the RGC to complete the oesophageal reconstruction, in which the gastric conduit was passed reversely through the hiatus to the oesophageal bed and layered end-to-side manual intrathoracic anastomosis with the esophagus. The patient had transient feeding problems with postoperative delayed thoracic stomach emptying but no anastomotic stenosis or thoracic stomach fistula. He was satisfied with his life and had no long-term complications. There was no significant effect on gut physiological function, and RGC could work normally.
CONCLUSIONS: Oesophageal reconstruction with RGC is a feasible procedure for complex oesophageal carcinoma that can simplify complicated surgical procedures, has less influence on gut function, is less invasive, and is safe.

Citation: Yang Y and Ma L. Oesophageal reconstruction with a reversed gastric conduit for a complex oesophageal cancer patient: a case report. Oesophageal reconstruction with a reversed gastric conduit for a complex oesophageal cancer patient: a case report. 2022; 22:225. doi: 10.1186/s12893-022-01630-y

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35690775/
