PMID: 35693283
Title: The strategy of non-intubated spontaneous ventilation anesthesia for upper tracheal surgery: a retrospective case series study.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Upper tracheal surgery is used to treat patients who with tracheal tumors or tracheal stenosis. The non-intubated spontaneous ventilation anesthesia (NSVA) may have advantages over endotracheal intubation and surgical cross-field intubation in upper tracheal surgery. This study aimed to illustrate and assess the feasibility of NSVA strategy for upper tracheal surgery.
METHODS: This is a retrospective case series study in which 51 patients (from May 2015 to August 2020) who met the criteria in NSVA strategy were analyzed. Anesthesia was performed using total intravenous anesthesia (TIVA) combined with bilateral superficial cervical plexus block (CPB) or thoracic epidural anesthesia (TEA). Patients received spontaneous ventilation through laryngeal mask airway (LMA) during the surgery. Anesthesia conversion technique was applied to patients who met the anesthesia conversion criteria.
RESULTS: In total, 51 patients met the NSVA criteria and were included in this study. Forty-six out of 51 patients (90%) had TIVA + bilateral superficial CPB and five patients (10%) had TIVA + TEA + CPB. During the airway-opened period, 46 patients had stable spontaneous ventilation. Five patients need anesthesia conversion, two patients had high-frequency ventilation (HFV), and three patients required cross-field intubation. Postoperative complications occurred in seven (14%) patients, no reintubation was needed after surgery. The median postoperative hospital stay was 6.31±4.30 days.
CONCLUSIONS: This NSVA strategy includes criteria for patient selection, preoperative assessment, surgical technique, airway management, criteria and technique for anesthesia conversion. The NSVA strategy is a feasible procedure in upper tracheal surgery.

Citation: Zhou Y, et al. The strategy of non-intubated spontaneous ventilation anesthesia for upper tracheal surgery: a retrospective case series study. The strategy of non-intubated spontaneous ventilation anesthesia for upper tracheal surgery: a retrospective case series study. 2022; 11:880-889. doi: 10.21037/tlcr-22-302

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35693283/
