PMID: 35695922
Title: Prevalence of coronary calcification on preoperative computed tomography and its management in thoracic surgery.

Abstract: PURPOSE: We investigated the preoperative assessment of coronary artery calcification using computed tomography for appropriate intraoperative management to reduce the risk of perioperative cardiac complications during pulmonary resection.
METHODS: Patients (n = 665) who underwent anatomical lung resection were examined. The extent of preoperative asymptomatic coronary artery stenosis or cardiac complications in patients with coronary artery calcification was assessed. In addition, the risk factors for perioperative cardiac complications were determined.
RESULTS: Coronary artery calcification was detected in 233 (35.0%) asymptomatic patients. Nineteen (8.2%) patients with coronary artery calcification had coronary artery stenosis ≥ 75%. Percutaneous coronary intervention was performed preoperatively (n = 3) and postoperatively (n = 10), and preoperative drug intervention was performed in 10 cases. One case of severe postoperative cardiac complications and 20 cases of mild postoperative cardiac complications, including those without coronary artery calcification, occurred. Patients with calcified coronary arteries were at risk of cardiovascular complications in the perioperative period. However, patients with coronary artery calcification who underwent preoperative cardiology intervention had no significant perioperative cardiovascular complications.
CONCLUSIONS: Coronary artery calcification detected on preoperative computed tomography is a risk factor for perioperative cardiovascular complications. Early intervention may reduce the risk of such complications.

Citation: Machino R, et al. Prevalence of coronary calcification on preoperative computed tomography and its management in thoracic surgery. Prevalence of coronary calcification on preoperative computed tomography and its management in thoracic surgery. 2023; 53:62-72. doi: 10.1007/s00595-022-02532-5

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35695922/
