PMID: 35697948
Title: Fluid-structure interaction (FSI) simulation for studying the impact of atherosclerosis on hemodynamics, arterial tissue remodeling, and initiation risk of intracranial aneurysms.

Abstract: The biomechanical and hemodynamic effects of atherosclerosis on the initiation of intracranial aneurysms (IA) are not yet clearly discovered. Also, studies for the observation of hemodynamic variation due to atherosclerotic stenosis and its impact on arterial remodeling and aneurysm genesis remain a controversial field of vascular engineering. The majority of studies performed are relevant to computational fluid dynamic (CFD) simulations. CFD studies are limited in consideration of blood and arterial tissue interactions. In this work, the interaction of the blood and vessel tissue because of atherosclerotic occlusions is studied by developing a fluid and structure interaction (FSI) analysis for the first time. The FSI presents a semi-realistic simulation environment to observe how the blood and vessels' structural interactions can increase the accuracy of the biomechanical study results. In the first step, many different intracranial vessels are modeled for an investigation of the biomechanical and hemodynamic effects of atherosclerosis in arterial tissue remodeling. Three physiological conditions of an intact artery, the artery with intracranial atherosclerosis (ICAS), and an atherosclerotic aneurysm (ACA) are employed in the models with required assumptions. Finally, the obtained outputs are studied with comparative and statistical analyses according to the intact model in a normal physiological condition. The results show that existing occlusions in the cross-sectional area of the arteries play a determinative role in changing the hemodynamic behavior of the arterial segments. The undesirable variations in blood velocity and pressure throughout the vessels increase the risk of arterial tissue remodeling and aneurysm formation.

Citation: Rostam-Alilou AA, et al. Fluid-structure interaction (FSI) simulation for studying the impact of atherosclerosis on hemodynamics, arterial tissue remodeling, and initiation risk of intracranial aneurysms. Fluid-structure interaction (FSI) simulation for studying the impact of atherosclerosis on hemodynamics, arterial tissue remodeling, and initiation risk of intracranial aneurysms. 2022; 21:1393-1406. doi: 10.1007/s10237-022-01597-y

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35697948/
