PMID: 35700689
Title: Establishment of two canine models of benign airway stenosis and the effect of mitomycin C on airway stenosis.

Abstract: OBJECTIVES: Cuffed endotracheal intubation and stent implantation were employed to simulate two types of benign airway stenosis and further to analysis the different features between them from trachecscopic characteristics, gross anatomy to histopathological changes. In addition, our study explored the therapeutic effect of mitomycin C at different concentrations on granulation tissue caused by stent implantation in order to provide a new therapeutic strategy for clinical treatment of benign airway stenosis.
METHODS: Twelve beagle dogs were randomly divided into four groups, with three dogs in each group. Group A: Three beagle dogs were intubated through oral trachea after general anesthesia and cuff pressure maintained at 200 mmHg for 24 h. Group B, Group C and Group D: endotracheal coated self-expanding metal stents were placed after general anesthesia under the guidance of bronchoscope. On the Day7 after stent implantation, Group B, as control group, was injected phosphate buffer solution of 1 ml into granulation tissue at the end of stent; Group C was injected mitomycin C of 1 ml at 0.4 mg/ml and Group D was injected mitomycin C of 1 ml at 0.8 mg/ml into granulation tissue at the end of metal airway stent respectively, the same method as Group B. Bronchoscopy was used to observe tracheal lumen on the seventh day, fourteenth day and twenty-first day after modeling and pathological changes were examined on twenty-first day.
RESULTS: Two models of benign airway stenosis can be established by cuffed endotracheal intubation and stent implantation. There was tracheal rupture in the trachea cartiage ring in the cuffed endotracheal intubation group, but was't in stent implantation group. Histopathological characteristics were different between cuffed endotracheal intubation and stent implantation groups. In stent placement groups, we found that the stenosis degree of mitomycin C at 0.4 mg/ml was approximately 19%-32%, mitomycin C at 0.8 mg/ml was approximately 16%-21% and the control group was approximately 36%-47%.
CONCLUSION: The two models of canine benign tracheal stenosis induced by cuffed endotracheal intubation and stent implantation are relatively simple, reliable and reproducible and have different characteristics. Mitomycin C could inhibit proliferation of granulation tissue and attenuate the degree of airway stenosis caused by stent implantation.

Citation: Li F, et al. Establishment of two canine models of benign airway stenosis and the effect of mitomycin C on airway stenosis. Establishment of two canine models of benign airway stenosis and the effect of mitomycin C on airway stenosis. 2022; 159:111205. doi: 10.1016/j.ijporl.2022.111205

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35700689/
