PMID: 35701581
Title: Feasibility of Endovascular Recanalization in Post-Thrombotic Syndrome of Intentionally Interrupted Inferior Vena Cava.

Abstract: PURPOSE: Surgical plication of inferior vena cava was commonly used until the 1980s for prevention of pulmonary embolism, associated with high incidence of post-thrombotic syndrome (PTS). This study aims to assess the feasibility and safety of endovascular iliocaval recanalization after intentionally surgically interrupted inferior vena cava by external plicating clip.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Endovascular iliocaval recanalizations in relation to previous vena cava clip plication were extracted from the retrospective French multicentre database and further analysed. All procedure data were retrospectively reviewed, including technical aspects, technical success and outcomes (clinical response and ultrasound stent patency).
RESULTS: From 2016 to 2018, 8 patients from 4 different centres underwent endovascular iliocaval recanalization for PTS in relation to previous caval interruption by clip. Recanalization of iliocaval occlusion through the clip and stent reconstruction were successfully performed for all of them without complications. After angioplasty, plicating clip was opened in U shape (n = 3) or ovalized without significant residual stenosis (n = 5). Patency of the inferior vena cava was maintained for all patients with a mean follow-up of almost two years after stenting. All patients clinically improved.
CONCLUSIONS: In this small cases series, endovascular recanalization and stenting of surgical vena cava clip plication seem technically feasible without morbidity. Restoration of blood flow through the iliocaval occlusion, using non-invasive endovascular technique, even as late treatment may be durable, with improvement of patient's venous symptoms.
LEVEL OF EVIDENCE: 4, Short Communication.

Citation: Monnin-Bares V, et al. Feasibility of Endovascular Recanalization in Post-Thrombotic Syndrome of Intentionally Interrupted Inferior Vena Cava. Feasibility of Endovascular Recanalization in Post-Thrombotic Syndrome of Intentionally Interrupted Inferior Vena Cava. 2022; 45:1165-1172. doi: 10.1007/s00270-022-03179-y

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35701581/
