PMID: 35705165
Title: Tendons and Tendon Sheaths of the Hand - An Update on MRI.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: The tendons of the hand run in close proximity to each other and within retinacular tunnels adjacent to articular joints, while forming intersections in characteristic locations. The enclosing tendon sheaths are often sites of systemic or infectious inflammation.
METHOD: This review article outlines the different entities of tendon and tendon sheath pathology and their manifestation in the hands. Diagnostic findings in tendon and tendon sheath disorders are illustrated using MRI imaging and discussed in context with the current literature.
RESULTS AND CONCLUSION: Overuse may cause stenosis in the fibrous outer layer of the retinacula and the A1 annular ligaments as well as tendinosis. In contrast, proliferative tenosynovitis is a disease of the synovial inner layer of the tendon sheath with tendon infiltration and tendinitis. Pyogenic tenosynovitis favors the flexor compartments. Because of the narrow spaces in the hand, a high-resolution MRI technique must be used.
KEY POINTS: · Diseases of the tendons and tendon sheaths may have a mechanical, degenerative, metabolic, systemic inflammatory, or infectious etiology.. · Fibrous tunnels and bony prominences in close proximity to crossing tendons predispose to mechanical tendon irritation at typical sites of the hand.. · Stenosing tenovaginitis occurs in the fibrous layer of the extensor retinaculum or the A1 annular pulleys. The most frequent manifestations are the "trigger finger" and de Quervain disease.. · Proliferative tenosynovitis affects the synovial layer of the tendon sheaths before infiltrating the tendons. The classic representative is rheumatoid arthritis..
CITATION FORMAT: · Schmitt R, Hesse N, Grunz JP. Tendons and Tendon Sheaths of the Hand - An Update on MRI. Fortschr Röntgenstr 2022; 194: 1307 - 1321.

Citation: Schmitt R, et al. Tendons and Tendon Sheaths of the Hand - An Update on MRI. Tendons and Tendon Sheaths of the Hand - An Update on MRI. 2022; 194:1307-1321. doi: 10.1055/a-1826-1007

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35705165/
