PMID: 35702108
Title: Ultrasonic characteristics and influencing factors of atherosclerosis in diabetic patients.

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: The purpose of this research was to observe the characteristics of atherosclerosis in diabetic patients by ultrasound and analyze the factors influencing the development of atherosclerosis in these patients.
METHODS: Ninety diabetic patients treated in our hospital from January 2019 to December 2019 were enrolled in this retrospective analysis. The transcranial Doppler ultrasound (TCD) and carotid ultrasound were used to determine the presence of intracranial (stenosis) and extracranial (plaque) atherosclerosis. The differences in characteristics of different lesions and risk factors for the development of atherosclerosis were compared.
RESULTS: Ultrasound examination of the 90 enrolled patients showed that 5 (5.56%) had only intracranial artery stenosis, 30 (33.33%) had only extracranial atherosclerosis, 20 (22.22%) had intracranial artery stenosis combined with extracranial atherosclerosis, and 35 (38.89%) had no lesions. The intracranial stenosis rate (27.78%) was significantly higher than that of extracranial carotid stenosis or occlusion (2.22%) (P &lt; 0.001). Logistic regression analysis revealed that the duration of diabetes mellitus and concomitant hypertension were independent risk factors for intracranial and extracranial atherosclerosis (P &lt; 0.05). Compared with the control group, the study group showed reduced carotid plaque, decreased inflammatory response, total cholesterol (TC) and low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) as well as elevated high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL-C) (P &lt; 0.05).
CONCLUSION: Diabetic patients have a higher incidence of atherosclerosis, which is related to the duration of the diabetes mellitus and concomitant hypertension, so the monitoring of these patients needs to be strengthened. In addition, the administration of atorvastatin can better improve hyperlipidemia and slow down the development of atherosclerosis.

Citation: Zhao Y, et al. Ultrasonic characteristics and influencing factors of atherosclerosis in diabetic patients. Ultrasonic characteristics and influencing factors of atherosclerosis in diabetic patients. 2022; 14:3113-3120.

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35702108/
