PMID: 35710403
Title: Long-term postoperative outcomes of Roux-en-Y cholangiojejunostomy in patients with benign biliary stricture.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Although there are common postoperative complications, Roux-en-Y cholangiojejunostomy is still broadly used as a standard surgical procedure for patients with biliary stricture. This study aimed to explore long-term risk factors of cholangiojejunostomy in patients with biliary stricture who underwent revisional cholangiojejunostomy.
METHODS: Clinical data of 61 patients with biliary stricture undergoing revisional cholangiojejunostomy were retrospectively analyzed. These patients were classified into two groups (patients with traumatic biliary stricture and non-traumatic biliary stricture). Postoperative complications and survival time were successfully followed up.
RESULTS: Among the patients, 34 underwent revisional cholangiojejunostomy due to traumatic biliary stricture, and 27 underwent revisional cholangiojejunostomy due to non-traumatic biliary surgery. Although there was no statistical difference in most clinical data between two groups, biliary dilation or not during the first surgery, cholelithiasis or not during the first surgery, long-term complications after first surgery, cholelithiasis or not during the second surgery, identifying abnormalities during the second surgery and long-term complications after second surgery were significantly different. All patients were successfully followed up and average follow-up time for patients with traumatic and non-traumatic biliary stricture was (88.44 ± 35.67) months and (69.48 ± 36.61) months respectively. Survival analysis indicated that there was no statistical difference in overall survival between two groups. Additionally, cox proportional hazard analysis demonstrated that first preoperative bilirubin level, short-term complication after first surgery and identifying abnormalities during the second surgery were independent risk factors that may have significant effects on patients' overall survival and long-term prognosis after cholangiojejunostomy. Among the intraoperative abnormal findings, residual lesions after the first operation had significant effects on the patients overall survival in the earlier stage. Relatively, anastomotic stoma stricture and biliary output loop problems had obvious effects on patients' overall survival at later stages.
CONCLUSION: First preoperative bilirubin level, short-term complication after first surgery and abnormal findings during the second surgery were independent risk factors of revisional cholangiojejunostomy, which may affect patients' long-term survival. Therefore, surgeons should minimize incidence of postoperative complications through fully evaluating optimal operative time and standardizing surgical procedures.

Citation: Shalayiadang P, et al. Long-term postoperative outcomes of Roux-en-Y cholangiojejunostomy in patients with benign biliary stricture. Long-term postoperative outcomes of Roux-en-Y cholangiojejunostomy in patients with benign biliary stricture. 2022; 22:231. doi: 10.1186/s12893-022-01622-y

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35710403/
