PMID: 35714127
Title: Fibroblast growth factor 2 inhibits myofibroblastic activation of valvular interstitial cells.

Abstract: Heart valve disease is a growing problem worldwide. Though very common in older adults, the mechanisms behind the development of the disease aren't well understood, and at present the only therapeutic option is valve replacement. Valvular interstitial cells (VICs) may hold the answer. These cells can undergo pathological differentiation into contractile myofibroblasts or osteoblasts, leading to thickening and calcification of the valve tissue. Our study aimed to characterise the effect of fibroblast growth factor 2 (FGF-2) on the differentiation potential of VICs. We isolated VICs from diseased human valves and treated these cells with FGF-2 and TGF-β to elucidate effect of these growth factors on several myofibroblastic outcomes, in particular immunocytochemistry and gene expression. We used TGF-β as a positive control for myofibroblastic differentiation. We found that FGF-2 promotes a 'quiescent-type' morphology and inhibits the formation of α-smooth muscle actin positive myofibroblasts. FGF-2 reduced the calcification potential of VICs, with a marked reduction in the number of calcific nodules. FGF-2 interrupted the 'canonical' TGF-β signalling pathway, reducing the nuclear translocation of the SMAD2/3 complex. The panel of genes assayed revealed that FGF-2 promoted a quiescent-type pattern of gene expression, with significant downregulations in typical myofibroblast markers α smooth muscle actin, extracellular matrix proteins, and scleraxis. We did not see evidence of osteoblast differentiation: neither matrix-type calcification nor changes in osteoblast associated gene expression were observed. Our findings show that FGF-2 can reverse the myofibroblastic phenotype of VICs isolated from diseased valves and inhibit the calcification potential of these cells.

Citation: Ground M, et al. Fibroblast growth factor 2 inhibits myofibroblastic activation of valvular interstitial cells. Fibroblast growth factor 2 inhibits myofibroblastic activation of valvular interstitial cells. 2022; 17:e0270227. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0270227

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35714127/
