PMID: 35713443
Title: Effects of self-quarantine during the COVID-19 pandemic on patients with lumbar spinal stenosis: A case-control study.

Abstract: Prospective case-control studyThis study aimed to investigate the effect of self-quarantine on the changes in low back symptoms and activities of daily living (ADL) due to low physical activity because of the COVID-19 pandemic in patients with lumbar spinal stenosis (LSS).The frequency and intensity of low back and leg pain have reportedly increased in healthy subjects because of self-quarantine.Patients with LSS who self-quarantined from baseline (SQ group) were matched to controls who did not self-quarantine (non-SQ group), based on age, sex, medication, ADL, and the numeric rating scale score for low back symptoms. The change in low back symptoms, ADL, and health-related quality of life between baseline and follow-up were compared between the groups.The SQ and non-SQ group included 80 and 60 patients, respectively. Compared with the baseline, the numeric rating scale score for low back pain at follow-up in the SQ group significantly improved (P = .004, median; 1 point), but not in the non-SQ group. No significant difference was found regarding changes in leg pain or numbness. Low back pain improvement did not lead to ADL improvement. The short form 12 evaluation revealed the role/social component score in the SQ group to be significantly lower than that in the non-SQ group; no difference was found for the physical or mental components at follow-up.Self-quarantine with conservative treatment effected short-term low back pain improvement in patients with LSS. However, no improvement in ADL was found. Self-quarantine had an unfavorable impact for health-related quality of life. The effect of self-quarantine can influence the treatment results of LSS.

Citation: Hayashi K, et al. Effects of self-quarantine during the COVID-19 pandemic on patients with lumbar spinal stenosis: A case-control study. Effects of self-quarantine during the COVID-19 pandemic on patients with lumbar spinal stenosis: A case-control study. 2022; 101:e29388. doi: 10.1097/MD.0000000000029388

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35713443/
