PMID: 35715907
Title: 3D-Printed Bionic Titanium Alloy Artificial Lamina Prevents Epidural Adhesion and Restores the Stability After Laminectomy in Pigs.

Abstract: Laminectomy can cause the dura mater to adhere to the surrounding scar tissue, leading to soft spinal stenosis after surgery. Although artificial laminae are considered ideal substitutes, they present challenges such as insecure fixation and insufficient bionics. In this study, we fabricated a bionic titanium alloy artificial lamina using three-dimensional (3D)-printing technology and evaluated its adhesion prevention and stability after laminectomy in pigs. An in vitro biomechanical pull-out resistance test indicated that the pull-out strength of the artificial lamina was close to that of a single pedicle screw and was significantly higher than that of a cortical screw. In vivo animal implantation results indicated precise laminectomy and artificial lamina implantation, as well as a safe operation process with the assistance of guide plates. X-ray and computed tomography results indicated the well fixation of bionic titanium alloy artificial lamina and screws 10 weeks after laminectomy. The artificial lamina was not loosened after being removed from pigs (postoperative week 12), exhibiting good stability. Additionally, no adhesion was observed in the artificial lamina group, whereas a large amount of scar tissue in the spinal canal covered the dural surface in the control group. Thus, 3D-printed bionic titanium alloy artificial lamina can prevent epidural adhesion after laminectomy, while restoring the structural stability of the posterior complex, suggesting the potential of lamina substitutes for adhesion prevention after laminectomy.

Citation: Li J, et al. 3D-Printed Bionic Titanium Alloy Artificial Lamina Prevents Epidural Adhesion and Restores the Stability After Laminectomy in Pigs. 3D-Printed Bionic Titanium Alloy Artificial Lamina Prevents Epidural Adhesion and Restores the Stability After Laminectomy in Pigs. 2022; 18:875-883. doi: 10.1166/jbn.2022.3290

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35715907/
