PMID: 35718929
Title: Association between Bone Mineral Density and Coronary Atherosclerotic Plaque According to Plaque Composition: Registry for the Women Health Cohort for Bone, Breast, and Coronary Artery Disease Study.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Although biological links are unclear, low bone density and atherosclerosis are inversely associated. This study evaluated the association between bone mineral density (BMD) and coronary computed tomographic angiography (CCTA) findings, including coronary artery calcification (CAC) score and the presence, extent, and composition of coronary atherosclerotic plaque (CAP) in asymptomatic women.
METHODS: A symptomatic women aged ≥40 years (N=2, 100; median age, 52 years; range, 40-80 years) were selected from a retrospective observational cohort and stratified into normal, osteopenia, and osteoporosis groups according to BMD T-score grades. We evaluated CAC score and assessed the presence, extent, and stenosis severity of CAP on CCTA. Additionally, CAP was categorized as calcified, mixed, or non-calcified according to calcified component valiums (>130 Hounsfield units).
RESULTS: Osteopenia and osteoporosis were found in 28.8% and 5.3% of participants, respectively. CAC score and CAC severity significantly increased with decreased BMD grades (from normal to osteoporosis). The presence of CAP (overall, 15.6%; normal, 12.6%; osteopenia, 20.2%; osteoporosis, 28.8%; P<0.001) and number of segments with CAP significantly increased with decreased BMD grades. Furthermore, the number of segments with calcified or mixed plaques, excluding non-calcified plaques, increased with decreased BMD grades. Although most associations were attenuated or disappeared after adjusting for age and other covariates, calcified plaques showed a strong and age-independent association with BMD grades.
CONCLUSIONS: The presence and severity of CAC and CAP were significantly associated with BMD severity in asymptomatic women, particularly for the presence of calcified plaques. Further studies are required to determine the association between vascular calcification and bone health status.

Citation: Kim KM, et al. Association between Bone Mineral Density and Coronary Atherosclerotic Plaque According to Plaque Composition: Registry for the Women Health Cohort for Bone, Breast, and Coronary Artery Disease Study. Association between Bone Mineral Density and Coronary Atherosclerotic Plaque According to Plaque Composition: Registry for the Women Health Cohort for Bone, Breast, and Coronary Artery Disease Study. 2022; 29:123-131. doi: 10.11005/jbm.2022.29.2.123

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35718929/
