PMID: 35713464
Title: Volumetric computed tomography analysis for gastroduodenal and pancreaticoduodenal artery aneurysm formation: A retrospective single-center study.

Abstract: Gastroduodenal artery aneurysms (GDAA) and pancreaticoduodenal artery aneurysms (PDAA) are rare, have high rupture risks, and are located in the arcade between the celiac artery and the superior mesenteric artery. Pancreaticoduodenal artery aneurysms are associated with celiac artery stenosis, and it is hypothesized that these celiac lesions might contribute to the formation of aneurysms. In contrast, a few studies have reported an association between a gastroduodenal artery aneurysm and celiac lesions. This study aimed to investigate the potential differences between patients with gastroduodenal and pancreaticoduodenal artery aneurysms and better understand their pathogenesis.We selected patients with GDAA and PDAA who were admitted to our department between January 2010 and December 2020. Aortic wall volume, aortic wall calcification, and pancreaticoduodenal arcade volume of computed tomography images were calculated semi-manually using Horos 3.3.5.Eight GDAAs and 11 PDAAs were analyzed. Celiac lesions were found in all PDAA patients, with none in GDAA cases. Volumetry demonstrated that aortic wall volume and calcification were more prominent in the GDAA group than in the PDAA group (P = .026 and P = .049, respectively). The pancreaticoduodenal arcade volume was larger in the PDAA group (P = .002).In our study, celiac artery lesions were strongly correlated with PDAA. The volume of the pancreaticoduodenal arcade was larger in the PDAA group, and aortic wall volume and calcification were larger in the GDAA group.

Citation: Maeno R, et al. Volumetric computed tomography analysis for gastroduodenal and pancreaticoduodenal artery aneurysm formation: A retrospective single-center study. Volumetric computed tomography analysis for gastroduodenal and pancreaticoduodenal artery aneurysm formation: A retrospective single-center study. 2022; 101:e29539. doi: 10.1097/MD.0000000000029539

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35713464/
