PMID: 35714897
Title: Aortic local biomechanical properties in ascending aortic aneurysms.

Abstract: Ascending aortic aneurysm (AsAA) is a high-risk cardiovascular disease with an increased incidence over years. In this study, we compared different risk factors based on the pre-failure behavior (from a biomechanical point of view) obtained ex-vivo from an equi-biaxial tensile test. A total of 100 patients (63 ± 12 years, 72 males) with AsAA replacement, were recruited. Equi-biaxial tensile tests of AsAA walls were performed on freshly sampled aortic wall tissue after ascending aortic replacement. The aneurysmal aortic walls were divided into four quadrants (medial, anterior, lateral, and posterior) and two directions (longitudinal and circumferential) were considered. The stiffness was represented by the maximum Young modulus (MYM). Based on patient information, the following subgroups were considered: age, gender, hypertension, obesity, dyslipidemia, diabetes, smoking history, aortic insufficiency, aortic stenosis, coronary artery disease, aortic diameter and aortic valve type. In general, when the aortic diameter increased, the aortic wall became thicker. In terms of the MYM, the longitudinal direction was significantly higher than that in the circumferential direction. In the multivariant analysis, the impact factors of age (p = 0.07), smoking (p = 0.05), diabetes (p = 0.03), aortic stenosis (p = 0.02), coronary artery disease (p &lt; 10-3), and aortic diameters (p = 0.02) were significantly influencing the MYM. There was no significant MYM difference when the patients presented arterial hypertension, dyslipidemia, obesity, or bicuspid aortic valve. To conclude, the pre-failure aortic stiffness is multi-factorial, according to our population of 100 patients with AsAA. STATEMENT OF SIGNIFICANCE: Our research on the topic of "Aortic local biomechanical properties in case of ascending aortic aneurysms" is about the biomechanical properties on one hundred aortic samples according to the aortic wall quadrants and the direction. More than ten factors and risks which may impact ascending aortic aneurysms have been studied. According to our knowledge, so far, this article involved the largest population on this topic. It will be our pleasure to share this information with all the readers.

Citation: Lin S, et al. Aortic local biomechanical properties in ascending aortic aneurysms. Aortic local biomechanical properties in ascending aortic aneurysms. 2022; 149:40-50. doi: 10.1016/j.actbio.2022.06.019

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35714897/
