PMID: 35728791
Title: Comprehensive literature review on the prevalence of comorbid conditions in patients with achondroplasia.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Achondroplasia (ACH) is a rare, genetic condition and is the most common skeletal dysplasia resulting in disproportionate short stature and numerous multi-systemic comorbidities. As we enter an era of new treatment options which may impact comorbidities, it is important to understand the background rates of these events to aid evaluation of potential treatment effects. Thus, the aim of this literature review was to provide a comprehensive quantification of prevalence estimates of comorbidities in achondroplasia by age for use as a compiled reference to assist in quantifying the risk/benefit of new treatment options and informing timely management of ACH.
METHODS: PubMed and Embase databases were searched, complemented by manual bibliography searching, for peer-reviewed articles published between 1975 and 2021, guided by PRISMA principles. Number of patients and the prevalence of specific comorbidities by age were extracted. We calculated exact 95 %-confidence limits for the proportion of affected patients (prevalence) and data were presented visually using forest plots. An a priori decision was made not to utilise meta-analytic techniques to pool estimates as we intended to understand the variability in comorbidities by displaying each estimate separately.
RESULTS: The literature search identified 206 articles of which 73 were eligible for inclusion. The majority of studies (n = 34) had been conducted in the USA or in Europe (n = 20). Study designs were mostly retrospective chart reviews (n = 33) or small cohort studies (n = 19). The availability of literature on particular conditions varied but trended towards a focus on assessment and prevention of severe conditions, such as respiratory conditions in children (21 studies), neurological manifestations (16 studies) and upper spine compression (15 studies). There was substantial heterogeneity in study design, type of clinical setting, populations and use of definitions in reporting comorbidities which need to be considered when interpreting study results. Despite the variability of the studies, comorbidity patterns by age were recognizable. In infants, a high prevalence (>20 %) was found for kyphosis, a range of neurological manifestations and sleep apnea. There was also an excess mortality in infancy (4-7.8/100 person-years). Conditions identified in infancy continued to prevail in childhood. Genu varum was highly prevalent from the age children started to walk (9-75 %). Other conditions started to emerge in children; those with a high prevalence (>20 %) were hearing loss and pain. In adolescence, neurological manifestations in the arm, neck or leg were reported (~15 %), consistent with symptomatic spinal stenosis or spinal compression. Fewer studies were available in older populations, especially in adults; however limited data suggest that pain and cardiovascular conditions, particularly excess weight and obesity, became more prevalent into adulthood. Mortality rates increased again in older age-groups.
CONCLUSION: This review provides a reference base of current knowledge of the type and frequency of comorbidities in ACH. This not only allows future contextualisation of new treatment options but supports clinical decision-making on the timely medical management and intervention of ACH. This review also reflects the current medical priorities in the management of ACH, indicating a focus on pediatric care and the complex needs of individuals with ACH involving many different disciplines. Further studies into the natural history of this rare disease using more consistent definitions of comorbidities, especially into adulthood, are needed to elucidate the multi-systemic nature of this condition.

Citation: Stender M, et al. Comprehensive literature review on the prevalence of comorbid conditions in patients with achondroplasia. Comprehensive literature review on the prevalence of comorbid conditions in patients with achondroplasia. 2022; 162:116472. doi: 10.1016/j.bone.2022.116472

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35728791/
