PMID: 35727024
Title: The pulsatile 3D-Hemodynamics in a doubly afflicted human descending abdominal artery with iliac branching.

Abstract: The study of patient-specific human arterial flow dynamics is well known to face challenges like a) apt geometric modelling, b) bifurcation zone meshing, and c) capturing the hemodynamic prone to variations with multiple disease complications. Due to aneurysms and stenosis in the same arterial network, the blood flow dynamics get affected, which needs to be explored. This study develops a new protocol for accurate geometric modelling, bifurcation zone meshing and numerically investigates the arterial network with abdominal aortic aneurysms (AAA) and right internal iliac stenosis (RIIAS). A realistic arterial model is reconstructed from the computed tomography (CT) data of a human subject. To understand the combined effect of the aneurysm and aortoiliac occlusive diseases in a patient, an arterial network with AAA, RIIAS, multiple branches tapering, and curvature has been considered. Clinically significant pulsatile blood flow simulations have been carried out to trace the alteration in the flow dynamics with multiple pathological complications under consideration. The transient blood flow dynamics are investigated via wall shear stress, wall pressure, velocity contour, streamlines, vorticity, and swirling strength. During the systolic deceleration phase, the rhythmic nested rapid secondary oscillatory WSS, adverse pressure gradients, high WSS, and high WP bands are noticed. Also, the above studies will help researchers, clinicians, and doctors understand the influence of morphological changes on hemodynamics in cardiovascular studies.

Citation: Kumar S, et al. The pulsatile 3D-Hemodynamics in a doubly afflicted human descending abdominal artery with iliac branching. The pulsatile 3D-Hemodynamics in a doubly afflicted human descending abdominal artery with iliac branching. 2023; 26:680-699. doi: 10.1080/10255842.2022.2082839

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35727024/
