PMID: 35724334
Title: Subclavian angioplasty during coronary interventions using radial approach.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: In the past years, the percentage of percutaneous coronary angiography and coronary interventions using radial access had significantly increased due to its higher safety, lower risk of major bleeding, and hence lower cardiovascular mortality. Subclavian artery stenosis is one of the challenges that may be met during transradial coronary interventions, which may necessitate femoral access crossover or conversion.
AIMS: To evaluate the feasibility and safety of performing subclavian angioplasty via radial access during complex coronary interventions using the forearm approach.
METHODS: A series of patients with complex radial approach due to subclavian stenosis received subclavian angioplasty during the procedure. We included 48 patients out of 22 500 procedures performed from February 2009 to February 2020. All patients did not have alternative vascular access due to extensive peripheral arterial disease (previous history of iliac stenting or distal aortic occlusion, which makes femoral access crossover difficult; also the contralateral radial/ulnar artery was very faint or not detectable at all).
RESULTS: Mean age was 72 (10) years and 67% of patients were males. Subclavian angioplasty was successfully done in all patients via ipsilateral radial access; 44 patients (91.7%) required subclavian stenting, and 4 patients were treated by subclavian angioplasty without stenting. Coronary angiography or intervention was perfectly achieved through the revascularized subclavian artery; coronary stenting was successfully done in 36 patients as indicated.
CONCLUSIONS: It can be concluded that percutaneous subclavian artery angioplasty can be done safely and effectively to facilitate complex transradial coronary procedures with an acceptable immediate technical success, especially in patients without alternative vascular access. Also, we may conclude that subclavian angioplasty may be successfully performed in patients with symptomatic upper limb ischemia, via the radial approach.

Citation: El Amrawy AM, et al. Subclavian angioplasty during coronary interventions using radial approach. Subclavian angioplasty during coronary interventions using radial approach. 2022; 80:1027-1031. doi: 10.33963/KP.a2022.0151

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35724334/
