PMID: 35721887
Title: Digital single-operator video cholangioscopy improves endoscopic management in patients with primary sclerosing cholangitis-a retrospective observational study.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Patients with primary sclerosing cholangitis (PSC) are at a high risk of developing cholestatic liver disease and biliary cancer, and endoscopy is crucial for the complex management of these patients.
AIM: To clarify the utility of recently introduced digital single-operator video cholangioscopy (SOVC) for the endoscopic management of PSC patients.
METHODS: In this observational study, all patients with a history of PSC and in whom digital SOVC (using the SpyGlass DS System) was performed between 2015 and 2019 were included and retrospectively analysed. Examinations were performed at a tertiary referral centre in Germany. In total, 46 SOVCs performed in 38 patients with a history of PSC were identified. The primary endpoint was the evaluation of dominant biliary strictures using digital SOVC, and the secondary endpoints were the performance of selective guidewire passage across biliary strictures and the diagnosis and treatment of biliary stone disease in PSC patients.
RESULTS: The 22 of 38 patients had a dominant biliary stricture (57.9%). In 4 of these 22 patients, a cholangiocellular carcinoma was diagnosed within the stricture (18.2%). Diagnostic evaluation of dominant biliary strictures using optical signs showed a sensitivity of 75% and a specificity of 94.4% to detect malignant strictures, whereas SOVC-guided biopsies to gain tissue for histopathological analysis showed a sensitivity of 50% and a specificity of 100%. In 13% of examinations, SOVC was helpful for guidewire passage across biliary strictures that could not be passed by conventional methods (technical success rate 100%). Biliary stone disease was observed in 17.4% of examinations; of these, in 37.5% of examinations, biliary stones could only be visualized by SOVC and not by standard fluoroscopy. Biliary stone treatment was successful in all cases (100%); 25% required SOVC-assisted electrohydraulic lithotripsy. Complications, such as postinterventional cholangitis and pancreatitis, occurred in 13% of examinations; however, no procedure-associated mortality occurred.
CONCLUSION: Digital SOVC is effective and safe for the endoscopic management of PSC patients and may be regularly considered an additive tool for the complex endoscopic management of these patients.

Citation: Bokemeyer A, et al. Digital single-operator video cholangioscopy improves endoscopic management in patients with primary sclerosing cholangitis-a retrospective observational study. Digital single-operator video cholangioscopy improves endoscopic management in patients with primary sclerosing cholangitis-a retrospective observational study. 2022; 28:2201-2213. doi: 10.3748/wjg.v28.i20.2201

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35721887/
