PMID: 35720043
Title: Ultrasonic Image Feature Analysis under Deep Learning Algorithm to Evaluate the Efficacy of Drug-Coated Balloon for Treatment of Arteriosclerotic Occlusion.

Abstract: In order to explore the adoption of ultrasonic images under deep learning (DL) algorithm to evaluate the efficacy of drug-coated balloon (DCB) for treatment of arteriosclerotic occlusion, 56 patients who underwent DCB surgery of lower limb artery were selected and all the patients received the examinations of algorithmic ultrasound and digital subtraction angiography (DSA) before surgery. According to the examination methods, they were classified into algorithmic ultrasound group and DSA group. One to two months after DCB surgery, ultrasound examination was performed with the region-based faster convolutional neural network (faster R-CNN) target detection algorithm to check the therapeutic effect. The results showed that the image effect processed by the target detection algorithm based on DL was signally better than that of traditional ultrasonic processing algorithm in Dice, precision (Pre), and sensitivity, with significant difference (P &lt; 0.05). Compared with DSA, algorithmic ultrasound showed better consistency between the two groups in the diagnosis of common femoral artery, superficial femoral artery, and popliteal artery stenosis, with statistical significance (P &lt; 0.05). However, for the diagnosis of anterior tibial artery stenosis, the consistency between algorithmic ultrasound and DSA was general. The residual stenosis of each artery segment decreased obviously in postoperative review compared with that before surgery, and the difference was statistically significant (P &lt; 0.05). Besides, both the pulsatility index (PI) and the blood flow velocity of the dorsalis pedis artery increased after surgery, compared with those before surgery, with significant differences (P &lt; 0.05). To sum up, ultrasound based on DL target detection algorithm had good imaging effect and good consistency with DSA, which was of the clinical reference value. Additionally, DCB surgery was helpful to treat arteriosclerosis occlusion and improve limb blood supply, which had clinical adoption value.

Citation: Zhang Y, et al. Ultrasonic Image Feature Analysis under Deep Learning Algorithm to Evaluate the Efficacy of Drug-Coated Balloon for Treatment of Arteriosclerotic Occlusion. Ultrasonic Image Feature Analysis under Deep Learning Algorithm to Evaluate the Efficacy of Drug-Coated Balloon for Treatment of Arteriosclerotic Occlusion. 2022; 2022:3176716. doi: 10.1155/2022/3176716

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35720043/
