PMID: 35733385
Title: Examination of the most cited studies on transcatheter aortic valve replacement with bibliometric analysis.

Abstract: AIM: The aim of this study is to analyze the studies on TAVI with the bibliometric method and to perform a scientiometric analysis of the top 100 most cited articles for researchers.
METHODS: The Thomson Reuters Web of Science database was searched for all relevant articles using the terms "TAVR" and "TAVI". The results were ordered according to the number of citations. We also analyzed the 100 most cited articles (T100) by annual average citation count (ACpY), years, research methods, author, institution, journal, funding agencies, and keywords. Analyses were also performed between the total number of citations, ACpY, impact factors, and publication time.
RESULTS: The article titled "Transcatheter Aortic-Valve Implantation for Aortic Stenosis in Patients Who Cannot Undergo Surgery" was the most cited article (n = 4616). The article titled "Transcatheter Aortic-Valve Replacement with a Balloon-Expandable Valve in Low-Risk Patients" had the highest ACpY count (n = 497). The United States was the country that contributed the most to the T100 list. While the journal that contributed the most with 32 articles was "Journal of the American College Of Cardiology", the journal in which the top 10 most cited articles were published most frequently was the "New England Journal of Medicine". In addition, the most publications were made in 2012.
CONCLUSION: Although this bibliometric analysis study has some limitations, it allows the most cited publications on TAVI to be analyzed systematically and provides scientific contributions.

Citation: Güzel T and Arslan B. Examination of the most cited studies on transcatheter aortic valve replacement with bibliometric analysis. Examination of the most cited studies on transcatheter aortic valve replacement with bibliometric analysis. 2022; 39:960-974. doi: 10.1111/echo.15410

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35733385/
