PMID: 35739011
Title: Rationale and Design of the Project to Look for Early Discharge in Patients Undergoing TAVR With ACURATE (POLESTAR Trial).

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Transcatheter aortic valve replacement (TAVR) is now an established treatment strategy for elderly patients with symptomatic aortic stenosis (AS) across the entire operative risk spectrum. Streamlined TAVR protocols along with reduced procedure time and expedited ambulation promote early hospital discharge. Selection of patients suitable for safe early discharge after TAVR might improve healthcare efficiency.
STUDY DESIGN: The POLESTAR trial is an international, multi-center, prospective, observational study which aims to evaluate the safety of early discharge in selected patients who undergo TAVR with the supra-annular functioning self-expanding ACURATE Neo transcatheter heart valve (THV). A total of 250 patients will be included based on a set of baseline criteria indicating potential early discharge (within 48 h post-TAVR). Primary study endpoints include Valve Academic Research Consortium (VARC)-3 defined safety at 30 days and VARC-3 defined efficacy at 30 days and 1 year. Endpoints will be compared between early discharge and non-early discharge cohorts with a distinct landmark analysis at 48 h post-TAVR. Secondary endpoints include quality of life assessed using EQ5D-5L and Kansas City Cardiomyopathy Questionnaire (KCCQ) questionnaires and resource costs compared between discharge groups.
SUMMARY: The POLESTAR trial prospectively evaluates safety and feasibility of an early discharge protocol for TAVR using the ACURATE Neo THV.

Citation: Ooms JF, et al. Rationale and Design of the Project to Look for Early Discharge in Patients Undergoing TAVR With ACURATE (POLESTAR Trial). Rationale and Design of the Project to Look for Early Discharge in Patients Undergoing TAVR With ACURATE (POLESTAR Trial). 2022; 44:71-77. doi: 10.1016/j.carrev.2022.06.009

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35739011/
