PMID: 35738563
Title: Calculation of Mitral Valve Area by Continuity Equation Using Velocity-Time Integral From Mitral Valve Orifices After Mitral Clip.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: This study investigates the hemodynamics of a dual-orifice mitral valve after mitral valve clip closure (MVCC) in patients with functional and nonfunctional mitral regurgitation (MR). If inflow velocity-time integral (VTi) of both orifices is equal, then the standard continuity equation can be applied to calculate the total mitral valve area (MVA).
METHODS AND RESULTS: Adults undergoing MVCC placement were prospectively enrolled. With transesophageal echocardiography (TEE), the vena contracta (VC) of the medial and lateral mitral valve (MV) orifices were determined using color-flow Doppler and dual MV orifice areas were calculated. Valve orifices were classified as large vs small based on VC diameters. Continuous-wave Doppler measurements from both orifices were obtained. Forty-nine patients with severe MR (functional, n = 18) were enrolled. The VTi, mean gradient, peak gradient, and mean velocity of the larger vs smaller orifice were not significantly different, irrespective of MR etiology (P=nonsignificant). There was no difference in these parameters between large and small orifice regardless of MR mechanism (P=nonsignificant). There were no differences in the means of MVA as derived from either large or small VTi-derived and VC-derived areas (P=nonsignificant).
CONCLUSIONS: Mitral valve inflow hemodynamics were the same regardless of the size differences between the large and small orifices. Therefore, total MVA can be calculated using the continuity equation in patients irrespective of MR mechanism. This allows for a derivation of total MVA at the time of MVCC placement to evaluate for mitral stenosis.

Citation: Singam NSV, et al. Calculation of Mitral Valve Area by Continuity Equation Using Velocity-Time Integral From Mitral Valve Orifices After Mitral Clip. Calculation of Mitral Valve Area by Continuity Equation Using Velocity-Time Integral From Mitral Valve Orifices After Mitral Clip. 2022; 34:E581-E587.

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35738563/
