PMID: 35738422
Title: The role of mechanical valves in the aortic position in the era of bioprostheses and TAVR: Evidence-based appraisal and focus on the On-X valve.

Abstract: Patients who need a prosthetic aortic heart valve may decide, working with their cardiologist and cardiac surgeon, among a variety of options: surgical or transcatheter approach, bioprosthetic or mechanical valve, or a Ross procedure if suitable to their age and anatomy. This review article examines the evidence for survival benefit with mechanical aortic valves, discusses bioprosthetic structural valve degeneration and its consequences, and considers the risks of redo aortic valve surgery or subsequent valve-in-valve (ViV) transcatheter intervention. It highlights the unique characteristics of the On-X aortic valve, including the US Food and Drug Administration approved and American College of Cardiology/American Heart Association guideline supported reduced anticoagulation target INR of 1.5 to 2.0, and discusses the PROACT Xa trial comparing apixaban vs warfarin anticoagulation. The choice of prosthetic valve should be individualized, carefully considering each patient's unique circumstances. In that context, the On-X aortic valve offers a potential lifetime solution without need for a repeat operation, while minimizing the risks of long-term anticoagulation. In an era of enthusiasm for bioprosthetic and transcatheter-based approaches, the option of a second-generation bileaflet mechanical valve with optimized hemodynamics-the On-X aortic valve-may well align with patient expectations.

Citation: Gerdisch MW, et al. The role of mechanical valves in the aortic position in the era of bioprostheses and TAVR: Evidence-based appraisal and focus on the On-X valve. The role of mechanical valves in the aortic position in the era of bioprostheses and TAVR: Evidence-based appraisal and focus on the On-X valve. 2022; 72:31-40. doi: 10.1016/j.pcad.2022.06.001

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35738422/
