PMID: 35731342
Title: Fluid Mechanics of Fetal Left Ventricle During Aortic Stenosis with Evolving Hypoplastic Left Heart Syndrome.

Abstract: In cases of fetal aortic stenosis and evolving Hypoplastic Left Heart Syndrome (feHLHS), aortic stenosis is associated with specific abnormalities such as retrograde or bidirectional systolic transverse arch flow. Many cases progressed to hypoplastic left heart syndrome (HLHS) malformation at birth, but fetal aortic valvuloplasty can prevent the progression in many cases. Since both disease and intervention involve drastic changes to the biomechanical environment, in-vivo biomechanics likely play a role in inducing and preventing disease progression. However, the fluid mechanics of feHLHS is not well-characterized. Here, we conduct patient-specific echocardiography-based flow simulations of normal and feHLHS left ventricles (LV), to understand the essential fluid dynamics distinction between the two cohorts. We found high variability across feHLHS cases, but also the following unifying features. Firstly, feHLHS diastole mitral inflow was in the form of a narrowed and fast jet that impinged onto the apical region, rather than a wide and gentle inflow in normal LVs. This was likely due to a malformed mitral valve with impaired opening dynamics. This altered inflow caused elevated vorticity dynamics and wall shear stresses (WSS) and reduced oscillatory shear index at the apical zone rather than mid-ventricle. Secondly, feHLHS LV also featured elevated systolic and diastolic energy losses, intraventricular pressure gradients, and vortex formation numbers, suggesting energy inefficiency of flow and additional burden on the LV. Thirdly, feHLHS LV had poor blood turnover, suggesting a hypoxic environment, which could be associated with endocardial fibroelastosis that is often observed in these patients.

Citation: Wong HS, et al. Fluid Mechanics of Fetal Left Ventricle During Aortic Stenosis with Evolving Hypoplastic Left Heart Syndrome. Fluid Mechanics of Fetal Left Ventricle During Aortic Stenosis with Evolving Hypoplastic Left Heart Syndrome. 2022; 50:1158-1172. doi: 10.1007/s10439-022-02990-5

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35731342/
