PMID: 35731002
Title: Optimization of Surgical Time Through the Implementation of a Rational Protocol to Prevent Bleeding in Sleeve Gastrectomy.

Abstract: Introduction: Staple line oversewing (SLO) is a prophylactic alternative due to its low cost and its effect of decreasing the incidence and severity of bleeding complications in sleeve gastrectomy (SG). However, this approach significantly increases the surgical time and may be associated with stenosis. The study aims to identify whether its usage was sufficient to optimize the surgical time in patients whose screening for the risk of occult bleeding was negative. Materials and Methods: The study enrolled 103 patients. Having the systolic blood pressure goal of 140 mmHg, the staple line is checked for bleeding points, counting as follows: &gt;5 bleeding points proceed to SLO, &lt;5 bleeding points are managed using clips, and if no bleeding points are found, the procedure can be completed. Results: The bleeding test was positive in 79.6% of the cases and oversewing was necessary for 44.7% of the total. The bleeding test result was significant for the increased surgical time. The mean surgical time in SLO was 16.4% higher than in clipping. There was a significant difference in surgical time between SLO and clipping; however, no significant difference was identified between clipping and continuing the procedure without further measures. No postoperative complication related to staple line bleeding was identified. Discussion: In a scenario with limitations for the use of high-cost homeostatic agents, the stratified protocol to prevent bleeding in SG stapling line was able to significantly reduce surgical time without significant added risks. Conclusion: A stratified protocol to prevent bleeding in SG stapling line was able to significantly reduce surgical time.

Citation: Bigolin AV, et al. Optimization of Surgical Time Through the Implementation of a Rational Protocol to Prevent Bleeding in Sleeve Gastrectomy. Optimization of Surgical Time Through the Implementation of a Rational Protocol to Prevent Bleeding in Sleeve Gastrectomy. 2023; 33:15-20. doi: 10.1089/lap.2022.0116

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35731002/
