PMID: 35741645
Title: Intra-Arterial Injection of Thrombin as Rescue Therapy of Vessel Perforation during Mechanical Thrombectomy for Acute Ischemic Stroke.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Vessel perforation during stent mechanical thrombectomy (MT) is a rare and disastrous complication. A routine rescue strategy includes balloon occlusion for tamponade, procedure suspension, and lowering or normalizing blood pressure. However, this complication is still associated with poor outcome and high mortality.
OBJECTIVE: We present our experience with intra-arterial injection of thrombin in the treatment of vessel perforation secondary to microcatheter/microwire perforation, which prevents further deterioration in clinical outcomes.
METHODS: Cases with intraprocedural vessel perforation during mechanical thrombectomy were included in the final analysis. Clinical data, procedural details, and radiographic and clinical outcomes were collected.
RESULTS: Four patients with intraprocedural vessel perforation were included. Intraprocedural perforations occurred at the distal middle cerebral artery in two cases: the A2 segment in one case and the internal carotid artery terminus in one case. The etiology of four cases was intracranial atherosclerotic stenosis (ICAS). The ruptured vessels were effectively occluded in all cases. Endovascular therapy was continued in three cases, and mTICI ≥ 2b recanalization was achieved in all cases. The culprit artery was kept patent on CTA for 72 h post-operation. No active bleeding was detected on follow-up CT post-operation. During the 90-day follow-up period, one patient died, modified Rankle Scare (mRS) 3 was observed in two patients, and mRS 4 was observed in one patient.
CONCLUSIONS: The key benefit of this method is occluding the ruptured vessel without affecting the following MT. We propose that intra-arterial injection of prothrombin may be simple yet effective in managing vessel perforation complications during MT.

Citation: Yi T, et al. Intra-Arterial Injection of Thrombin as Rescue Therapy of Vessel Perforation during Mechanical Thrombectomy for Acute Ischemic Stroke. Intra-Arterial Injection of Thrombin as Rescue Therapy of Vessel Perforation during Mechanical Thrombectomy for Acute Ischemic Stroke. 2022; 12:(unknown pages). doi: 10.3390/brainsci12060760

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35741645/
