PMID: 35747090
Title: Coronary lithotripsy: a novel approach to intra-coronary calcification with 'cracking' results?

Abstract: Coronary lithotripsy is a novel approach to percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI). It is based on well-established technology dating back to 1980 when lithotripsy was first used to treat renal calculi. Its application in cardiovascular medicine is a more recent development that involves using a low-pressure lithotripsy balloon to deliver unfocused acoustic pulse waves in a circumferential mechanical energy distribution. This causes fracturing of calcification within the surrounding vasculature, facilitating optimal stent deployment. This article aims to review recent clinical experience and the published data regarding intravascular lithotripsy (IVL). All relevant articles were identified via PubMed using keywords including "intravascular lithotripsy", "shockwave" and "coronary". All studies that contained published datasets regarding IVL with patient numbers >50 were included for review. There were 116 results found. After reviewing all the publications, articles were then tabulated and 17 were found to be relevant, including only four clinical studies. In this review we found that intracoronary lithotripsy for heavily calcified arteries appears to be a safe, effective, easy-to-use method of dealing with an otherwise technically-challenging and high-risk scenario. It appears to carry low risk, uses low pressures, and exerts its effects on both superficial and deep intravascular calcium. Further prospective data with long-term follow-up will be required to explore both the off-label uses of IVL (such as post-stent dilatation), and the long-term patency of these vessels.

Citation: Finnegan P, et al. Coronary lithotripsy: a novel approach to intra-coronary calcification with 'cracking' results?. Coronary lithotripsy: a novel approach to intra-coronary calcification with 'cracking' results?. 2020; 27:21. doi: 10.5837/bjc.2020.021

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35747090/
