PMID: 35757555
Title: Diagnostic Value of Multimodal Intraoperative Neuromonitoring by Combining Somatosensory-With Motor-Evoked Potential in Posterior Decompression Surgery for Thoracic Spinal Stenosis.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Intraoperative neuromonitoring (IONM) has become an increasingly essential technique in spinal surgery. However, data on the diagnostic value of IONM in predicting impending postoperative neurological deficits (PONDs) for patients who underwent posterior decompression surgery for thoracic spinal stenosis (TSS) are limited. Furthermore, patients who are at the highest risk of waveform changes during the surgery remain unknown. Our purpose was to (1) assess the diagnostic accuracy of IONM by combining somatosensory-evoked potential (SSEP) with motor-evoked potential (MEP) in predicting PONDs for patients who underwent the surgery and (2) identify the independent risk factors correlated with IONM changes in our study population.
METHODS: A total of 326 consecutive patients who underwent the surgery were identified and analyzed. We collected the following data: (1) demographic and clinical data; (2) IONM data; and (3) outcome data such as details of PONDs, and recovery status (complete, partial, or no recovery) at the 12-month follow-up visit.
RESULTS: In total, 27 patients developed PONDs. However, 15, 6, and 6 patients achieved complete recovery, partial recovery, and no recovery, respectively, at the 12-month follow-up. SSEP or MEP change monitoring yielded better diagnostic efficacy in predicting PONDs as indicated by the increased sensitivity (96.30%) and area under the receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve (AUC) value (0.91). Only one neurological deficit occurred without waveform changes. On multiple logistic regression analysis, the independent risk factors associated with waveform changes were as follows: preoperative moderate or severe neurological deficits (p = 0.002), operating in the upper- or middle-thoracic spinal level (p = 0.003), estimated blood loss (EBL) ≥ 400 ml (p &lt; 0.001), duration of symptoms ≥ 3 months (p &lt; 0.001), and impairment of gait (p = 0.001).
CONCLUSION: Somatosensory-evoked potential or MEP change is a highly sensitive and moderately specific indicator for predicting PONDs in posterior decompression surgery for TSS. The independent risks for IONM change were as follows: operated in upper- or middle-thoracic spinal level, presented with gait impairment, had massive blood loss, moderate or severe neurological deficits preoperatively, and had a longer duration of symptoms.
CLINICAL TRIAL REGISTRATION: [http://www.chictr.org.cn]; identifier [ChiCTR 200003 2155].

Citation: Liu T, et al. Diagnostic Value of Multimodal Intraoperative Neuromonitoring by Combining Somatosensory-With Motor-Evoked Potential in Posterior Decompression Surgery for Thoracic Spinal Stenosis. Diagnostic Value of Multimodal Intraoperative Neuromonitoring by Combining Somatosensory-With Motor-Evoked Potential in Posterior Decompression Surgery for Thoracic Spinal Stenosis. 2022; 16:879435. doi: 10.3389/fnins.2022.879435

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35757555/
