PMID: 35758073
Title: [Long-term results of carotid endarterectomy and carotid artery stenting in patients with high bifurcation of common carotid artery: a multiple-center study].

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: To analyze in-hospital and long-term results of eversion carotid endarterectomy (CEE), carotid endarterectomy with patch repair and carotid artery stenting (CAS) in patients with high bifurcation of common carotid artery.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: A retrospective multiple-center open study included 1983 patients who underwent internal carotid artery (ICA) repair for severe stenosis between 2010 and 2021. Three groups of patients were distinguished depending on revascularization option: group 1 (n=638) - eversion CEE; group 2 (n=351) - CEE with patch repair; group 3 (n=994) - CAS.
RESULTS: In-hospital postoperative mortality and incidence of stroke and myocardial infarction were similar. All bleedings (n=39) occurred after CEE. ICA thrombosis was diagnosed in groups 1 and 2 due to intimal detachment after insertion of temporary bypass tube. Incidence of laryngeal paresis, neuropathy of hypoglossal and glossopharyngeal nerves, Horner syndrome, damage to salivary glands was comparable in groups 1 and 2. Long-term mortality was the highest (n=10; 2.8%) after CEE with patch repair due to fatal stroke. In turn, the highest incidence of ICA restenosis and restenosis-induced ischemic stroke was observed after CEE with patch repair and CAS.
CONCLUSION: 1. Classical and eversion CEE in patients with high CCA bifurcation is followed by high in-hospital incidence of damage to cranial nerves and salivary glands, laryngeal paresis, Horner syndrome, bleeding and risk of ICA thrombosis. 2. In patients with high CCA bifurcation, CAS and CEE with patch repair are accompanied by high incidence of ICA restenosis, restenosis-induced stroke and mortality in long-term postoperative period. 3. Eversion CEE demonstrates the lowest rates of all adverse cardiovascular events in long-term follow-up period.

Citation: Belov YV, et al. [Long-term results of carotid endarterectomy and carotid artery stenting in patients with high bifurcation of common carotid artery: a multiple-center study]. [Long-term results of carotid endarterectomy and carotid artery stenting in patients with high bifurcation of common carotid artery: a multiple-center study]. 2022; 86:6-16. doi: 10.17116/neiro2022860316

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35758073/
