PMID: 35754222
Title: [Current status of research on short-term urogenital function after transanal total mesorectal excision and laparoscopic total mesorectal excision].

Abstract: Thanks to the new surgical approach, transanal total mesorectal excision (taTME) has a better operative field exposure than laparoscopic-assisted total mesorectal excision (laTME), especially for male patients with obesity, pelvic stenosis or prostate hypertrophy. Nevertheless, whether the urogenital function and quality of life after taTME are better as compared to laTME requires further study. According to the existing studies, taTME and laTME are not significantly different in symptoms of the urology system for male patients, but some large sample clinical studies show that the incidence of urethral mechanical injury after taTME is higher. Unfortunately, there is no elaboration on that for females. The sexual function of male patients after taTME and laTME is both impaired. The sexual function of male patients will be relieved to different degrees over time, but there is no significant difference. Compared with laTME, taTME shows advantages in the sexual function for female patients. There is no significant difference in short-term urogenital system function between taTME and laTME at present. As a new surgical approach, the impact on urogenital system function after taTME is acceptable. However, whether there is a significant difference in urogenital function between taTME and laTME needs further research. In addition, functional results still need comprehensive evaluation, and preoperative baseline evaluation also needs to be enhanced. The functional evaluation for male and female should be carried out separately rather than confused. Questionnaire for evaluation of functional results also needs to be verified.

Citation: Li HZ, et al. [Current status of research on short-term urogenital function after transanal total mesorectal excision and laparoscopic total mesorectal excision]. [Current status of research on short-term urogenital function after transanal total mesorectal excision and laparoscopic total mesorectal excision]. 2022; 25:552-557. doi: 10.3760/cma.j.cn441530-20211130-00479

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35754222/
