PMID: 35757447
Title: Antithrombotic Therapy after Transcatheter Aortic Valve Replacement.

Abstract: Transcatheter aortic valve replacement (TAVR) is a treatment option for patients with asymptomatic severe aortic stenosis who are candidates for a bioprosthesis across the entire spectrum of risk. TAVR carries a risk for thrombotic and bleeding events, focusing on the importance of defining the optimal antithrombotic regimen. Patients undergoing TAVR are mostly elderly and have many comorbidities such as atrial fibrillation (AF) requiring oral anticoagulants (OACs) or coronary artery disease requiring antiplatelet agents. After TAVR among patients without baseline indications for OAC, recent data suggest dual-antiplatelet therapy is associated with an increased risk for bleeding events, particularly early postprocedure compared with single-antiplatelet therapy with aspirin. The risk of leaflet thrombosis in patients undergoing TAVR raised concern about the use of OAC in patients without an initial indication for anticoagulation therapy. Although it showed effectiveness in modulating thrombus formation at the valve level, the bleeding hazard has shown to be unacceptably high, and the net benefit of combining antiplatelet and OAC therapy is unproven. For patients with indications for the use of long-term OAC, such as those with AF, adding antiplatelet therapy increases bleeding events. A favorable effect of new OAC agents over Vitamin K antagonists is debatable. Overall, single-antiplatelet therapy and OAC appear to be reasonable strategies in patients without and with indications for concurrent anticoagulation, respectively. This article aims to review the available published studies and recommendations in the literature regarding the use of antithrombotic therapy post-TAVR.

Citation: Mousa TAM, et al. Antithrombotic Therapy after Transcatheter Aortic Valve Replacement. Antithrombotic Therapy after Transcatheter Aortic Valve Replacement. 2022; 23:10-15. doi: 10.4103/heartviews.heartviews_36_22

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35757447/
