PMID: 35759020
Title: Use of free jejunal flap as a salvage procedure in the management of high corrosive esophageal re-strictures: an institutional experience and review of literature.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: High pharyngo-esophageal strictures following corrosive ingestion continue to pose a challenge to the surgeon, particularly in the developing world. With the advancements and increased experience with microsurgical techniques, free jejunal flaps offer a viable reconstruction option in patients with high corrosive strictures with previous failed reconstruction. We review our experience with free jejunal flap in three cases with high pharyngo-esophageal stricture following corrosive ingestion, with previous failed reconstruction.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: A total of three patients underwent salvage free jejunal flap after failed reconstruction for high pharyngo-esophageal strictures following corrosive acid ingestion. All the three patients developed anastomotic leak and subsequent stricture, two following a pharyngo-gastric anastomosis and one following a pharyngo-colic anastomosis. The strictured segment was bridged using a free jejunal graft with microvascular anastomosis to the lingual artery and common facial vein. All patients were followed-up at regular intervals.
RESULTS AND CONCLUSIONS: The strictured pharyngeal anastomotic segment was successfully reconstructed with free jejunal flap in all the three patients. Patients were able to take food orally and maintain nutrition without the need of jejunostomy feeding. On long-term follow-up (median: 5 years), there was no recurrence of dysphagia and all the patients had good health-related quality of life.

Citation: Dash NR, et al. Use of free jejunal flap as a salvage procedure in the management of high corrosive esophageal re-strictures: an institutional experience and review of literature. Use of free jejunal flap as a salvage procedure in the management of high corrosive esophageal re-strictures: an institutional experience and review of literature. 2022; 407:2725-2732. doi: 10.1007/s00423-022-02595-5

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35759020/
