PMID: 35752422
Title: Full-Endoscopic Lumbar Interbody Fusion Versus Minimally Invasive Transforaminal Lumbar Interbody Fusion with a Tubular Retractor System: A Retrospective Controlled Study.

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: The objective of this study was to compare the safety and clinical efficacy of full-endoscopic lumbar interbody fusion (FE-LIF) and minimally invasive transforaminal lumbar interbody fusion (MIS-TLIF).
METHODS: A total of 70 patients with single-level lumbar degenerative diseases underwent FE-LIF or MIS-TLIF with a tubular retractor system from August 2018 to August 2020. Postoperatively, the efficacy and safety were compared using several clinical and radiological indices.
RESULTS: A total of 32 patients underwent FE-LIF and 38 received MIS-TLIF with a tubular retractor system, and all patients had no apparent complications. The FE-LIF group had higher radiation exposure, longer operation time, and less bleeding than the MIS-TLIF group (P < 0.05). Postoperative lumbar magnetic resonance imaging showed that the nerve decompression was sufficient. The pain in the lower back and legs was significantly relieved, and the Oswestry Disability Index (ODI) score was greatly improved after surgery (P < 0.01) in both the groups. The sensory and motor functions of nerve roots were remarkably recovered in both the groups at the 1-year follow-up (P < 0.05), and there was no significant difference in MacNab scores between the 2 groups. As per Mannion's fusion classification, the interbody fusion rate was significantly better in the FE-LIF group than in the MIS-TLIF group.
CONCLUSIONS: FE-LIF, which is safe, effective, and minimally invasive, exhibits the same clinical efficacy as MIS-TLIF but with longer operation time and increased radiation exposure.

Citation: Wang JC, et al. Full-Endoscopic Lumbar Interbody Fusion Versus Minimally Invasive Transforaminal Lumbar Interbody Fusion with a Tubular Retractor System: A Retrospective Controlled Study. Full-Endoscopic Lumbar Interbody Fusion Versus Minimally Invasive Transforaminal Lumbar Interbody Fusion with a Tubular Retractor System: A Retrospective Controlled Study. 2022; 165:e457-e468. doi: 10.1016/j.wneu.2022.06.083

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35752422/
