PMID: 35758313
Title: Management strategies of unanticipated intracranial stenosis during mechanical thrombectomy for acute stroke: A survey of academic neurointerventionalists.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: The optimal approach to the management of intracranial atherosclerotic disease (ICAD) at the time of mechanical thrombectomy (MT) for large vessel occlusion (LVO) remains controversial. The goal of this study is to characterize current practices concerning this challenging clinical situation in a survey of practicing neurointerventionalists.
METHODS: An electronic questionnaire was sent to a cross-section of North American academic neurointerventionalists using publicly available contact information and departmental websites. Prior to analysis, responses were anonymized and categorized by region.
RESULTS: A total of 136/360 responses were recorded from the U.S. and Canada. The mean number of years of practicing as a neurointerventionalist among the respondents was 10.5 (± 6.2 years). ICAD was perceived as a causative factor during MT for LVO in 5-10% of thrombectomy cases. The most common first-line treatment approach for significant ICAD, assuming a TICI 2b or better reperfusion, was medical therapy (77.9% of respondents), followed by angioplasty + stent placement (8.8% of respondents). There were no significant differences in the first line treatment of ICAD in LVO between geographical regions (p = 0.815).
CONCLUSION: The approach to underlying ICAD in LVO varies widely; however, the majority of neurointerventionalists prefer medical therapy with DAPT as a first-line treatment approach. The current survey highlights the need for studies that better define the optimal timing and modality of treatment, along with an evidence-based framework for balancing the risks associated with these treatment approaches.

Citation: Lazaro TT, et al. Management strategies of unanticipated intracranial stenosis during mechanical thrombectomy for acute stroke: A survey of academic neurointerventionalists. Management strategies of unanticipated intracranial stenosis during mechanical thrombectomy for acute stroke: A survey of academic neurointerventionalists. 2023; 29:725-730. doi: 10.1177/15910199221110971

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35758313/
