PMID: 35755552
Title: Lumbar Stenosis Spinal Surgery-Associated Cerebrospinal Fluid Leak Without Headache: An Autobiographical Case Report.

Abstract: Lumbar spinal stenosis, a narrowing of the spinal canal around the spinal neurovascular structures, is a common etiology for lower back and leg pain in older people. Sciatica, a frequent symptom of lumbar spinal stenosis, typically presents with sharp and/or aching pain that originates in the buttock, extends to the thigh, and radiates into the foot and toes; in addition, it can be accompanied by weakness of the associated lower extremity. In individuals with sciatica-related persistent symptoms or functional limitations or both, spinal decompression surgery may be necessary. A cerebrospinal fluid leak is a potential complication of lumbar spinal stenosis surgery; it is frequently--yet not always--accompanied by a postural headache. The cerebrospinal fluid leak can result from an intraoperative tear or postoperatively. Albeit a more common adverse event after body contouring surgery, seroma--a postoperative serous fluid collection that is usually detectable as a palpable or visible fluid wave on clinical examination--has also been observed as a complication following lumbar spinal stenosis surgery. A man who experienced an intra-operative accidental dural tear during lumbar spinal stenosis surgery is described. A large cerebrospinal fluid leak that involved both the laminectomy bed and the subcutaneous tissue of his back subsequently developed; the leak eventually presented as duro-cutaneous fistulas without headache. His doctors misinterpreted the cerebrospinal fluid leak as a seroma; this may have occurred since not only did the color of the persistent and continuously dripping fluid varied from being clear to slightly tinged pink, but also the patient never had a headache or any other symptoms associated with a cerebrospinal fluid leak. When his lower back was appropriately evaluated with magnetic resonance imaging, the diagnosis of a large cerebrospinal fluid leak was established. In conclusion, lumbar spinal stenosis back surgery can be associated with postoperative complications, including cerebrospinal fluid leak and--less frequently--seroma. However, following lumbar spinal stenosis surgery, the absence of a headache does not exclude the possibility of a cerebrospinal fluid leak. Also, the presence of fluid leaking from the surgical site after lumbar spinal stenosis back surgery should not only prompt the clinician to entertain the possibility of a surgery-associated cerebrospinal fluid leak but also to obtain additional diagnostic studies--such as magnetic resonance imaging--to establish the diagnosis.

Citation: Cohen PR and Dorros SM. Lumbar Stenosis Spinal Surgery-Associated Cerebrospinal Fluid Leak Without Headache: An Autobiographical Case Report. Lumbar Stenosis Spinal Surgery-Associated Cerebrospinal Fluid Leak Without Headache: An Autobiographical Case Report. 2022; 14:e25253. doi: 10.7759/cureus.25253

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35755552/
