PMID: 35766367
Title: Alternative Application Technique for the MANTA Vascular Closure Device for Percutaneous Large-Bore Arterial Access Closure: The Fluoroscopic DOT Technique.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Vascular complications are a cause of increased morbidity and mortality when performing percutaneous procedures requiring large-bore arterial access. MANTA vascular closure device (VCD) is currently the only large-bore VCD using an intraluminal foot plate and an extraluminal collagen plug. The traditional depth locator approach might be compromised in; emergent cases without the required measurements, cases of hematoma formation, or other patient, procedure, or operator-specific variables. Furthermore, this technique can be used for postclosure in cases without the required measurement of depth. We describe vascular outcomes using fluoroscopy (fluoroscopic DOT technique) rather than traditional depth locator approach for vascular closure with the MANTA VCD.
METHODS: Fifty patients who underwent transcatheter aortic valve implantation (TAVI) were retrospectively analyzed using fluoroscopic DOT technique with 18F MANTA VCD between May and August 2021. All patients &gt;18 years of age who qualified for transfemoral TAVI were included. Access was obtained with ultrasound guidance with vessel diameter of at least <u>&gt;</u> 6 mm and free from anterior vessel wall calcification. Patient related factors and primary outcomes of access site bleeding and acute flow-limited limb ischemia requiring intervention were prospectively analyzed. Furthermore, 1 patient who failed hemostasis with suture-mediated VCD had successful hemostasis with fluoroscopic DOT technique as dry postclosure after balloon aortic valvuloplasty.
RESULTS: In total, 50 patients were analyzed with a mean age of 81 years and majority were male (56%). Majority had comorbidities of hypertension (88%) and hyperlipidemia (94%), 24% had peripheral arterial disease, 38% coronary artery disease, and 58% were former smokers. Importantly, 40% were obese with an average body mass index (BMI) of 29 kg/m2. There were no bleeding or ischemic limb complications post MANTA VCD deployment using the fluoroscopic DOT technique. Furthermore, none of the patients required peripheral intervention from index procedure to 1 month post verified during their 1-month post TAVR follow-up.
CONCLUSION: Fluoroscopic DOT technique using the MANTA VCD is highly reproducible and allows hemostasis in a predictable manner for procedures requiring large-bore arterial access in the absence of MANTA depth measurement.

Citation: Memon S, et al. Alternative Application Technique for the MANTA Vascular Closure Device for Percutaneous Large-Bore Arterial Access Closure: The Fluoroscopic DOT Technique. Alternative Application Technique for the MANTA Vascular Closure Device for Percutaneous Large-Bore Arterial Access Closure: The Fluoroscopic DOT Technique. 2023; 30:885-891. doi: 10.1177/15266028221105187

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35766367/
