PMID: 35763768
Title: Detecting the vulnerable carotid plaque: the Carotid Artery Multimodality imaging Prognostic study design.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Carotid artery disease is highly prevalent and a main cause of ischemic stroke and vascular dementia. There is a paucity of information on predictors of serious vascular events. Besides percentage diameter stenosis, international guidelines also recommend the evaluation of qualitative characteristics of carotid artery disease as a guide to treatment, but with no agreement on which qualitative features to assess. This inadequate knowledge leads to a poor ability to identify patients at risk, dispersion of medical resources, and unproven use of expensive and resource-consuming techniques, such as magnetic resonance imaging, positron emission tomography, and computed tomography.
OBJECTIVES: The Carotid Artery Multimodality imaging Prognostic (CAMP) study will: prospectively determine the best predictors of silent and overt ischemic stroke and vascular dementia in patients with asymptomatic subcritical carotid artery disease by identifying the noninvasive diagnostic features of the 'vulnerable carotid plaque'; assess whether 'smart' use of low-cost diagnostic methods such as ultrasound-based evaluations may yield at least the same level of prospective information as more expensive techniques.
STUDY DESIGN: We will compare the prognostic/predictive value of all proposed techniques with regard to silent or clinically manifest ischemic stroke and vascular dementia. The study will include ≥300 patients with asymptomatic, unilateral, intermediate degree (40-60% diameter) common or internal carotid artery stenosis detected at carotid ultrasound, with a 2-year follow-up. The study design has been registered on Clinicaltrial.gov on December 17, 2020 (ID number NCT04679727).

Citation: Gargani L, et al. Detecting the vulnerable carotid plaque: the Carotid Artery Multimodality imaging Prognostic study design. Detecting the vulnerable carotid plaque: the Carotid Artery Multimodality imaging Prognostic study design. 2022; 23:466-473. doi: 10.2459/JCM.0000000000001314

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35763768/
