PMID: 35765027
Title: Prenatal diagnosis of Williams-Beuren syndrome by ultrasound and chromosomal microarray analysis.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: There are a few literature reports of prenatal ultrasound manifestations of Williams-Beuren syndrome. We aimed to explore the prenatal diagnosis of Williams-Beuren syndrome by ultrasound and chromosomal microarray analysis and describe the prenatal ultrasound performance of this syndrome.
METHODS: In this retrospective study, we reported eight cases of Williams-Beuren syndrome diagnosed at our prenatal diagnostic center from 2016 to 2021. We systematically reviewed clinical data from these cases, including indications for invasive testing, sonographic findings, QF-PCR results, chromosomal microarray analysis results, and pregnancy outcomes.
RESULTS: In this study, the common ultrasound features were ventricular septal defect (37.5%), intrauterine growth retardation (25%), and aortic coarctation (25%). Moreover, all patients were found to have a common deletion in the Williams-Beuren syndrome chromosome region at the 7q11.23 locus, which contained the elastin gene. Deletion sizes ranged from 1.42 to 2.07 Mb. Seven parents asked for termination of pregnancy, and one patient was lost to follow-up.
CONCLUSIONS: This study is the most extensive prenatal study using chromosomal microarray analysis technology for detailed molecular analysis of Williams-Beuren syndrome cases. We reported three cases combined with first-reported ultrasound manifestations. Case 1 was concomitant with multicystic dysplastic kidney and duodenal atresia combined with case 3. Notably, case 4 was combined with multiple cardiovascular malformations: Tetralogy of Fallot, right aortic arch, and supravalvar aortic stenosis. These manifestations expand the intrauterine ultrasound phenotype of Williams-Beuren syndrome in previous literature reports.

Citation: Huang R, et al. Prenatal diagnosis of Williams-Beuren syndrome by ultrasound and chromosomal microarray analysis. Prenatal diagnosis of Williams-Beuren syndrome by ultrasound and chromosomal microarray analysis. 2022; 15:27. doi: 10.1186/s13039-022-00604-2

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35765027/
