PMID: 35764302
Title: The Role of Laparoscopic Treatment of Choledochal Malformation in Europe: A Single-Center Experience and Review of the Literature.

Abstract: BACKGROUND:  Numerous studies from Asian countries, including large collectives, have reported excellent results after laparoscopic resection of choledochal malformation (CM). However, the role of laparoscopic CM resection is still controversial outside Asia. We aimed to analyze the outcome of laparoscopic CM resection in our institution and to compare our outcome with the data reported in the literature.
METHODS:  All patients who underwent laparoscopic CM resection in our pediatric surgical department from 2002 to 2019 were retrospectively analyzed for surgical details and postoperative complications, which were graded according to the Clavien-Dindo classification. A systematic literature search identified all reports on over 10 cases of laparoscopic pediatric CM resection and surgical details, follow-up, and complication rates were extracted.
RESULTS: Fifty-seven patients (72% female) with a mean age of 3.6 + 4.1 years underwent laparoscopic CM resection in our department. Conversion rate was 30%. Total complication rate was 28%. The rate of major complications (Clavien-Dindo grade III or more) was 16% and included stricture of the biliodigestive or enteric anastomosis (n = 4), adhesive ileus (n = 3), portal vein thrombosis (n = 1), and recurrent cholangitis with consecutive liver transplantation (n = 1). With increasing experience, complication rates decreased. The majority of publications on laparoscopic CM resections originated from Asia (n = 36) and reported on low complication rates. In contrast, publications originating from non-Asian countries (n = 5) reported on higher complications following laparoscopic CM resection.
CONCLUSION:  Our data indicate that laparoscopic CM resection can be safely performed. The learning curve in combination with the low incidence calls for a centralization of patients who undergo laparoscopic CM resection. There seems to be a discrepancy on complications rates reported from Asian and non-Asian countries following laparoscopic CM resection.

Citation: Schukfeh N, et al. The Role of Laparoscopic Treatment of Choledochal Malformation in Europe: A Single-Center Experience and Review of the Literature. The Role of Laparoscopic Treatment of Choledochal Malformation in Europe: A Single-Center Experience and Review of the Literature. 2022; 32:521-528. doi: 10.1055/s-0042-1749435

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35764302/
