PMID: 35770333
Title: Transcatheter aortic valve replacement in aortic stenosis and cardiac amyloidosis: a systematic review and meta-analysis.

Abstract: AIMS: Aortic stenosis (AS) and cardiac amyloidosis (CA) are typical diseases of the elderly. Up to 16% of older adults with severe AS referred to transcatheter aortic valve replacement (TAVR) have a concomitant diagnosis of CA. CA-AS population suffers from reduced functional capacity and worse prognosis than AS patients. As the prognostic impact of TAVR in patients with CA-AS has been historically questioned and in light of recently published evidence, we aim to provide a comprehensive synthesis of the efficacy and safety of TAVR in CA-AS patients.
METHODS AND RESULTS: We performed a systematic review and meta-analysis of studies: (i) evaluating mortality with TAVR as compared with medical therapy in CA-AS patients and (ii) reporting complications and clinical outcomes of TAVR in CA-AS patients as compared with patients with AS alone. A total of seven observational studies were identified: four reported mortality with TAVR, and four reported complications and clinical outcomes after TAVR of patients with CA-AS compared with AS alone patients. In patients with CA-AS, the risk of mortality was lower with TAVR (n = 44) as compared with medical therapy (n = 36) [odds ratio (OR) 0.23, 95% confidence interval (CI) 0.07-0.73, I2  = 0%, P = 0.001, number needed to treat = 3]. The safety profile of TAVR seems to be similar in patients with CA-AS (n = 75) as compared with those with AS alone (n = 536), with comparable risks of stroke, vascular complications, life-threatening bleeding, acute kidney injury, and 30 day mortality, although CA-AS was associated with a trend towards an increased risk of permanent pacemaker implantation (OR 1.76, 95% CI 0.91-4.09, I2  = 0%, P = 0.085). CA is associated with a numerically higher rate of long-term mortality and rehospitalizations following TAVR in patients with CA-AS as compared with those with AS alone.
CONCLUSIONS: TAVR is an effective and safe procedure in CA-AS patients, with a substantial survival benefit as compared with medical therapy, and a safety profile comparable with patients with AS alone except for a trend towards higher risk of permanent pacemaker implantation.

Citation: Cannata F, et al. Transcatheter aortic valve replacement in aortic stenosis and cardiac amyloidosis: a systematic review and meta-analysis. Transcatheter aortic valve replacement in aortic stenosis and cardiac amyloidosis: a systematic review and meta-analysis. 2022; 9:3188-3197. doi: 10.1002/ehf2.13876

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35770333/
