PMID: 35771085
Title: Long-term Clinical Outcomes and Predictive Factors for Living-donor Liver Transplant Recipients With Biliary Strictures.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Biliary strictures frequently occur in living-donor liver transplant (LDLT) recipients. However, long-term clinical outcomes and their associated factors are unclear.
METHODS: We analyzed an historical cohort of 228 recipients who underwent LDLT with post-liver transplantation biliary strictures. Endoscopic retrograde cholangiography or percutaneous transhepatic biliary drainage were performed to treat biliary strictures. Patients that experienced persistent jaundice over 3 mo after the initial treatment were defined as a remission-failure group.
RESULTS: Median observation period was 8.5 y after the diagnosis of biliary stricture. The 15-y graft survival (GS) rate was 70.6%, and 15-y rate of developing portal hypertension (PH) was 26.1%. Remission failure occurred in 25.0% of study participants. In the multivariate analysis, biopsy-proven acute rejection, and portal vein/hepatic artery abnormalities were risk factors for remission failure. Development of PH, retransplantation, and death were significantly more frequent in the remission-failure group. Remission failure and PH were associated with poor GS. In multivariate analyses, hepatic artery abnormality and biloma were common significant factors that were associated with a poor GS and development of PH.
CONCLUSIONS: The insufficient blood supply reflected by hepatic artery abnormality and biloma might be the most important factor that can predict poor long-term survival in LDLT patients with biliary strictures. Future large-scale prospective studies are needed to validate our observations.

Citation: Han JW, et al. Long-term Clinical Outcomes and Predictive Factors for Living-donor Liver Transplant Recipients With Biliary Strictures. Long-term Clinical Outcomes and Predictive Factors for Living-donor Liver Transplant Recipients With Biliary Strictures. 2022; 106:1990-1999. doi: 10.1097/TP.0000000000004201

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35771085/
