PMID: 35770108
Title: Unification venoplasty of the outflow hepatic vein for laparoscopically harvested left liver grafts in pediatric living donor liver transplantation.

Abstract: Laparoscopically harvested left liver (LL) grafts have drawbacks with respect to the size and shape of graft hepatic vein orifices. We present two cases of pediatric living donor liver transplantation (LDLT) using laparoscopically harvested LL grafts and describe refined surgical techniques for graft hepatic vein venoplasty. The first case was a boy aged 4 years and 5 months, with hepatoblastoma. The donor was his 35-year-old mother, and LL graft weighed 315 g. Two separate openings of the graft at the left hepatic vein (LHV) and middle hepatic vein (MHV) were unified through septotomy and septoplasty, and cryopreserved vein homograft patch was attached. Standard procedures of LDLT were performed. This patient recovered uneventfully and has been doing well for 4 years without tumor recurrence. The second case was a 6-year-old girl with ornithine transcarbamylase deficiency. The donor was her 35-year-old mother, and the LL graft weighed 310 g. Two separate openings of graft MHV, with segment III and segment II veins, were unified through septoplasty, and vein patch was attached. Standard procedures of LDLT were performed. This patient has been doing well for 4 years. In conclusion, separate graft hepatic vein openings are a drawback of laparoscopically harvested LL grafts, which thus require unification venoplasty of customized design individually tailored for LL graft and pediatric recipient.

Citation: Namgoong JM, et al. Unification venoplasty of the outflow hepatic vein for laparoscopically harvested left liver grafts in pediatric living donor liver transplantation. Unification venoplasty of the outflow hepatic vein for laparoscopically harvested left liver grafts in pediatric living donor liver transplantation. 2020; 34:293-301. doi: 10.4285/kjt.20.0027

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35770108/
