PMID: 35784962
Title: Laparoscopic Esophagogastric Anastomosis With Stapled Pseudo-Fornix for Reflux Esophagitis Prevention After Proximal Gastrectomy.

Abstract: Laparoscopic esophagogastric anastomosis is not commonly performed after proximal gastrectomy (PG) because of its technical complexity and the lack of a gold standard for reconstruction. We describe a simple and convenient technique of laparoscopic esophagogastrostomy with stapled pseudo-fornix for reflux esophagitis (RE) prevention after PG. Laparoscopic PG (LPG) was performed in four patients with gastric cancer in the upper third of the stomach, and the remnant stomach was prepared for reconstruction. After making a small hole on the anterior wall of the remnant stomach 45 mm distal to the proximal stump and on the dorsal side of the esophageal stump, a 45 mm no-knife linear stapler was applied. To create a "pseudo-fornix," a common lumen was made by cutting the center of the four staple rows at a length of 15 mm. The entry hole was closed using the laparoscopic hand-sewn suturing technique. The mean operation time was 240 min, with an estimated blood loss of <10 ml. No intraoperative complications or conversion to open surgery were observed. One patient developed stenosis of the esophagogastrostomy successfully treated by endoscopic balloon dilatation. Endoscopic surveillance three months after surgery revealed no incidence of RE in any of the patients. Laparoscopic esophagogastric anastomosis with stapled pseudo-fornix is convenient and beneficial in preventing RE after PG and should be considered the treatment of choice for reconstruction after LPG in selected patients with proximal gastric cancer.

Citation: Fujii Y, et al. Laparoscopic Esophagogastric Anastomosis With Stapled Pseudo-Fornix for Reflux Esophagitis Prevention After Proximal Gastrectomy. Laparoscopic Esophagogastric Anastomosis With Stapled Pseudo-Fornix for Reflux Esophagitis Prevention After Proximal Gastrectomy. 2022; 14:e25561. doi: 10.7759/cureus.25561

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35784962/
