PMID: 35782511
Title: Bone Marrow Derived Mesenchymal Stromal Cells Promote Vascularization and Ciliation in Airway Mucosa Tri-Culture Models in Vitro.

Abstract: Patients suffering from irresectable tracheal stenosis often face limited treatment options associated with low quality of life. To date, an optimal tracheal replacement strategy does not exist. A tissue-engineered tracheal substitute promises to overcome limitations such as implant vascularization, functional mucociliary clearance and mechanical stability. In order to advance a tracheal mucosa model recently developed by our group, we examined different supporting cell types in fibrin-based tri-culture with primary human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVEC) and primary human respiratory epithelial cells (HRE). Bone marrow-derived mesenchymal stromal cells (BM-MSC), adipose-derived mesenchymal stromal cells (ASC) and human nasal fibroblasts (HNF) were compared regarding their ability to promote mucociliary differentiation and vascularization in vitro. Three-dimensional co-cultures of the supporting cell types with either HRE or HUVEC were used as controls. Mucociliary differentiation and formation of vascular-like structures were analyzed by scanning electron microscopy (SEM), periodic acid Schiff's reaction (PAS reaction), two-photon laser scanning microscopy (TPLSM) and immunohistochemistry. Cytokine levels of vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF), epidermal growth factor (EGF), interleukin-6 (IL6), interleukin-8 (IL8), angiopoietin 1, angiopoietin 2, fibroblast growth factor basic (FGF-b) and placenta growth factor (PIGF) in media supernatant were investigated using LEGENDplex™ bead-based immunoassay. Epithelial morphology of tri-cultures with BM-MSC most closely resembled native respiratory epithelium with respect to ciliation, mucus production as well as expression and localization of epithelial cell markers pan-cytokeratin, claudin-1, α-tubulin and mucin5AC. This was followed by tri-cultures with HNF, while ASC-supported tri-cultures lacked mucociliary differentiation. For all supporting cell types, a reduced ciliation was observed in tri-cultures compared to the corresponding co-cultures. Although formation of vascular-like structures was confirmed in all cultures, vascular networks in BM-MSC-tri-cultures were found to be more branched and extended. Concentrations of pro-angiogenic and inflammatory cytokines, in particular VEGF and angiopoietin 2, revealed to be reduced in tri-cultures compared to co-cultures. With these results, our study provides an important step towards a vascularized and ciliated tissue-engineered tracheal replacement. Additionally, our tri-culture model may in the future contribute to an improved understanding of cell-cell interactions in diseases associated with impaired mucosal function.

Citation: Luengen AE, et al. Bone Marrow Derived Mesenchymal Stromal Cells Promote Vascularization and Ciliation in Airway Mucosa Tri-Culture Models in Vitro. Bone Marrow Derived Mesenchymal Stromal Cells Promote Vascularization and Ciliation in Airway Mucosa Tri-Culture Models in Vitro. 2022; 10:872275. doi: 10.3389/fbioe.2022.872275

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35782511/
