PMID: 35787962
Title: Percutaneous Intervertebral-Vacuum Polymethylmethacrylate Injection for Foraminal Stenosis with Degenerative Lumbar Scoliosis.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Percutaneous intervertebral-vacuum polymethylmethacrylate injection (PIPI) is a minimally invasive procedure for low back pain in elderly patients with degenerative lumbar scoliosis (DLS). Patients with DLS often have radiculopathy as a result of foraminal stenosis in addition to low back pain. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the clinical and radiologic results of PIPI for foraminal stenosis with radiculopathy in elderly patients with DLS.
METHODS: We included patients with de novo DLS aged 65 years or older who underwent PIPI. The presence of an intervertebral vacuum on computed tomography and bone marrow edema on magnetic resonance imaging was required for inclusion. The intersegmental radiologic parameters on plain radiographs and computed tomography and the extent of bone marrow edema on magnetic resonance imaging were measured. The clinical outcomes were evaluated using the visual analog scale (VAS) and Oswestry Disability Index (ODI).
RESULTS: We enrolled 40 patients with DLS who underwent PIPI. There were 16 men and 24 women, and the mean age was 79.0 ± 6.3 years. The mean foraminal height and extent of bone marrow edema showed a significant increase and reduction, respectively, after PIPI (P < 0.05). VAS score for radiculopathy and ODI significantly improved after PIPI (P < 0.01). The minimum clinically important differences in VAS score for radiculopathy and ODI at the final follow-up were 73.9% and 63.6%, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: PIPI is a minimally invasive procedure not only for low back pain but also for radiculopathy in elderly patients with DLS. It leads to intervertebral stabilization and indirect decompression of the foramen.

Citation: Nakamae T, et al. Percutaneous Intervertebral-Vacuum Polymethylmethacrylate Injection for Foraminal Stenosis with Degenerative Lumbar Scoliosis. Percutaneous Intervertebral-Vacuum Polymethylmethacrylate Injection for Foraminal Stenosis with Degenerative Lumbar Scoliosis. 2022; 165:e712-e720. doi: 10.1016/j.wneu.2022.06.125

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35787962/
