PMID: 35788425
Title: Comparison of spinous process-splitting laminectomy versus posterolateral fusion for lumbar degenerative spondylolisthesis.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Although several studies have recently shown that spinous process-splitting laminectomy (SPSL) maintains lumbar spinal stability by preserving posterior ligament components and paraspinal muscles as compared with conventional laminectomy, evidence is scarce on the treatment outcomes of SPSL limited to lumbar degenerative spondylolisthesis. We herein compare the surgical results and global alignment changes for SPSL versus posterolateral lumbar fusion (PLF) without instrumentation for lumbar degenerative spondylolisthesis.
METHODS: A total of 110 patients with Grade 1 lumbar degenerative spondylolisthesis who had undergone SPSL (47 patients) or PLF (63 patients) with minimum 1-year follow-up were retrospectively enrolled from a single institutional database.
RESULTS: Mean operating time per intervertebral level and intraoperative blood loss per intervertebral level were comparable between the SPSL group and PLF group. Japanese Orthopaedic Association scores, Oswestry disability index, and visual analog scale scores were significantly and comparably improved at 1 year postoperatively in both groups as compared with preoperative levels. The numbers of vertebrae with slip progression to Grade 2 and slip progression of 5% or more at 1 year postoperatively were similar between the groups. In the SPSL group, mean pelvic tilt (PT) was significantly decreased at 1 year postoperatively. In the PLF group, mean lumbar lordosis (LL) was significantly increased, while mean sagittal vertical axis, PT, and pelvic incidence-LL were significantly decreased at 1 year after surgery.
CONCLUSIONS: Compared with PLF without instrumentation, SPSL for Grade 1 lumbar degenerative spondylolisthesis displayed comparable results for slip progression and clinical outcomes at 1 year postoperatively.

Citation: Kurogochi D, et al. Comparison of spinous process-splitting laminectomy versus posterolateral fusion for lumbar degenerative spondylolisthesis. Comparison of spinous process-splitting laminectomy versus posterolateral fusion for lumbar degenerative spondylolisthesis. 2023; 32:447-454. doi: 10.1007/s00586-022-07298-5

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35788425/
