PMID: 35787451
Title: 4-Octyl itaconate suppresses the osteogenic response in aortic valvular interstitial cells via the Nrf2 pathway and alleviates aortic stenosis in mice with direct wire injury.

Abstract: Calcific aortic valve disease (CAVD) is the most prevalent valvular heart disease in older individuals, but there is a lack of drug treatment. The cellular biological mechanisms of CAVD are still unclear. Oxidative stress and endoplasmic reticulum stress (ER stress) have been suggested to be involved in the progression of CAVD. Many studies have demonstrated that 4-octyl itaconate (OI) plays beneficial roles in limiting inflammation and oxidative injury. However, the potential role of OI in CAVD has not been thoroughly explored. Thus, we investigated OI-mediated modulation of ROS generation and endoplasmic reticulum stress to inhibit osteogenic differentiation in aortic valve interstitial cells (VICs). In our study, calcified aortic valves showed increased levels of ER stress and superoxide anion, as well as abnormal expression of Hmox1 and NQO1. In VICs, OI activated the Nrf2 signaling cascade and contributed to Nrf2 stabilization and nuclear translocation, thus augmenting the expression of genes downstream of Nrf2 (Hmox1 and NQO1). Moreover, OI ameliorated osteogenic medium (OM)-induced ROS production, mitochondrial ROS levels and the loss of mitochondrial membrane potential in VICs. Furthermore, OI attenuated the OM-induced upregulation of ER stress markers, osteogenic markers and calcium deposition, which were blocked by the Nrf2-specific inhibitor ML385. Interestingly, we found that OM-induced ER stress and osteogenic differentiation were ROS-dependent and that Hmox1 silencing triggered ROS production, ER stress and elevated osteogenic activity, which were inhibited by NAC. Overexpression of NQO1 mediated by adenovirus vectors significantly suppressed OM-induced ER stress and osteogenic markers. Collectively, these results showed the anti-osteogenic effects of OI on AVICs by regulating the generation of ROS and ER stress by activating the Nrf2 signaling pathway. Furthermore, OI alleviated aortic stenosis in a mouse model with direct wire injury. Due to its antioxidant properties, OI could be a potential drug for the prevention and/or treatment of CAVD.

Citation: Peng X, et al. 4-Octyl itaconate suppresses the osteogenic response in aortic valvular interstitial cells via the Nrf2 pathway and alleviates aortic stenosis in mice with direct wire injury. 4-Octyl itaconate suppresses the osteogenic response in aortic valvular interstitial cells via the Nrf2 pathway and alleviates aortic stenosis in mice with direct wire injury. 2022; 188:404-418. doi: 10.1016/j.freeradbiomed.2022.06.246

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35787451/
