PMID: 35786111
Title: Utilizing the balloon anchoring technique to improve device deliverability during stent revascularization for atherosclerotic renal artery stenosis.

Abstract: INTRODUCTION: The stent revascularization for severely calcified renal artery lesions can be challenging, due to a deficiency in back-up force provided by the guide catheter. The aim of this report is to describe the use of the balloon anchoring technique to increase device maneuverability and deliverability after the failure of conventional renal artery revascularization.
TECHNICAL NOTE: This technique was adopted in a patient with subtotal occlusive and severely calcified lesion in the proximal portion of the right main renal artery. Two guidewires were separately introduced into the proximal side branch (SB) and main branch (MB) of the renal artery. Anchor balloon inflated at low pressure in SB, anchoring the MB-wire and the guide catheter, thus giving us the ability to cross the tight calcified proximal cap of the MB lesion with a non-compliant balloon. After performing pre-dilatations and retrieving the anchor balloon, we implanted a balloon-expandable stent and achieved optimal final angiographic results.
CONCLUSIONS: The balloon anchoring technique can improve device maneuverability and deliverability during various catheterization procedures. Our report firstly demonstrates how to perform the balloon anchoring technique in renal angioplasty treatment and then explains its effectiveness in revascularization of the renal artery with challenging anatomies.

Citation: Huang X, et al. Utilizing the balloon anchoring technique to improve device deliverability during stent revascularization for atherosclerotic renal artery stenosis. Utilizing the balloon anchoring technique to improve device deliverability during stent revascularization for atherosclerotic renal artery stenosis. 2023; 31:1209-1213. doi: 10.1177/17085381221112549

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35786111/
