PMID: 35793649
Title: Fetal Echocardiographic Predictors of Postnatal Surgical Strategies in Critical Pulmonary Stenosis or Atresia with Intact Ventricular Septum: A Meta-Analysis.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Critical pulmonary stenosis or atresia with intact ventricular septum (PSAIVS) may be managed either by biventricular repair or univentricular palliation. This systematic review and meta-analysis aimed to synthesize the evidence for the role of fetal echocardiography in predicting the postnatal treatment pathway.
METHODS: PubMed/MEDLINE, CINHAL, Cochrane Library, Academic Search Complete, Web of Science, and Trip Pro were searched for observational studies published before July 2021. Random-effects meta-analysis was performed to identify factors associated with biventricular repair.
RESULTS: Eleven individual studies published between 2006 and 2021, including a total of 285 participants (159 biventricular repair; 126 univentricular palliation), met our eligibility criteria. The pooled estimated prevalence of biventricular repair among patients with PSAIVS was 55.6% (95% confidence interval 48.5-62.5%). Those who underwent biventricular repair had greater right to left ventricle and tricuspid to mitral valve dimension ratios, greater TV z score, and longer TV inflow duration/cardiac cycle length by fetal echocardiography. They were also more likely to have significant tricuspid regurgitation and less likely to have ventriculo-coronary connections (VCCs).
CONCLUSIONS: Commonly obtained fetal echocardiographic measurements have strong associations with treatment pathway choice for patients with PSAIVS. Greater RV growth appears to favor biventricular repair, whereas patients with VCC almost invariably undergo univentricular palliation. Future studies should aim to establish how these fetal echocardiographic parameters might predict outcomes for the two treatment pathways.

Citation: Shivaram P, et al. Fetal Echocardiographic Predictors of Postnatal Surgical Strategies in Critical Pulmonary Stenosis or Atresia with Intact Ventricular Septum: A Meta-Analysis. Fetal Echocardiographic Predictors of Postnatal Surgical Strategies in Critical Pulmonary Stenosis or Atresia with Intact Ventricular Septum: A Meta-Analysis. 2022; 49:225-234. doi: 10.1159/000525718

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35793649/
