PMID: 35796036
Title: Preoperative hypomagnesemia as a possible predictive factor for postoperative increase of transvalvular pressure gradient in hemodialysis patients treated with transcatheter aortic valve implantation.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Patients undergoing maintenance hemodialysis (HD) with severe aortic stenosis are at a high risk for bioprosthetic valve dysfunction after transcatheter aortic valve implantation (TAVI). Currently, preoperative factors that predict the occurrence of valve dysfunction after TAVI on HD patients remain to be elucidated. The aim of this study is to analyze the association between preoperative clinical factors and valve stenosis after TAVI on HD patients.
METHODS: Twenty-four of HD patients who underwent TAVI at our institution between April 2012 and January 2016 were analyzed. The mean aortic transvalvular pressure gradient (MPG) and effective orifice area index (EOAi) were assessed by serial echocardiography. Associations between preoperative clinical factors and time-series changes in MPG were examined using mixed-effects linear regression model for repeated measures.
RESULTS: Three patients developed severe structural valve deterioration with calcific valve stenosis requiring reoperation. A multivariate linear mixed-effects model showed that lower serum magnesium (sMg) levels were associated with the increase of MPG after TAVI (beta-coefficient = 0.019, p = 0.03). No correlation was observed with serum calcium, phosphorus, or intact parathyroid hormone. Time-series changes of MPG and EOAi had significant difference between lower and higher sMg group. All 3 of the patients who underwent reoperation showed lower preoperative sMgs.
CONCLUSION: Among bone-mineral metabolism markers, preoperative hypomagnesemia was associated with the increase of MPG after TAVI, suggesting that hypomagnesemia could predict post-TAVI valve dysfunction in HD patients. Further studies with larger sample sizes are warranted.

Citation: Masuyama S, et al. Preoperative hypomagnesemia as a possible predictive factor for postoperative increase of transvalvular pressure gradient in hemodialysis patients treated with transcatheter aortic valve implantation. Preoperative hypomagnesemia as a possible predictive factor for postoperative increase of transvalvular pressure gradient in hemodialysis patients treated with transcatheter aortic valve implantation. 2022; 44:1083-1089. doi: 10.1080/0886022X.2022.2094272

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35796036/
