PMID: 35792762
Title: Risk factors for post-endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography cholangitis in patients with hepatic alveolar echinococcosis-an observational study.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Hepatic alveolar echinococcosis (HAE) is considered to be one of the most deadly chronic parasitic diseases in the world. We have shown that the incidence of cholangitis in patients who underwent endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography (ERCP) was increased significantly. On this finding, we carried out, a preliminary study on the risk factors for cholangitis after ERCP.
AIMS: To retrospectively detect the risk factors for post-ERCP cholangitis in patients with biliary tract affected by HAE.
METHODS: The study included data from 51 cases of AE who had undergone therapeutic ERCP between January 2015 and December 2019. Demographic and treatment data were extracted from the medical records, and the association between potential risk factors and the development of post-ERCP cholangitis was evaluated using a collected database.
RESULTS: There were five cases of mild cholangitis after ERCP (Tokyo criteria), and no moderate or severe cholangitis occurred. The incidence rate of cholangitis after ERCP was 9.8%. Univariate analysis showed hilar bile duct stenosis (p = .016), endoscopic retrograde biliary drainage (p = .007), a stent diameter ≥8.5 Fr (p = .000) and single stent implantation (p = .010) were risk factors for post -ERCP cholangitis. All cases of cholangitis improved under conservative treatment.
CONCLUSION: Patients with hilar bile duct compression or endoscopic retrograde biliary drainage appeared to be more likely to develop post-ERCP cholangitis. The number and diameter of biliary stents may influence post-ERCP cholangitis. Sample size and clinical heterogeneity are two insurmountable difficulties, and a larger sample size needs to be collected to verify the risk factors for screening. KEY MESSAGESMany studies reported the post-ERCP complications in patients with hepatic alveolar echinococcosis and found that the incidence of post-ERCP cholangitis was significantly high. Therefore, we conducted a preliminary study on the risk factors of postoperative cholangitis in patients who underwent ERCP.The incidence rate of cholangitis after ERCP was 9.8%. We found that hilar bile duct stenosis, and endoscopic retrograde biliary drainage, were risk factors for cholangitis, and stent diameter and the number of stent implantation may influence the incidence rate of cholangitis after ERCP.Sample size and clinical heterogeneity are two insurmountable difficulties, and a larger sample size needs to be collected to verify the risk factors of screening.

Citation: Du F, et al. Risk factors for post-endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography cholangitis in patients with hepatic alveolar echinococcosis-an observational study. Risk factors for post-endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography cholangitis in patients with hepatic alveolar echinococcosis-an observational study. 2022; 54:1809-1815. doi: 10.1080/07853890.2022.2091792

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35792762/
