PMID: 35795368
Title: Assessment and Treatment for Coronary Microvascular Dysfunction by Contrast Enhanced Ultrasound.

Abstract: With growing evidence in clinical practice, the understanding of coronary syndromes has gradually evolved out of focusing on the well-established link between stenosis of epicardial coronary artery and myocardial ischemia to the structural and functional abnormalities at the level of coronary microcirculation, known as coronary microvascular dysfunction (CMD). CMD encompasses several pathophysiological mechanisms of coronary microcirculation and is considered as an important cause of myocardial ischemia in patients with angina symptoms without obstructive coronary artery disease (CAD). As a result of growing knowledge of the understanding of CMD assessed by multiple non-invasive modalities, CMD has also been found to be involved in other cardiovascular diseases, including primary cardiomyopathies as well as heart failure with preserved ejection fraction (HFpEF). In the past 2 decades, almost all the imaging modalities have been used to non-invasively quantify myocardial blood flow (MBF) and promote a better understanding of CMD. Myocardial contrast echocardiography (MCE) is a breakthrough as a non-invasive technique, which enables assessment of myocardial perfusion and quantification of MBF, exhibiting promising diagnostic performances that were comparable to other non-invasive techniques. With unique advantages over other non-invasive techniques, MCE has gradually developed into a novel modality for assessment of the coronary microvasculature, which may provide novel insights into the pathophysiological role of CMD in different clinical conditions. Moreover, the sonothrombolysis and the application of artificial intelligence (AI) will offer the opportunity to extend the use of contrast ultrasound theragnostics.

Citation: Zhan J, et al. Assessment and Treatment for Coronary Microvascular Dysfunction by Contrast Enhanced Ultrasound. Assessment and Treatment for Coronary Microvascular Dysfunction by Contrast Enhanced Ultrasound. 2022; 9:899099. doi: 10.3389/fcvm.2022.899099

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35795368/
