PMID: 35805018
Title: Implementation of Image-Guided Brachytherapy for Pediatric Vaginal Cancers: Feasibility and Early Clinical Results.

Abstract: Background: Brachytherapy (BT) has a major role in pediatric cancers of the lower genital tract, as part of a multimodal organ conservative strategy. Scarce data are available on the location of image-guided BT. Methods: Medical records of all consecutive girls treated in our center between 2005 and 2020 for a vaginal tumor with exclusive image-guided PDR-BT were retrospectively examined, with a focus on treatment parameters, patient compliance, and clinical outcome, including analysis of local control, survival and late toxicity rates. Results: Twenty-six patients were identified, with a median age of 25 months. Histological types were rhabdomyosarcoma, malignant germ cell tumor (MGCT) and clear cell adenocarcinoma in 18 (69%), 7 (27%) and 1 (4%) patients, respectively. Ten (33%) patients had prior surgery and 25 (96%) received chemotherapy prior to BT. The median prescribed dose was 60 Gy through pulses of 0.42 Gy. Global compliance was satisfactory, but three (12%) patients required replanning because of applicator displacement. After a median follow-up of 47.5 months, one patient with MGCT referred for salvage treatment of a local recurrence had a local and metastatic relapse. The local control rate probability was 96% at the last follow-up. Late toxicity rates ≥ grade 2 and ≥ grade 3 were reported in 23% and 11%, respectively, with gynecological toxicities being the most frequent side effect. Two patients required dilatation for vaginal stenosis. Conclusions: PDR-BT allowed similar local control compared to the historical low-dose rate technique. An indirect comparison suggests fewer treatment-related toxicities by integrating image guidance and optimization capabilities, but longer follow-up is necessary. Due to the rarity of the disease and the technical aspects of BT in these very young patients, referral to specialized high-volume centers is recommended.

Citation: Terlizzi M, et al. Implementation of Image-Guided Brachytherapy for Pediatric Vaginal Cancers: Feasibility and Early Clinical Results. Implementation of Image-Guided Brachytherapy for Pediatric Vaginal Cancers: Feasibility and Early Clinical Results. 2022; 14:(unknown pages). doi: 10.3390/cancers14133247

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35805018/
