PMID: 35802184
Title: Impact of myocardial bridge on non-culprit vessel lumen changes in patients with acute coronary syndrome.

Abstract: This study aims to clarify the impact of myocardial bridge (MB) on the presence and progression of atherosclerosis in left descending coronary artery (LAD) in patients with acute coronary syndrome (ACS). Ninety-eight patients who underwent percutaneous coronary intervention with the diagnosis of ACS and follow-up coronary angiography but had no significant stenosis in the LAD were included. MB was defined based on coronary angiography. Quantitative coronary angiography was performed to determine the segments where MB was present and proximal to the MB (proximal segment) in patients with MB. In patients without MB, a corresponding region was quantitatively analyzed. The primary endpoint was changes in minimum lumen diameter (MLD) and percentage of diameter stenosis (%DS) in the proximal segment from baseline to follow-up angiography, namely ΔMLD and Δ%DS. MB was identified in 29 (29.6%) patients. Patients with MB had larger MLD and smaller %DS in the proximal segment than their counterpart. During the mean follow-up period of 12.9 ± 5.7 months, MLD and %DS in the proximal segment did not change significantly from baseline to follow-up in patients with and without MB. No significant between-group differences were observed in ΔMLD and Δ%DS. Baseline MLD was identified as the only factor associated with ΔMLD in the proximal segment. ACS patients who had MB but no significant stenosis in the LAD had larger MLD and smaller %DS at the segment proximal to MB compared to those without. In this selected population, serial lumen changes assessed by ΔMLD were not associated with the presence of MB in the LAD.

Citation: Saito K, et al. Impact of myocardial bridge on non-culprit vessel lumen changes in patients with acute coronary syndrome. Impact of myocardial bridge on non-culprit vessel lumen changes in patients with acute coronary syndrome. 2023; 38:32-39. doi: 10.1007/s00380-022-02130-y

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35802184/
