PMID: 35817747
Title: Percutaneous superior vena cava puncture successful recanalization of a long-segment, angled central venous occlusion: a case report.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Multiple complete central venous occlusion (CVO) is rare complication among the hemodialysis population. Percutaneous transluminal angioplasty (PTA) is the recommended treatment for CVO; however, cases with long-segment occlusion remain challenging.
CASE DESCRIPTION: We reported a patient who complained of a swollen right arm for 1 month. On admission, his vital signs were within normal limits. The 76-year-old man had been on hemodialysis with a right forearm arteriovenous fistula (AVF) for 4 years with a history of temporizing catheterization and left forearm AVF failure. One year ago, he gradually developed a slight swelling in his right arm and the swelling in his arm was significantly worse one month ago. Digital subtraction angiography (DSA) revealed occlusion in his right innominate vein (IV), proximal subclavian vein (SV), and external and internal jugular veins, as well as stenosis of the ipsilateral cephalic arch and axillary vein (AV). The operation was performed with a pioneered bidirectional approach via ipsilateral superior vena cava (SVC) and AV puncture. The occluded lesions were successfully recanalized, and the patient's symptoms resolved after the operation. The patency of his vascular access was well maintained at the 4-month follow-up.
CONCLUSIONS: To the best of our knowledge, this is the first report regarding the application of SVC puncture in PTA for CVO. This technique could be a possible approach when performed by appropriately qualified operators in patients with limited or no other options.

Citation: Huang XR, et al. Percutaneous superior vena cava puncture successful recanalization of a long-segment, angled central venous occlusion: a case report. Percutaneous superior vena cava puncture successful recanalization of a long-segment, angled central venous occlusion: a case report. 2022; 11:2139-2143. doi: 10.21037/apm-22-529

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35817747/
