PMID: 35814313
Title: Percutaneous Transluminal Angioplasty of Dysfunctional Hemodialysis Vascular Access: Can Careful Selection of Patients Improve the Outcomes?

Abstract: INTRODUCTION: Our study aimed to evaluate the role of endovascular intervention in salvaging hemodialysis access in patients of end-stage renal disease with specific attention to features that may predict a poor outcome. We also evaluated the role of ultrasonography (USG) in the management of these patients.
METHODS: Forty-two patients with dysfunctional hemodialysis arteriovenous fistulas (AVF) were taken up for percutaneous transluminal angioplasty (PTA) with or without stent placement. All patients underwent a pre- and postprocedural USG Doppler to assess parameters such as mean flow, mean peak systolic velocity, and vessel diameter. Technical and clinical success rates were calculated, and characteristics causing increased failure rates (long-segment and multisite stenosis and diabetes) were noted.
RESULTS: The most common sites of stenosis were the anastomotic and perianastomotic sites (n = 27, 63%) on the venous side followed by distal venous drainage site (23%) and central venous stenosis (14%). The technical and clinical success rates were 98% and 92%, respectively. Three- and 6-month patency rates were 83% and 71%, respectively. Common characteristics in patients with failure (primary or secondary) were diabetes, increased age, increased length of stenosis (&gt;2cm) and multisite stenosis. USG Doppler parameters showed a significant improvement post-PTA (P &lt; 0.001) indicating clinical success. No major complication was noted in our study.
CONCLUSION: PTA is successful for dysfunctional hemodialysis access. Careful selection of patients can improve the success rates and decrease economic burden in a resource-constrained country like ours. USG Doppler is essential in the assessment of iatrogenic hemodialysis AVFs.

Citation: Khan T, et al. Percutaneous Transluminal Angioplasty of Dysfunctional Hemodialysis Vascular Access: Can Careful Selection of Patients Improve the Outcomes?. Percutaneous Transluminal Angioplasty of Dysfunctional Hemodialysis Vascular Access: Can Careful Selection of Patients Improve the Outcomes?. 2022; 32:233-239. doi: 10.4103/ijn.IJN_113_21

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35814313/
