PMID: 35813754
Title: Endoscopic ultrasound-guided fine needle aspiration for smooth benign appearing malignant esophageal stricture: a cross-sectional study.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Endoscopic biopsy is standard for the diagnosis of esophageal malignancy. However, few cases are difficult to diagnose as they present with smooth esophageal stricture with negative biopsy results. We aimed to evaluate the effectiveness and safety of endoscopic ultrasound-guided fine needle aspiration (EUS-FNA) in the diagnosis of biopsy-negative suspected malignant esophageal strictures.
METHODS: We retrospectively analyzed cases of esophageal stricture with negative biopsies. From September 2016 to November 2021, 50 patients were enrolled. All the patients accepted the EUS-FNA examination. And histological and cytological specimens were obtained from all patients. Clinical, endoscopic, imaging, cytological, and histopathological results were noted and analyzed.
RESULTS: A total of 50 patients (40 male and 10 female) were enrolled in this study. The 19G puncture needle was used in 6 cases and the 22G puncture needle was used in 44 cases; an average of 2.7 needles were used per case. Satisfactory specimens were obtained by EUS-FNA for all subjects. All patients were diagnosed as malignant tumor. The diagnosis was confirmed by EUS-FNA biopsies in 98% of patients. Based on the surgical pathology results, there were 16 cases of esophageal squamous cell carcinoma, 2 cases of esophageal metastatic carcinoma, 1 case of esophageal sarcoma, 22 cases of lung cancer, 6 cases of mediastinal lymph node metastasis, and 3 cases of mediastinal tumor. No obvious complications were observed. A total of 5 cases were treated with surgery, 28 with chemotherapy, 3 with chemotherapy + surgery, and 12 with radiotherapy; 2 patients ceased treatment. No obvious complications, such as bleeding and mediastinal infection, were observed.
CONCLUSIONS: EUS-FNA is effective and safe for the diagnosis of malignant esophageal strictures with smooth overlying esophageal mucosa. EUS-FNA is effective and safe for patients with smooth esophagus stenosis for whom satisfactory cytological and histological specimens can be obtained, and the diagnosis can be confirmed by cytological, histological, and immunohistochemical examinations. It can be used as the first choice for diagnosis and treatment.

Citation: Cao F, et al. Endoscopic ultrasound-guided fine needle aspiration for smooth benign appearing malignant esophageal stricture: a cross-sectional study. Endoscopic ultrasound-guided fine needle aspiration for smooth benign appearing malignant esophageal stricture: a cross-sectional study. 2022; 14:2112-2121. doi: 10.21037/jtd-22-584

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35813754/
