PMID: 35820887
Title: Supervised physical therapy versus surgery for patients with lumbar spinal stenosis: a propensity score-matched analysis.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Previous studies comparing surgical with nonsurgical treatment for lumbar spinal stenosis (LSS) reported that surgery is superior to nonsurgical treatments, but intensive and adequate volume of physical therapy were rarely performed. The purpose of this study was to compare the 1-year follow-up outcomes of patients with LSS treated with supervised physical therapy or surgery using propensity score-matched analysis.
METHODS: A total of 224 patients with LSS who received supervised physical therapy (n = 38) or surgery (n = 186) were included, of which 66 were matched on baseline demographics, radiological findings, and patient-reported outcomes. The physical therapy group received supervised physical therapy twice weekly for 6 weeks. The physical therapy sessions included manual therapy, individually tailored exercises, cycling, and body-weight supported treadmill walking. The surgery group underwent decompression surgery with or without spinal fusion. A propensity score analysis was performed using a one-to-one nearest neighbor approach.
RESULTS: The surgery group showed greater improvements in Zurich claudication questionnaire symptom severity and physical function, SF-36 physical functioning, bodily pain, and mental health, but had more severe stenosis and symptoms and mental health problems than the physical therapy group at baseline (P <  0.05). After propensity score matching, there were no significant differences in baseline characteristics, and all clinical outcomes at 1 year, except for a higher percentage of responders achieving minimum clinically important difference in the role-emotional subscale of SF-36 in the surgery group (P <  0.05).
CONCLUSIONS: When baseline characteristics were considered, supervised physical therapy yielded similar effects to lumbar surgery. These results suggest that supervised physical therapy is preferred over surgery as first-choice treatment, to prevent complications and to minimize health care costs, especially in mild to moderate cases of LSS.

Citation: Minetama M, et al. Supervised physical therapy versus surgery for patients with lumbar spinal stenosis: a propensity score-matched analysis. Supervised physical therapy versus surgery for patients with lumbar spinal stenosis: a propensity score-matched analysis. 2022; 23:658. doi: 10.1186/s12891-022-05632-y

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35820887/
