PMID: 35829658
Title: Efficacy and safety of triamcinolone acetonide in the prevention of esophageal stricture after endoscopic submucosal dissection: a meta-analysis.

Abstract: AIM: The role of triamcinolone acetonide (TA) in the prevention of esophageal stricture is not well established. This meta-analysis aimed to evaluate its safety and efficacy for the prevention of esophageal stricture after endoscopic submucosal dissection (ESD).
METHODS: A comprehensive search was performed in electronic databases including PubMed, the Cochrane Library, Embase for possible controlled studies. The primary outcomes were stenosis rate and endoscopic balloon dilatation (EBD) sessions required, and secondary outcome included complications. Random effects were used to calculate the pooled outcome. Sensitivity analysis and publication bias were conducted to verify the robustness and reliability of the results. Results: Ten studies containing 499 patients were obtained. In the pooled analysis, statistical significance was found in triamcinolone acetonide injection reduced the incidence of stenosis (OR = 0.29, 95% CI [0.11, 0.80], P < 0.05) and the number of endoscopic balloon dilation (MD = -3.33, 95% CI [-4.15, -2.50], P < 0.0001) compared with control. Triamcinolone acetonide injection therapy did not increase the risk of complications (OR = -0.77%, CI [-1.62, 0.09], P = 0.08). Subgroup analysis indicated that the single injection of triamcinolone acetonide after endoscopic submucosal dissection significantly reduced the incidence of stenosis compared with without any prophylaxis. Different concentrations and single session volume of triamcinolone acetonide reduced the incidence of stenosis. It also showed that the dose according to the size of the lesion was more effective than the fixed dose in preventing esophageal stricture. Conclusion: Triamcinolone acetonide injection can reduce the incidence of stricture formation as well as the need for EBD sessions without increasing complications.

Citation: Jia Y, et al. Efficacy and safety of triamcinolone acetonide in the prevention of esophageal stricture after endoscopic submucosal dissection: a meta-analysis. Efficacy and safety of triamcinolone acetonide in the prevention of esophageal stricture after endoscopic submucosal dissection: a meta-analysis. 2022; 35:(unknown pages). doi: 10.1093/dote/doac039

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35829658/
