PMID: 35835327
Title: Quantitative assessment of retinal vessel density and thickness changes in internal carotid artery stenosis patients using optical coherence tomography angiography.

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: To quantitatively assess the retinal features of patients with different degrees of internal carotid artery stenosis (ICAS), particularly mild ICAS patients, utilizing optical coherence tomography angiography (OCTA).
METHODS: Thirty-two mild ICAS patients (mild ICAS group), 34 moderate to severe ICAS patients (nonmild ICAS group), and 40 controls were enrolled in this study. Retinal vessel density was quantitatively measured by OCTA, including radial peripapillary capillary vessel density (RPC-VD), superficial and deep capillary plexus vessel density (SCP/DCP-VD). Structural parameters were collected from optical coherence tomography (OCT), including retinal thickness and subfoveal choroidal thickness (SFCT). Furthermore, LASSO-penalized logistic regression was used to construct the diagnostic model based on retinal parameters. ROC curves and nomogram plots were used to assess the diagnostic ability of this model for ICAS.
RESULTS: The macular SCP-VD of mild ICAS patients was significantly lower than that of controls and lower than that of nonmild ICAS patients (all p < 0.05). However, there was no difference among the three groups in terms of DCP-VD (p > 0.05). RPC-VD could effectively discriminate between the mild ICAS group and the nonmild ICAS group (p = 0.005). For structural OCT, only the SFCT decreased as the ICAS degree increased (p < 0.05). Diagnostic scores based on retinal parameters showed a strong diagnostic capability for mild ICAS (AUC = 0.8656).
CONCLUSION: Mild ICAS patients exhibited distinct retinal features compared to nonmild ICAS patients and control subjects. OCTA potentially represents a promising method for the early detection of ICAS patients and the noninvasive surveillance of haemodynamic changes in those patients.

Citation: Liu X, et al. Quantitative assessment of retinal vessel density and thickness changes in internal carotid artery stenosis patients using optical coherence tomography angiography. Quantitative assessment of retinal vessel density and thickness changes in internal carotid artery stenosis patients using optical coherence tomography angiography. 2022; 39:103006. doi: 10.1016/j.pdpdt.2022.103006

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35835327/
