PMID: 35832456
Title: The procedure and effectiveness of release maneuvers in tracheobronchial resection and reconstruction.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Surgical resection and reconstruction are effective and radical treatments for tracheal tumors. Tension-free, well-perfused anastomosis plays a crucial role in postoperative prognosis. The use of various release maneuvers may be required to minimize anastomotic tension. However, the detailed procedures and effectiveness of them are seldomly reported. In the current study, we demonstrated the procedures and advantages of various release maneuvers during tracheal resection and reconstruction.
METHODS: All patients who underwent tracheobronchial resection and reconstruction between January 2019 to December 2021 were included in the study. The patients underwent tracheal release maneuvers, including laryngeal suprahyoid, pericardial, hilar, and inferior pulmonary ligament releasing. The patients' clinical features, surgical procedures, complications and postoperative outcomes were also described.
RESULTS: A total of 67 patients received release maneuvers during tracheobronchial surgery. Males accounted for a greater proportion (46/67, 65.7%) of the cohort. The mean age was 44.4 years. Most lesions were located in the thoracic and cervical trachea (21/67 and 17/67, respectively), and 18 cases of carinal (9/67) and bronchial (9/67) lesions were also included. Inferior pulmonary ligament releasing was applied to most noncervical lesion patients (39/67). Two cases of thyroid carcinoma with tracheal invasion received laryngeal suprahyoid release maneuvers. Adenoid cystic carcinoma (26.9%) and squamous cell carcinoma (14.9%) were the most commonly seen malignancies. Postoperative bronchoscopy showed no anastomotic abnormalities, including ischemic change, necrosis, or dehiscence. The median postoperative hospital stay was 7 days, ranging from 4 to 38 days. In the current study, a patient with postoperative aspiration had the longest hospital stay. In addition, 3 cases of anastomotic stenosis and laryngeal edema were observed. No other maneuver-related complications or particular discomforts were reported during the 6-month follow-up.
CONCLUSIONS: Anastomosis is the key to successful tracheobronchial resection and reconstruction. Release maneuvers are recommended to facilitate tension-free anastomosis. In addition to simple neck flexion and paratracheal dissection, laryngeal, hilar, and pericardial releasing allow longer trachea to be resected and preservation of well-vascularized anastomosis. The release maneuvers showed acceptable effect and reliable safety without significant morbidity or mortality.

Citation: He J, et al. The procedure and effectiveness of release maneuvers in tracheobronchial resection and reconstruction. The procedure and effectiveness of release maneuvers in tracheobronchial resection and reconstruction. 2022; 11:1154-1164. doi: 10.21037/tlcr-22-385

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35832456/
