PMID: 35831886
Title: Reasonable requests: echocardiography referral forms as a measure of coherent clinical communication.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Well performed clinical communication is a cornerstone of collaborative care in medicine but may be confounded by inconsistent intentions of the messenger and biased interpretation by the recipient. A comparison of the findings of electronic echocardiography reports with clinician-completed standardised request forms provided an opportunity to assess communication quality.
AIM: The study aimed to determine clinician aptitude to complete written echocardiography referral forms by assessing the completeness, appropriateness, accuracy, and coherency of the reported clinical findings, conclusions and requests made on the referral forms. The study explored factors that may influence the quality of communication through this referral medium.
METHODS: A retrospective cohort study was conducted on patients who underwent trans-thoracic echocardiography imaging at Cecilia Makiwane Hospital in East London over 26 months. Paper echocardiography request forms that recorded the requesting clinician's findings on examination, the provisional clinical diagnosis, and the specific echocardiographic information sought, were compared with the actual findings on echocardiography.
RESULTS: Of 613 request forms reviewed, 97 cases were excluded due to illegibility or because they lacked analysable information or requester details, leaving 516 forms suitable for study. No pathology was found on echocardiography in 31%. Of the murmurs expected from the echocardiography findings, only half were recorded on the request form (sensitivity and positive predictive value both 52%.). Only 35% of request forms that mentioned a mitral systolic murmur gave a working diagnosis of mitral regurgitation and only 38% of request forms that mentioned an aortic systolic murmur considered aortic stenosis. Clinically suspected cardiomyopathy (CMO) had a PPV of 43% and echocardiographic CMO was missed clinically in 41%. Apex beat displacement reported clinically was not associated with echocardiographic LV dilatation in 65% of cases. One-third (34%) of forms reporting murmurs did not request valve function assessment and 17% considering cardiomyopathy did not request left ventricular function assessment.
CONCLUSION: Echocardiography request forms highlight vulnerabilities in clinical communication. Specifically, important clinical features were missing and more concerningly, included when unlikely to be present. There was a lack of concordance between recorded clinical findings and postulated diagnoses. Clinicians sometimes appeared unclear about the value or appropriateness of the requested assistance. Greater emphasis on teaching examination and communication skills may foster safer and more efficient use of scarce resources.

Citation: Kotzé C and Parrish A. Reasonable requests: echocardiography referral forms as a measure of coherent clinical communication. Reasonable requests: echocardiography referral forms as a measure of coherent clinical communication. 2022; 22:538. doi: 10.1186/s12909-022-03602-5

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35831886/
