PMID: 35843181
Title: The use of the T-tube in biliary tract reconstruction during orthotopic liver transplantation: An umbrella review.

Abstract: Biliary complications are one of the main concerns after liver transplantation, and to avoid these, the use of a T-tube has been advocated in biliary reconstruction. Most liver transplantation centres perform a biliary anastomosis without a T-tube to avoid the risk of complications and T-tube-related costs. Several meta-analyses have reached discordant conclusions regarding the benefits of using the T-tube. An umbrella review was performed to summarise quantitative measures about overall biliary complications, biliary leaks, biliary strictures and cholangitis associated with the T-tube use after liver transplantation. Published systematic reviews and meta-analyses related to the use of T-Tube in liver transplantation were searched and analysed. From the comprehensive literature search from PubMed, EMBASE and Cochrane Library databases on the 25th of October 2021, 104 records were retrieved. Seven meta-analyses and two systematic reviews were included in the final analysis. All the meta-analyses of RCT stated no differences in overall biliary complications and biliary leaks when using T-tube for a liver transplant (I2 ≥ 90% and I2 range 0-76%, respectively). The meta-analysis of the RCTs evaluating the risks of biliary strictures after liver transplantation showed that T-tube protects from the complication (I2 range 0-80%). Biliary anastomosis without a T-tube has equivalent overall biliary complications and bile leaks compared to the T-tube reconstruction. The incidence of biliary strictures is attenuated in patients with T-tubes, and most meta-analyses of RCTs have very low heterogeneity. Therefore, the present umbrella review suggests a selective T-tube use, particularly in small biliary ducts or transplants with marginal grafts at high risk of post-LT strictures.

Citation: Martinino A, et al. The use of the T-tube in biliary tract reconstruction during orthotopic liver transplantation: An umbrella review. The use of the T-tube in biliary tract reconstruction during orthotopic liver transplantation: An umbrella review. 2022; 36:100711. doi: 10.1016/j.trre.2022.100711

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35843181/
