PMID: 35842583
Title: Excimer laser ablation combined with drug-coated balloon versus drug-coated balloon in the treatment of de novo atherosclerotic lesions in lower extremities (ELABORATE): study protocol for a real-world clinical trial.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: The efficacy and validity of excimer laser ablation (ELA) in the in-stent restenosis (ISR) has been confirmed. However, its application in de novo atherosclerotic lesions of lower extremity artery disease (LEAD) has not been clearly defined and its procedure has not been standardized.
METHODS: ELABORATE is a prospective, multicenter, real-world study designed to evaluate the efficacy and safety between ELA combined with drug-coated balloon (DCB) and DCB alone in de novo atherosclerotic lesions of LEAD.
DISCUSSION: ELABORATE is a prospective, multicenter, real-world study designed to assess the efficacy and safety between ELA combined with drug-coated balloon (DCB) and DCB alone in patients with de novo atherosclerotic lesions of LEAD. According to the real-world situation, eligible patients will be allocated to ELA + DCB group (group E) and DCB group (group C). Baseline and follow-up information (at 3, 6, and 12 months) will be collected. The primary efficacy point is primary patency at 12-months, and the secondary efficacy points include clinically driven target lesion reintervention (CD-TLR), change of Rutherford class, ankle-brachial index and ulcer healing rate. These indexes will be assessed and recorded at 3, 6, and 12-month follow-up. Also, safety evaluation, including major adverse event, all-cause mortality through 30-day follow-up, unplanned major amputation, bailout stent and distal embolization, will also be evaluated by an independent core laboratory. All the data will be collected and recorded by the electric data capture system. This study will be finished in 3 years and the 12-month results will be available in 2023. All the patients will be followed for 5 years. Trial registration number Chinese Clinical Trial Registry (ChiCTR2100051263). Registered 17 September 2019. http://www.chictr.org.cn/listbycreater.aspx .

Citation: Jiang X, et al. Excimer laser ablation combined with drug-coated balloon versus drug-coated balloon in the treatment of de novo atherosclerotic lesions in lower extremities (ELABORATE): study protocol for a real-world clinical trial. Excimer laser ablation combined with drug-coated balloon versus drug-coated balloon in the treatment of de novo atherosclerotic lesions in lower extremities (ELABORATE): study protocol for a real-world clinical trial. 2022; 22:317. doi: 10.1186/s12872-022-02751-1

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35842583/
