PMID: 35855349
Title: Cerebral protection during retrograde brachiocephalic artery stenting using a single filter and increased subclavian steal phenomenon: illustrative case.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Cerebral protection during brachiocephalic artery (BCA) stenting is important. However, the maneuver is sometimes challenging because both the internal carotid artery (ICA) and vertebral artery (VA) should be protected. Herein, the authors present an alternative cerebral protection technique involving filter protection for the ICA and hemodynamic protection for the VA during retrograde BCA stenting.
OBSERVATIONS: A 64-year-old man with a thoracic aortic aneurysm presented with cold sensation and numbness in his right arm due to BCA stenosis. Endovascular stenting under cerebral protection was planned. Cerebral protection was attempted through the brachial access. Despite the successful placement of the filter in the ICA, selective catheterization of the VA failed. Furthermore, repeated transfemoral catheterization of the BCA was unsuccessful. Concerning a thoracic aortic aneurysm injury, the authors performed retrograde BCA stenting using a transbrachial approach. Hemodynamic protection of the VA was provided by increasing the subclavian steal phenomenon that resulted in successful recanalization of the BCA.
LESSONS: Retrograde BCA stenting performed while protecting the ICA with a filter and the right VA by increasing the subclavian steal phenomenon was successful. This simple technique is feasible, especially in patients with steno-occlusive lesions of the BCA concurrent with the dominant vertebra/vertebral collateral pathway.

Citation: Yanagihara W, et al. Cerebral protection during retrograde brachiocephalic artery stenting using a single filter and increased subclavian steal phenomenon: illustrative case. Cerebral protection during retrograde brachiocephalic artery stenting using a single filter and increased subclavian steal phenomenon: illustrative case. 2022; 4:CASE22194. doi: 10.3171/CASE22194

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35855349/
