PMID: 35850923
Title: Doppler ultrasound for post-angioplasty follow-up in pediatric segmental branch renal artery stenosis: A case report.

Abstract: INTRODUCTION: Segmental branch renal artery stenosis is an important cause of renovascular hypertension in the pediatric population that is often managed with angioplasty and may require imaging multiple times pre- and post-procedure. Gold standard imaging is angiography, which exposes children to radiation and intravenous contrast. There is not a clear guideline for imaging during follow-up, but patients are monitored for symptom recurrence, which could then trigger repeat imaging. The following case highlights a method of follow-up that has not been broadly studied that may offer benefits over clinical monitoring alone, and how interprofessional cooperation could offer effective surveillance and reassurance for families through a cost-effective method that minimizes potential for harm.
CASE AND OUTCOMES: This report describes the clinical course of a child with hypertension secondary to segmental branch renal artery stenosis who was treated with angioplasty and who received follow-up imaging with renal Doppler ultrasound. This method allows the care team to ensure stability of the caliber of the repaired vessel and non-recurrence of stenosis at follow-ups through monitoring for intra-arterial velocity and waveform changes.
DISCUSSION: Close follow-up of children with renal artery stenosis is vital following intervention due to high risk of recurrence. Clinical follow-up alone could be sufficient for some patients, however many still require CTA, sometimes even more than once, when symptoms worsen or there is evidence of end-organ damage. During follow-up, collaboration with skilled sonographers to monitor post-repair velocities and waveforms using Doppler ultrasound presents several possible advantages. This includes providing reassurance to patient families, minimizing harmful radiation and contrast exposure, and the potential for early detection of recurrence of stenosis. Especially in cooperative, older pediatric patients with a normal BMI who have a main renal artery stenosis or even in those with a segmental branch stenosis identified through CTA such as in this case.
CONCLUSION: This case demonstrates how coordination with sonographers and the use of ultrasound with Doppler could improve the follow-up of pediatric patients with segmental branch renal artery stenosis post-angioplasty to provide further reassurance to families, minimize harm to patients, and ensure post-procedure stability beyond just clinical parameters.

Citation: Osorio Nader M, et al. Doppler ultrasound for post-angioplasty follow-up in pediatric segmental branch renal artery stenosis: A case report. Doppler ultrasound for post-angioplasty follow-up in pediatric segmental branch renal artery stenosis: A case report. 2022; 53:518-522. doi: 10.1016/j.jmir.2022.06.010

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35850923/
