PMID: 35855150
Title: A case of symptomatic carotid artery occlusion after aortic arch replacement treated with carotid-carotid crossover bypass.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Symptomatic common carotid artery (CCA) occlusion is rare and its treatment remains unestablished. Although cases of subclavian-to-carotid bypass have been reported, very few cases of carotid-tocarotid crossover bypass have been reported, despite its advantages. We report a case of Riles type 1A symptomatic CCA occlusion after aortic arch replacement that was treated with carotid-to-carotid crossover bypass with favorable outcomes.
CASE DESCRIPTION: A 65-year-old woman with a history of hypertension, hyperlipidemia, diabetes, and total arch replacement for thoracic aortic aneurysm was admitted to our hospital with a complaint of the right hemiparesis and motor aphasia. Head magnetic resonance imaging revealed a fresh infarction in the left cerebral hemisphere. Cervical computed tomography (CT) angiography revealed left CCA occlusion. Thoracic CT angiography showed severe stenosis of the left subclavian artery. SPECT showed a general decrease in blood flow in the left cerebral hemisphere. We performed a carotid-to-carotid crossover bypass with a synthetic graft that was passed through the subcutaneous tunnel. First, the right carotid artery-synthetic graft end-to-side anastomosis was performed. Subsequently, we performed synthetic graft-left CCA end-to-side anastomosis. The postoperative course was uneventful. Cervical computed tomography angiography showed perfect patency of the crossover bypass. The patient recovered almost completely and was independently performing daily activities.
CONCLUSION: Carotid-to-carotid crossover bypass is a durable treatment for symptomatic CCA occlusion. Further studies are needed to compare its outcomes with those of other methods and to confirm our findings with larger sample size.

Citation: Sakamoto Y, et al. A case of symptomatic carotid artery occlusion after aortic arch replacement treated with carotid-carotid crossover bypass. A case of symptomatic carotid artery occlusion after aortic arch replacement treated with carotid-carotid crossover bypass. 2022; 13:273. doi: 10.25259/SNI_415_2022

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35855150/
