PMID: 35856131
Title: Development of Molecular Magnetic Resonance Imaging Tools for Longitudinal Tracking of Carotid Atherosclerotic Disease Using Fast Imaging with Steady-State Precession.

Abstract: Identification of patients with high-risk asymptomatic carotid plaques remains a challenging but essential step in stroke prevention. Current selection criteria for intervention in carotid disease are still determined by symptomatology and degree of luminal stenosis. This strategy has been less effective in identifying the high-risk asymptomatic individual patients. Inflammation is the key factor that drives plaque instability causing clinical sequelae. Currently, there is no imaging tool in routine clinical practice to assess the inflammatory status within atherosclerotic plaques. Herein we describe the development of a novel molecular magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) strategy to interrogate plaque inflammation, and hence its vulnerability in vivo, using dual-targeted iron particle-based probes and fast imaging with steady-state precession (FISP) sequence, adding further prognostic information to luminal stenosis alone. A periarterial cuff was used to generate high-risk plaques at specific timepoints and location of the carotid artery in an apolipoprotein-E-deficient mouse model. Using this platform, we demonstrated that in vivo dual-targeted iron particles with enhanced FISP can (i) target and characterise high-risk vulnerable plaques and (ii) quantitatively report and track the inflammatory activity within carotid plaques longitudinally. This molecular imaging tool may permit (i) accurate monitoring of the risk of carotid plaques and (ii) timely identification of high-risk asymptomatic patients for prophylactic carotid intervention, achieving early stroke prevention.

Citation: Park SJ, et al. Development of Molecular Magnetic Resonance Imaging Tools for Longitudinal Tracking of Carotid Atherosclerotic Disease Using Fast Imaging with Steady-State Precession. Development of Molecular Magnetic Resonance Imaging Tools for Longitudinal Tracking of Carotid Atherosclerotic Disease Using Fast Imaging with Steady-State Precession. 2023; 14:357-363. doi: 10.1007/s12975-022-01067-8

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35856131/
