PMID: 35854896
Title: Early Acurate Neo transcatheter heart valve degeneration in a haemodialysis patient successfully managed with Sapien 3 Ultra: a case report.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Aortic valve disease is the most prevalent valvular abnormality in the developed world and carries a high risk of morbidity and mortality. Transcatheter aortic valve replacement (TAVR) is favoured over open-heart surgery in high-risk patient categories and is increasingly used in lower-risk groups. End stage kidney disease (ESKD) is associated with premature calcific degeneration of bioprosthetic heart valves. Redo-TAVR requires meticulous pre-procedural planning to avoid the important risks of sinus sequestration and impaired coronary access. Transcatheter aortic valve replacement with the Acurate Neo transcatheter heart valve (THV) has been clinically available for a short time only and there are limited reports describing redo-TAVR in the Acurate Neo.
CASE SUMMARY: We present a case of early, rapid onset, structural valve degeneration in a Acurate Neo, supra-annular, self-expanding THV in a dialysis patient. The patient presented with chest pain and breathlessness 4 years after TAVR with a Acurate Neo for severe stenosis of a bicuspid aortic valve. Echocardiogram now showed severe stenosis of the THV and computed tomography revealed severe THV leaflet calcification but no pannus or leaflet thrombus. After careful pre-procedural planning a S3 Ultra balloon-expandable valve was selected and positioned relatively high to pin the first THV leaflets in a fully open position without compromising coronary artery flow or coronary access.
DISCUSSION: End stage kidney disease may cause rapid, calcific degeneration of TAVR valves leading to presentation with severe aortic stenosis. Redo-TAVR in the Acurate Neo THV with a Sapien 3 Ultra is feasible with careful pre-procedural planning to mitigate the risks of sinus sequestration and impaired coronary access.

Citation: Savvoulidis P, et al. Early Acurate Neo transcatheter heart valve degeneration in a haemodialysis patient successfully managed with Sapien 3 Ultra: a case report. Early Acurate Neo transcatheter heart valve degeneration in a haemodialysis patient successfully managed with Sapien 3 Ultra: a case report. 2022; 6:ytac279. doi: 10.1093/ehjcr/ytac279

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35854896/
