PMID: 35859059
Title: Voice and Airway Outcomes of Montgomery T-tube Placement in Laryngotracheal Stenosis.

Abstract: OBJECTIVES: To describe voice and airway outcomes and complications experienced by patients with laryngotracheal stenosis following Montgomery T-tube placement.
METHODS: Retrospective chart review of all patients with laryngotracheal stenosis and Montgomery T-tube placement treated at a tertiary referral center from 2012 to 2021.
RESULTS: Eighteen patients met criteria with laryngotracheal stenosis, seven including the level of the glottis and 11 without glottal involvement. Eleven were completely aphonic before T-tube placement and the remainder had severe dysphonia. There was improvement of Voice Handicap Index-10, Reflux Symptom Index, and GRBAS grade following T-tube placement in patients compared to their preoperative values. Improvement of grade was greater in patients without glottal involvement. Complications of chronic indwelling T-tube included granulation in 14 patients (78%), tracheitis in two patients (11%), and mucus plugging in three patients (17%) with one T-tube related mortality. Five patients were eventually decannulated, six returned to tracheostomy tube, and seven retained the T-tube at last follow-up (average: 30 months, range: 4-80 months).
CONCLUSIONS: Montgomery T-tube placement improves voice in patients with severe dysphonia secondary to laryngotracheal stenosis with and without glottal involvement though the degree of improvement is greater in patients without glottal involvement. T-tube can help reestablish long-term laryngotracheal continuity in patients with no other surgical options. The potential benefits in phonation should be weighed against the possibility of rare but serious adverse events.

Citation: Miles ER, et al. Voice and Airway Outcomes of Montgomery T-tube Placement in Laryngotracheal Stenosis. Voice and Airway Outcomes of Montgomery T-tube Placement in Laryngotracheal Stenosis. 2022; (unknown volume):(unknown pages). doi: 10.1016/j.jvoice.2022.06.009

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35859059/
