PMID: 35868728
Title: Diagnosis and Surgical Management of Neonatal Hydrocephalus.

Abstract: Neonatal hydrocephalus represents an important pathological condition with significant impact on medical care and neurocognitive development. This condition requires early recognition, appropriate medical and surgical management, and long-term surveillance by clinicians and pediatric neurosurgeons. Common etiologies of neonatal and infant hydrocephalus include intraventricular hemorrhage related to prematurity with subsequent post-hemorrhagic hydrocephalus, myelomeningocele, and obstructive hydrocephalus due to aqueductal stenosis. Clinical markers of elevated intracranial pressure include rapid increases in head circumference across percentiles, elevation and firmness of the anterior fontanelle, splitting or splaying of cranial sutures, upgaze palsy, lethargy, frequent emesis, or episodic bradycardia (unrelated to other comorbidities). Complementing these clinical markers, imaging modalities used for the diagnosis of neonatal hydrocephalus include head ultrasonography, brain magnetic resonance imaging, and head computed tomography in urgent or emergent situations. Following diagnosis, temporizing measures may be employed prior to definitive treatment and include ventricular access device or ventriculo-subgaleal shunt insertion. Definitive surgical management involves permanent cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) diversion via CSF shunt insertion, or endoscopic third ventriculostomy with or without choroid plexus cauterization. Surgical decision-making and approaches vary based on patient age, hydrocephalus etiology, neuroanatomy, imaging findings, and medical comorbidities. Indications, surgical techniques, and clinical outcomes of these procedures continue to evolve and elicit significant attention in the research environment. In this review we describe the epidemiology, pathophysiology, clinical markers, imaging findings, early management, definitive surgical management, and clinical outcomes of pediatric patients with neonatal hydrocephalus.

Citation: Pindrik J, et al. Diagnosis and Surgical Management of Neonatal Hydrocephalus. Diagnosis and Surgical Management of Neonatal Hydrocephalus. 2022; 42:100969. doi: 10.1016/j.spen.2022.100969

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35868728/
