PMID: 35866823
Title: Successful implantation of a novel polymer-free everolimus-eluting stent using nitrogen-doped titanium dioxide film with good patency on follow-up angiography: A case report.

Abstract: RATIONALE: Despite technological advances in interventional cardiology during the last decades, many concerns remain regarding the narrowing and occlusion of the in-stent area. Particularly, polymer materials pose several problems, including chronic arterial inflammation, impaired arterial healing, and stent thrombosis. To avoid these complications, we invented the TIGEREVOLUTION stent with a cobalt-chromium alloy-based stent platform deposited with N-TiO2 film, which has demonstrated good biocompatibility. As this stent is not coated with polymer, it is expected to have decreased risk of stent thrombosis.
PATIENT CONCERNS: A 62-year-old Korean man visited our department because of angina. We commenced coronary angiography (CAG).
DIAGNOSIS: CAG revealed critical stenosis in the mid-portion of the right coronary artery, with a minimum lumen area of 1.08mm2 on optical coherence tomography (OCT).
INTERVENTION: Percutaneous coronary intervention was performed with implantation of a novel 3.5 × 26-mm polymer-free everolimus-eluting stent using nitrogen-doped titanium dioxide film (TIGEREVOLUTION® stent). Post-percutaneous coronary intervention OCT showed good stent expansion and apposition, and the patient was discharged successfully and uneventfully.
OUTCOMES: Eight months later, follow-up coronary angiography demonstrated good stent patency with no definitive evidence of in-stent restenosis, with thin stent strut coverage demonstrated on OCT.
LESSONS: We report the first case of TIGEREVOLUTION stent implantation with follow-up OCT at 8 months.

Citation: Oh S, et al. Successful implantation of a novel polymer-free everolimus-eluting stent using nitrogen-doped titanium dioxide film with good patency on follow-up angiography: A case report. Successful implantation of a novel polymer-free everolimus-eluting stent using nitrogen-doped titanium dioxide film with good patency on follow-up angiography: A case report. 2022; 101:e29666. doi: 10.1097/MD.0000000000029666

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35866823/
