PMID: 35868129
Title: Laparoscopic jejunostomy for enteral nutrition in gastric cancer patients: A report of two cases: A case report.

Abstract: INTRODUCTION AND IMPORTANCE: Jejunostomy is often indicated for patients with oral intake difficulties and unresectable gastric cancer, patients at risk of postoperative complications, and patients who require nutritional management after gastrectomy. In this report, we discuss the cases with laparoscopic jejunostomy in our department.
CASE PRESENTATION: Case 1: An upper gastrointestinal endoscopy performed for close examination in a 60-year-old male revealed upper gastric cancer with extensive invasion and lower esophageal stenosis. He had difficulty with esophageal transit and, consequently, underwent a laparoscopic jejunostomy and staging laparoscopy. Case 2: Upper gastrointestinal endoscopy in a 62-year-old male revealed type 3 tumor in the gastric antrum. He had a history of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease requiring home oxygen therapy, pulmonary hypertension, and heart failure, and was at a high perioperative risk. Consequently, both laparoscopic distal gastrectomy and laparoscopic jejunostomy were performed.
CLINICAL DISCUSSION: Enteral nutrition has many advantages over venous nutrition, including maintenance of immunity and intestinal mucosa, avoidance of bacterial translocation, and decreased risk of catheter infection. Although there are a few reports of cases with laparoscopic jejunostomy, it is expected that the technique will become more widespread and safe in the future.
CONCLUSION: Laparoscopic jejunostomy is considered a useful, minimally invasive, and safe technique.

Citation: Tsuchiya H, et al. Laparoscopic jejunostomy for enteral nutrition in gastric cancer patients: A report of two cases: A case report. Laparoscopic jejunostomy for enteral nutrition in gastric cancer patients: A report of two cases: A case report. 2022; 97:107388. doi: 10.1016/j.ijscr.2022.107388

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35868129/
