PMID: 35864046
Title: Frequency of lichen sclerosus in children presenting with phimosis: A systematic histological study.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: The incidence of preputial lichen sclerosus (PLS) among children presenting with phimosis varies from 10 to 95%, depending on the age, the protocol for the treatment of pediatric phimosis, the method of diagnosis (clinical versus histological), and case mix (congenital versus acquired phimosis).
OBJECTIVE: PLS may not be clinically obvious. Our aim is to show that a systematic histological examination of the prepuce may diagnose PLS in clinically unsuspected cases.
METHODS: Prospective observational study of the histology of all prepuces resected from boys undergoing circumcision for phimosis but not clinically suspected to have PLS.
RESULTS: PLS was diagnosed histologically in 22 boys (32%). Boys with PLS were significantly older (mean 8.4 versus 4.7 years old). Diagnosis of PLS was not related to the degree of phimosis (summary figure). In three patients (grade 4 phimosis) glans discoloration was observed during surgery, and all had PLS. Follow up for boys found to have PLS ranged from 1 to 10 years. One patient developed recurrent phimosis, attributed to inappropriate conservative resection, and required further surgery. There were no cases of meatal stenosis.
DISCUSSION: Subtle cases of PLS may be difficult to detect clinically. Children are frequently asymptomatic, except for being unable to retract the prepuce. Physical examination has a low negative predictive value for the diagnosis of PLS. Complete removal of the prepuce with permanent glans exposure is regarded as essential to cure PLS and to avoid recurrent phimosis, but our patients were treated with partial circumcisions for cultural reasons. Only one needed reoperation for recurrent phimosis.
CONCLUSION: Histological PLS was present in approximately 1/3 of boys with phimosis, frequently without typical manifestations. Those patients may be cured with partial circumcisions.

Citation: Aziz Filho AM, et al. Frequency of lichen sclerosus in children presenting with phimosis: A systematic histological study. Frequency of lichen sclerosus in children presenting with phimosis: A systematic histological study. 2022; 18:529.e1-529.e6. doi: 10.1016/j.jpurol.2022.06.030

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35864046/
