PMID: 35860807
Title: Cerebral infarction following bee stings: Case report and literature review.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: To date, only 25 cases of cerebral infarction following a bee or wasp sting have been reported. Due to its rarity, undefined pathogenesis, and unique clinical features, we report a case of a 62-year-old man with progressive cerebral infarction following bee stings, possibly related to vasospasm. Furthermore, we review relevant literature on stroke following bee or wasp stings.
CASE PRESENTATION: A 62-year-old retired male presented with progressive ischemic stroke after bee stings to the ear and face. Initial magnetic resonance imaging of the brain showed small punctate infarcts in the left medulla oblongata. Head and neck computed tomography angiography showed significant stenosis in the basilar artery and occlusion in the left V4 vertebral artery. The patient received intravenous alteplase (0.9 mg/kg) without symptomatic improvement. Digital subtraction angiography later demonstrated additional near occlusion in the left posterior cerebral artery (PCA). Thrombectomy was considered initially but was aborted due to hemodynamic instability. Repeated CT brain after 24 h showed acute infarcts in the left parieto-occipital region and left thalamus. The near occluded PCA was found to be patent again on magnetic resonance angiography (MRA) 25 days later. This reversibility suggests that vasospasm may have been the underlying mechanism. Unfortunately, the patient had persistent significant neurological deficits after rehabilitation one year later.
CONCLUSION: Cerebral infarction following bee stings is rare. There are several proposed pathophysiological mechanisms. While the natural course of this phenomenon is not well characterized, early diagnosis and treatment are essential. Furthermore, it is important to establish standardized care procedures for this unique entity.

Citation: Yang S, et al. Cerebral infarction following bee stings: Case report and literature review. Cerebral infarction following bee stings: Case report and literature review. 2022; 13:163-171. doi: 10.1515/tnsci-2022-0225

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35860807/
