PMID: 35861398
Title: Laparoscopic vertical sleeve gastrectomy in felines: A cadaveric feasibility study and experimental case series in two cats.

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the feasibility of laparoscopic vertical sleeve gastrectomy (LVSG) in feline cadavers using endoscopic stapling equipment and report clinical outcomes in two live feline subjects.
STUDY DESIGN: Cadaveric study and experimental case series.
ANIMALS: Ten feline cadavers; two feline subjects.
METHODS: LVSG technique was refined on feline cadavers and included retraction of the liver, dissection of the stomach, assessment of proper location for gastrectomy via stapling, and leak testing. Appropriateness of gastrectomy, gastrectomy %, surgical times and complications were recorded. The procedure was performed on two live feline subjects, and they were followed for 4 months to report surgical complications.
RESULTS: LVSG was completed in 9/10 cadavers and both live patients. Stenosis at the incisura was recorded in 2/9 cadavers. No obvious leaks were seen in the 8 cadavers that were tested or either live patient. The mean surgical time for all cadaver procedures and live patients was 110.4 and 115 minutes, respectively. Mean weight of resected cadaver stomach was 10 g and the mean % of the total stomach weight resected was 27.6%. No intra- or postoperative surgical complications occurred in the live subjects.
CONCLUSION: LVSG technique appears feasible and safe for use in live patients.
CLINICAL RELEVANCE: This LVSG technique may be safely used for partial gastric resection in cats. Further studies are necessary to determine if it is effective at reversing the effects of obesity and diabetes in this population.

Citation: Buote NJ, et al. Laparoscopic vertical sleeve gastrectomy in felines: A cadaveric feasibility study and experimental case series in two cats. Laparoscopic vertical sleeve gastrectomy in felines: A cadaveric feasibility study and experimental case series in two cats. 2023; 52:878-887. doi: 10.1111/vsu.13862

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35861398/
