PMID: 35871110
Title: Association of Arterial Spin Labeling Parameters With Cognitive Decline, Vascular Events, and Mortality in a Memory-Clinic Sample.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Cognitive decline in older adults has been attributed to reduced cerebral blood flow (CBF). Recently, the spatial coefficient of variation (sCoV) of ASL has been proposed as a proxy marker of cerebrovascular insufficiency. We investigated the association between baseline ASL parameters with cognitive decline, incident cerebrovascular disease, and risk of vascular events and mortality.
DESIGN, SETTING, AND PARTICIPANTS: About 368 memory-clinic patients underwent three-annual neuropsychological assessments and brain MRI scans at baseline and follow-up. MRIs were graded for white matter hyperintensities (WMH), lacunes, cerebral microbleeds (CMBs), cortical infarcts, and intracranial stenosis. Baseline gray (GM) and white matter (WM) CBF and GM-sCoV were obtained with ExploreASL from 2D-EPI pseudo-continuous ASL images. Cognitive assessment was done using a validated neuropsychological battery. Data on incident vascular events (heart disease, stroke, transient ischemic attack) and mortality were obtained.
RESULTS: Higher baseline GM-sCoV was associated with decline in the memory domain over 3 years of follow-up. Furthermore, higher GM-sCoV was associated with a decline in the memory domain only in participants without dementia. Higher baseline GM-sCoV was associated with progression of WMH and incident CMBs. During a mean follow-up of 3 years, 29 (7.8%) participants developed vascular events and 18 (4.8%) died. Participants with higher baseline mean GM-sCoV were at increased risk of vascular events.
CONCLUSIONS: Higher baseline GM-sCoV of ASL was associated with a decline in memory and risk of cerebrovascular disease and vascular events, suggesting that cerebrovascular insufficiency may contribute to accelerated cognitive decline and worse clinical outcomes in memory clinic participants.

Citation: Gyanwali B, et al. Association of Arterial Spin Labeling Parameters With Cognitive Decline, Vascular Events, and Mortality in a Memory-Clinic Sample. Association of Arterial Spin Labeling Parameters With Cognitive Decline, Vascular Events, and Mortality in a Memory-Clinic Sample. 2022; 30:1298-1309. doi: 10.1016/j.jagp.2022.06.007

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35871110/
