PMID: 35875280
Title: A Comparative Study on the Outcomes of Hypospadias Surgery Following Early Versus Late Bladder Catheter Removal.

Abstract: Background Hypospadias is the most common penile malformation affecting up to one in 300 live male births. In general, a urinary diversion (urethral stent or bladder catheter) is maintained in situ for two to seven days or more after hypospadias repair. Because of the low level of evidence, the latest guidelines of the European Association of Urology and the European Society of Paediatric Urology provide no recommendations concerning the timing of catheter removal after hypospadias surgery. In this study, we aimed to compare the outcomes of hypospadias surgery (tubularized incised plate urethroplasty, TIPU) following early versus late bladder catheter removal. Methodology In total, 62 patients were included in this study. All patients underwent TIPU by the same team of surgeons. All patients were divided into the following two groups: group A (32 patients) had their catheter removed on or before the fifth postoperative day, and group B (30 patients) had their catheter removed after the fifth postoperative day. All patients were scheduled for an outpatient assessment after two weeks, at one month, after three months, and at six months if necessary. Results The mean age of patients in group A was five years (three to seven years) and in group B was five years (four to 7.25 years) with a p-value of 0.378. Among the early complications of the surgery, the occurrence of wound infections, urinary tract infections, and urinary retention was comparable among the two groups. The rate of bladder spasms (0% versus 13.3%, p = 0.033) was significantly higher in group B than in group A. The rate of urinary retention (12.5% versus 0%, p = 0.045) was significantly higher in group A than in group B. Superficial wound infection occurred in two out of 32 patients in group A (6.3%) and two out of 30 patients in group B (6.7%) (p = 0.94). Both groups had similar incidences of wound complications. Urinary tract infections also had a similar incidence in both early and late catheter removal groups, i.e., one out of 32 patients in group A (3.1%) and three out of 30 patients (10%) in group B (p = 0.271). Urinary extravasation following hypospadias repair occurred in two out of 32 patients (6.3%). No extravasation was noted in the late catheter removal group. However, the difference was not clinically significant (p = 0.164). Two patients in both groups developed urethrocutaneous fistula (6.3% in group A versus 6.7% in group B). However, the difference was not clinically significant. Meatal stenosis developed in three out of 32 patients in group A and two out of 30 patients in group B (9.4% versus 6.7%; p = 0.696). One patient in the early catheter removal group developed urethral stricture as a late complication. None of the patients in the late catheter removal group developed this complication. Conclusions The occurrence of long-term complications of TIP hypospadias repair was not affected by the early removal of the bladder catheter. The shortcomings of our study were its descriptive nature and the small sample size. Further prospective randomized controlled trials are needed to ascertain the safety of early catheter removal and improvement in quality of life in the immediate postoperative period.

Citation: Kumar A and Ram Dhayal I. A Comparative Study on the Outcomes of Hypospadias Surgery Following Early Versus Late Bladder Catheter Removal. A Comparative Study on the Outcomes of Hypospadias Surgery Following Early Versus Late Bladder Catheter Removal. 2022; 14:e26104. doi: 10.7759/cureus.26104

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35875280/
