PMID: 35875389
Title: Development of an approach to extracting coronary arteries and detecting stenosis in invasive coronary angiograms.

Abstract: Purpose: In stable coronary artery disease (CAD), reduction in mortality and/or myocardial infarction with revascularization over medical therapy has not been reliably achieved. Coronary arteries are usually extracted to perform stenosis detection. As such, developing accurate segmentation of vascular structures and quantification of coronary arterial stenosis in invasive coronary angiograms (ICA) is necessary. Approach: A multi-input and multiscale (MIMS) U-Net with a two-stage recurrent training strategy was proposed for the automatic vessel segmentation. The proposed model generated a refined prediction map with the following two training stages: (i) stage I coarsely segmented the major coronary arteries from preprocessed single-channel ICAs and generated the probability map of arteries; and (ii) during the stage II, a three-channel image consisting of the original preprocessed image, a generated probability map, and an edge-enhanced image generated from the preprocessed image was fed to the proposed MIMS U-Net to produce the final segmentation result. After segmentation, an arterial stenosis detection algorithm was developed to extract vascular centerlines and calculate arterial diameters to evaluate stenotic level. Results: Experimental results demonstrated that the proposed method achieved an average Dice similarity coefficient of 0.8329, an average sensitivity of 0.8281, and an average specificity of 0.9979 in our dataset with 294 ICAs obtained from 73 patients. Moreover, our stenosis detection algorithm achieved a true positive rate of 0.6668 and a positive predictive value of 0.7043. Conclusions: Our proposed approach has great promise for clinical use and could help physicians improve diagnosis and therapeutic decisions for CAD.

Citation: Zhao C, et al. Development of an approach to extracting coronary arteries and detecting stenosis in invasive coronary angiograms. Development of an approach to extracting coronary arteries and detecting stenosis in invasive coronary angiograms. 2022; 9:044002. doi: 10.1117/1.JMI.9.4.044002

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35875389/
