PMID: 35875621
Title: The concept of recovery kinetics: an observational study of continuous post-operative monitoring in spine surgery.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: The spine surgeon's understanding of an individual patient's burden of disease and functional disability in daily life is shaped by patient-reported outcome measures (PROMs). Although PROMs are useful in understanding the patient's perception of their disease, the use of PROMs constitutes a "snapshot" approach of single timepoint data capture, omitting day-to-day fluctuations in functional status. We introduce the concept of kinetics when considering continuous and objective postoperative patient monitoring with wearable sensors.
METHODS: A prospective single-centre series was performed using patients either undergoing lumbar decompression for lumbar spinal stenosis (LSS) (n=12), or posterior lumbar fusion for degenerative spondylolisthesis (n=12). The Oswestry Disability Index (PROM) was conducted preoperatively and 12-weeks postoperatively. During this timeframe, continuous measurements of step count and distance travelled were made using a wrist-based wearable accelerometer.
RESULTS: Over the 12-week study period, mean daily step count for all participants improved from 4,700 to 7,700 steps per day (P=0.013), following an initial dip in total steps taken. The mean daily distance travelled improved from 3,300 to 5,300 meters per day (P=0.003). Decompression group recovered at a faster rate than the fusion group.
CONCLUSIONS: Although overall improvement was similar between the decompression and fusion groups, the recovery kinetics varied. The recovery kinetics approach of continuous postoperative monitoring provides additional insight to postoperative patient progress.

Citation: Maharaj M, et al. The concept of recovery kinetics: an observational study of continuous post-operative monitoring in spine surgery. The concept of recovery kinetics: an observational study of continuous post-operative monitoring in spine surgery. 2022; 8:196-203. doi: 10.21037/jss-22-5

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35875621/
