PMID: 35887557
Title: Head and Neck Cancer Types and Risks of Cervical-Cranial Vascular Complications within 5 Years after Radiation Therapy.

Abstract: Background and purpose: to investigate the frequency of cervical−cranial vascular complications soon after radiation therapy (RT) and identify differences among patients with various types of head and neck cancer (HNC). Methods: We enrolled 496 patients with HNC who had received their final RT dose in our hospital. These patients underwent carotid duplex ultrasound (CDU) for monitoring significant carotid artery stenosis (CAS). Brain imaging were reviewed to detect vertebral, intracranial artery stenosis, or preexisted CAS before RT. Primary outcome was significant CAS at the internal or common carotid artery within first 5 years after RT. We categorized the patients into nasopharyngeal carcinoma (NPC) and non-NPC groups and compared the cumulative occurrence of significant CAS between the groups using Kaplan−Meier and Cox-regression analyses. Results: Compared to the NPC group, the non-NPC group had a higher frequency of significant CAS (12.7% vs. 2.0%) and were more commonly associated with significant CAS after adjusting the covariates (Adjusted hazard ratio: 0.17, 95% confident interval: 0.05−0.57) during the follow-up period. All the non-NPC subtypes (oral cancer/oropharyngeal, hypopharyngeal, and laryngeal cancers) were associated with higher risks of significant CAS than the NPC group (p < 0.001 respectively). Conclusion: Significant CAS was more frequently noted within 5 years of RT among the patients with non-NPC HNC than among the patients with NPC. Scheduled carotid artery surveillance and vascular risk monitoring should be commenced earlier for patients with non-NPC HNC. By contrast, vascular surveillance could be deferred to 5 years after RT completion in NPC patients.

Citation: Liu CH, et al. Head and Neck Cancer Types and Risks of Cervical-Cranial Vascular Complications within 5 Years after Radiation Therapy. Head and Neck Cancer Types and Risks of Cervical-Cranial Vascular Complications within 5 Years after Radiation Therapy. 2022; 12:(unknown pages). doi: 10.3390/jpm12071060

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35887557/
