PMID: 35885556
Title: Impact of Diffuse Idiopathic Skeletal Hyperostosis on Clinico-Radiological Profiles and Prognosis for Thoracic Ossification of Ligamentum Flavum-Myelopathy: A Propensity-Matched Monocentric Analysis.

Abstract: Background: Diffuse idiopathic skeletal hyperostosis (DISH) has been evaluated as a potential risk factor of poor surgical outcomes for lumbar spinal stenosis, whereas the influence of DISH on neuroimaging characteristics and postoperative prognosis of patients with thoracic myelopathy has not been established. Therefore, this study aimed to shed light on this issue. Methods: A monocentric study enrolled 167 eligible patients with thoracic ossification of ligamentum flavum (TOLF), who were followed up for at least 2 years. Clinico-radiological parameters and surgical outcomes were compared between the DISH+ and DISH− groups before and after propensity matching. Subgroup analysis was conducted to compare the functional outcomes between mild DISH (M-DISH) and moderately severe DISH (MS-DISH) groups. Results: Fifty-eight patients were diagnosed as DISH, and its prevalence was 34.7%. Patients with DISH presented with older age, more males, taller stature, heavier weight, more commonly diffuse-type TOLF (p < 0.05). The DISH group showed significantly worse recovery rate (RR) at the final follow-up before and after propensity matching (p < 0.01), and slightly lower preoperative VAS, higher postoperative VAS and lower VAS reduction, despite not reaching the significant differences. Subgroup analysis demonstrated that the M-DISH group was associated with the lower mJOA score (p = 0.01) and RR at the final follow-up (p = 0.001), and tended to present higher preoperative VAS than the MS-DISH group. Conclusions: DISH has a significant predisposition to the elderly males with diffuse-type TOLF. Although the presence of M-DISH might bring about a suboptimal surgical outcome, both DISH and non-DISH patients experienced good neurological function improvements and pain relief through thoracic posterior decompression.

Citation: Zhang B, et al. Impact of Diffuse Idiopathic Skeletal Hyperostosis on Clinico-Radiological Profiles and Prognosis for Thoracic Ossification of Ligamentum Flavum-Myelopathy: A Propensity-Matched Monocentric Analysis. Impact of Diffuse Idiopathic Skeletal Hyperostosis on Clinico-Radiological Profiles and Prognosis for Thoracic Ossification of Ligamentum Flavum-Myelopathy: A Propensity-Matched Monocentric Analysis. 2022; 12:(unknown pages). doi: 10.3390/diagnostics12071652

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35885556/
