PMID: 35894533
Title: Analysis of Revision Surgery Following Surgical Reconstruction of the Sigmoid Sinus Wall in Patients with Pulsatile Tinnitus.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: To explore potential causes leading to the failure of the surgical reconstruction of sigmoid sinus wall in patients with pulsatile tinnitus.
METHODS: This study retrospectively analyzed pulsatile tinnitus patients with sigmoid sinus wall dehiscence and/or sigmoid sinus diverticulum, who underwent revision surgeries following the surgical reconstruction of the sigmoid sinus wall.
RESULTS: A total of 7 pulsatile tinnitus patients were included. After the first surgery, 5 of 7 patients showed varying degrees of remission in pulsatile tinnitus, but pulsatile tinnitus gradually recurred. The other 2 patients experienced no change in pulsatile tinnitus. Images after the first surgeries revealed that the surgical failure of Patients 1-5 was caused by incompleted elimination of sigmoid sinus wall dehiscence and sigmoid sinus diverticulum. Following revision surgeries, they all acquired great or complete resolution of pulsatile tinnitus. In Patient 6, an abnormal diploic vein entering the sigmoid sinus was overlooked during the first surgery for repairing sigmoid sinus wall dehiscence. As soon as the diploic vein was blocked during the revision surgery, the patient's pulsatile tinnitus was alleviated significantly. Patient 7 had a recurrence of pulsatile tinnitus after transient improvement following the first surgery, and still experienced no change in pulsatile tinnitus after the revision surgery. However, after venous sinus stenting in the stenosis of transverse-sigmoid sinus junction, she got complete resolution of pulsatile tinnitus. It sug- gested that the unresolved stenosis of the venous sinus was the cause of the surgical failure.
CONCLUSIONS: Both sigmoid sinus diverticulum and sigmoid sinus wall dehiscence are recommended to be resolved during surgery. Abnormal diploic veins and venous sinus stenosis are potential causes of pulsatile tinnitus.

Citation: Li D, et al. Analysis of Revision Surgery Following Surgical Reconstruction of the Sigmoid Sinus Wall in Patients with Pulsatile Tinnitus. Analysis of Revision Surgery Following Surgical Reconstruction of the Sigmoid Sinus Wall in Patients with Pulsatile Tinnitus. 2022; 18:358-364. doi: 10.5152/iao.2022.21471

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35894533/
