PMID: 35892407
Title: Endovascular Treatment of ICAS Patients: Targeting Reperfusion Rather than Residual Stenosis.

Abstract: BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: Previous studies showed that acute reocclusion after endovascular therapy is related to residual stenosis. However, we observed that reperfusion status but not residual stenosis severity is related to acute reocclusion. This study aimed to assess which factor mention above is more likely to be associated with artery reocclusion after endovascular treatment.
METHODS: This study included 86 acute ischemic stroke patients who had middle cerebral artery (MCA) atherosclerotic occlusions and received endovascular treatment within 24 h of a stroke. The primary outcomes included intraprocedural reocclusion assessed during endovascular treatment and delayed reocclusion assessed through follow-up angiography.
RESULTS: Of the 86 patients, the intraprocedural reocclusion rate was 7.0% (6/86) and the delayed reocclusion rate was 2.3% (2/86). Regarding intraprocedural occlusion, for patients with severe residual stenosis, patients with successful thrombectomy reperfusion showed a significantly lower rate than unsuccessful thrombectomy reperfusion (0/30 vs. 6/31, p = 0.003); on the other hand, for patients with successful thrombectomy reperfusion, patients with severe residual stenosis showed no difference from those with mild to moderate residual stenosis in terms of intraprocedural occlusion (0/30 vs. 0/25, p = 1.00). In addition, after endovascular treatment, all patients achieved successful reperfusion. There was no significant difference in the delayed reocclusion rate between patients with severe residual stenosis and those with mild to moderate residual stenosis (2/25 vs. 0/61, p = 0.085).
CONCLUSION: Reperfusion status rather than residual stenosis severity is associated with artery reocclusion after endovascular treatment. Once successful reperfusion was achieved, the reocclusion occurrence was fairly low in MCA atherosclerosis stroke patients, even with severe residual stenosis.

Citation: Yi T, et al. Endovascular Treatment of ICAS Patients: Targeting Reperfusion Rather than Residual Stenosis. Endovascular Treatment of ICAS Patients: Targeting Reperfusion Rather than Residual Stenosis. 2022; 12:(unknown pages). doi: 10.3390/brainsci12080966

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35892407/
