PMID: 35904668
Title: Mechanisms of Coronary Ischemia in Women.

Abstract: PURPOSE OF REVIEW: Obstructive coronary artery disease is a major cause of ischemia in both men and women; however, women are more likely to present with ischemia in the setting of no obstructive coronary arteries (INOCA) and myocardial infarction with no obstructive coronary arteries (MINOCA), conditions that are associated with adverse cardiovascular prognosis despite absence of coronary stenosis. In this review, we focus on mechanisms of coronary ischemia that should be considered in the differential diagnosis when routine anatomic clinical investigation leads to the finding of non-obstructive coronary artery disease on coronary angiography in the setting of acute myocardial infarction.
RECENT FINDINGS: There are multiple mechanisms that contribute to MINOCA, including atherosclerotic plaque disruption, coronary artery spasm, coronary microvascular dysfunction (CMD), coronary embolism and/or thrombosis, and spontaneous coronary artery dissection. Non-coronary causes such as myocarditis or supply-demand mismatch should also be considered on the differential when there is an unexplained troponin elevation. Use of advanced imaging and diagnostic techniques to determine the underlying etiology of MINOCA is feasible and helpful, as this has the potential to guide management and secondary prevention. Failure to identify the underlying cause(s) may result in inappropriate treatment and inaccurate counseling to patients. MINOCA predominates in young women and is associated with a guarded prognosis. The diagnosis of MINOCA should prompt further investigation to determine the underlying cause of troponin elevation. Patients with INOCA and MINOCA are heterogeneous, and response to treatments can be variable. Large randomized controlled trials to determine longer-term optimal medical therapy for management of these conditions are under investigation.

Citation: Huang J, et al. Mechanisms of Coronary Ischemia in Women. Mechanisms of Coronary Ischemia in Women. 2022; 24:1273-1285. doi: 10.1007/s11886-022-01745-x

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35904668/
