PMID: 35907483
Title: Prophylactic Parastomal Mesh Sublay at the Time of Ileal Conduit: Surgical Technique.

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: To demonstrate the surgical technique for prophylactic mesh placement in the sublay position during ileal conduit creation because literature suggests that prophylactic mesh placement at the time of cystectomy may reduce the risk of parastomal hernias with low risk of mesh-related complications. Parastomal hernias are one of the most common complications following ileal conduit construction and occur in 17-65% of patients undergoing cystectomy with urinary diversion. Review of our institutions data demonstrated a high incidence of hernias associated with ileal conduits, which have substantial burden to patients, surgeons, and the healthcare system.
METHODS: This is a retrospective chart review of data from a single surgeon who performed cystectomy with ileal conduit for 12 patients with bladder cancer between January, 2021-March, 2022 at our institution. These dates were chosen based on the timing of availability of literature suggesting a benefit from prophylactic mesh placement. Preliminary data was analyzed determine the incidence of parastomal hernia and mesh-related complications.
RESULTS: A total of 12 patients underwent cystectomy with ileal conduit between January, 2021-March, 2022 at our institution. Eleven patients (92%) had prophylactic mesh placed during their procedure. Median follow up was 5.4 months (0.8-8 months). Two patients (17%) developed a parastomal hernia which was detected clinically and/or radiographically. The hernias occurred in patients with mesh and within 6 months of cystectomy. One patient had stomal stenosis eventually requiring surgical revision. There were no mesh infections or mesh removals.
CONCLUSION: Parastomal hernias are a common and morbid complication of ileal conduit urinary diversion. Our early experience demonstrates that the procedure is straightforward, adds little time to the surgical procedure, and is associated with a low complication rate. Our experience is too small and follow up too short to confirm that the results of the randomized trial can be matched at our center.

Citation: Atwater BL, et al. Prophylactic Parastomal Mesh Sublay at the Time of Ileal Conduit: Surgical Technique. Prophylactic Parastomal Mesh Sublay at the Time of Ileal Conduit: Surgical Technique. 2022; 169:269-271. doi: 10.1016/j.urology.2022.07.022

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35907483/
