PMID: 35904717
Title: Transcatheter aortic valve implantation and frailty.

Abstract: Over the last decade, transcatheter aortic valve implantation (TAVI) has emerged as a treatment option for patients with severe aortic stenosis. With exponential increase in the number of TAVI procedures, frailty assessments have been considered important for patients undergoing TAVI, and a number of studies have indicated a relationship between the frailty and post-TAVI outcomes. In this review, using studies searched systematically in the PubMed database, we review important frailty assessment tools that can be used as prognostic factors for patients before TAVI. The assessment tools were categorized as quantitative single marker, semi-quantitative single marker, or quantitative combined marker. Studies were further stratified by whether they used frailty markers to predict patients' prognosis pre-TAVI or to evaluate frailty improvement post-TAVI. The Clinical Frailty Scale (CFS), a semi-quantitative assessment, is one of the frailty assessment tools discussed. It may be easily used even in an outpatient consultation room. The CFS classifies patients' activity into nine categories, based on a simple interview and the patient's appearance. Gait speed and serum albumin levels were considered as qualitative frailty assessment tools. Compared to other methods, the Essential Frailty Toolset had the highest inter-rater reliability for accuracy in predicting mortality, thereby allowing better identification of vulnerable old age people and optimization of outcomes. A few studies have also focused on changes in frailty pre- and post-TAVI. Serum albumin-level measurements are important for assessing the frailty improvement in the chronic phase. Each frailty assessment tool had its own characteristics, strengths, and weaknesses, and therefore, these tools need to be selected based on where they are being used and the patient's condition.

Citation: Shimura T, et al. Transcatheter aortic valve implantation and frailty. Transcatheter aortic valve implantation and frailty. 2022; 37:626-634. doi: 10.1007/s12928-022-00868-w

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35904717/
