PMID: 35901774
Title: Combining time-driven activity-based costing and lean methodology: an initial study of single-level lumbar fusion surgery to assess value-based healthcare in patients undergoing spine surgery.

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: Measuring costs across entire episodes of care, time-driven activity-based costing (TDABC) has recently been described as a novel cost accounting arm of value-based care organizations. Lean methodology is a system used to understand pathways of care at a granular level, allowing for standardization. The current work presents an attempt at combining the 2 methodologies to detect meaningful variation in a patient's care following single-level spine fusion. The objective of this study was to evaluate the combination of TDABC and lean methodologies in detecting meaningful variability in time-based care in patients undergoing single-level spine fusion surgery.
METHODS: This study is a consecutive case series of patients who underwent single-level spine fusion performed by 1 of 5 fellowship-trained spine surgeons. Patients were diagnosed with either lumbar stenosis or spondylolisthesis. Additional inclusion criteria included inpatient stays from 1 to 3 days, discharge to home, and no readmission within 30 days of surgery. Patient demographic data were obtained. Time spent on activities for each personnel role was aggregated in 15-minute increments occurring preoperatively, intraoperatively, and postoperatively. Patients were analyzed in 3 groups based on the duration of their in-hospital stay.
RESULTS: Patients discharged on postoperative day (POD) 3 had statistically significantly more total time spent than those discharged on POD 2. Patients discharged on POD 1 had less total time than those in the former 2 groups. The amount of time spent with patients did not differ for personnel in either preoperative or postanesthesia care unit phases of care. There was a statistically significant difference in time spent in surgery for surgeons, anesthesia attendings, circulators, and scrub technicians.
CONCLUSIONS: In a healthcare setting run by lean methodology, TDABC may detect meaningful variability in an episode of care for single-level spine fusion. Clinicians and administrators can use this combination to allocate costs appropriately, optimize value care streams, and help improve patient care.

Citation: Sethi RK, et al. Combining time-driven activity-based costing and lean methodology: an initial study of single-level lumbar fusion surgery to assess value-based healthcare in patients undergoing spine surgery. Combining time-driven activity-based costing and lean methodology: an initial study of single-level lumbar fusion surgery to assess value-based healthcare in patients undergoing spine surgery. 2022; 37:639-645. doi: 10.3171/2022.4.SPINE211516

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35901774/
