PMID: 35904586
Title: Late-onset obstructive hydrocephalus associated with occipital encephalocele with large skull defect successfully treated by endoscopic third ventriculostomy.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Hydrocephalus is one of the most common presentations of occipital encephaloceles and usually develops within the first year of life. This case report presents a rare case of late-onset obstructive hydrocephalus associated with occipital encephalocele with an extraordinarily large occipital skull defect.
CASE REPORT: At birth, a newborn girl presented with an absence of a vast amount of occipital cranium and skin and was diagnosed with occipital hydroencephalomeningocele. Under meticulous sterile management, the affected area was successfully epithelialized, and the patient was discharged without infectious complication. Despite an obstructed cerebral aqueduct, she grew without any signs of hydrocephalus until the age of 7 years. Her gait gradually worsened, and imaging tests at the age of 8 years revealed markedly enlarged lateral and third ventricles but not the fourth ventricle. Endoscopic third ventriculostomy successfully relieved her symptoms with improvement of hydrocephalus.
CONCLUSION: This is the first case of late-onset obstructive hydrocephalus associated with an occipital encephalocele characterized by large-scale cranial bony defects. Although further investigation is required to elucidate the mechanism of hydrocephalus, this rare phenomenon should be noted during neurological and radiological follow-up.

Citation: Munekata Y, et al. Late-onset obstructive hydrocephalus associated with occipital encephalocele with large skull defect successfully treated by endoscopic third ventriculostomy. Late-onset obstructive hydrocephalus associated with occipital encephalocele with large skull defect successfully treated by endoscopic third ventriculostomy. 2023; 39:307-310. doi: 10.1007/s00381-022-05619-z

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35904586/
