PMID: 35906705
Title: Adjunct diagnostic value of radiological findings in mucopolysaccharidosis type IVa-related thoracic spinal abnormalities: a pilot study.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: In patients with mucopolysaccharidosis (MPS), systematic assessment and management of cervical instability, cervicomedullary and thoracolumbar junction spinal stenosis and spinal cord compression averts or arrests irreversible neurological damage, improving outcomes. However, few studies have assessed thoracic spinal involvement in MPS IVa patients. We aimed to evaluate thoracic spinal abnormalities in MPS IVa patients and identify associated image manifestations by CT and MRI study.
RESULTS: Data of patients diagnosed and/or treated for MPS IVa at MacKay Memorial Hospital from January 2010 to December 2020 were extracted from medical records and evaluated retrospectively. Computed tomography (CT), plain radiography and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) findings of MPS IVa-related spinal abnormalities were reviewed. Spine CT and plain radiography findings of 12 patients (6 males and 6 females with median age 7.5 years, range 1-28 years) revealed two subtypes of spinal abnormalities: thoracic kyphosis apex around T2 (subtype 1, n = 8) and thoracic kyphosis apex around T5 (subtype 2, n = 4). Spine CT and plain radiography clearly identified various degrees of thoracic kyphosis with apex around T2 or T5 in MPS IVa patients. Square-shaped to mild central beaking in middle thoracic vertebral bodies was observed in subtype 1 patients, while greater degrees of central beaking in middle thoracic vertebral bodies was observed in subtype 2 patients.
CONCLUSIONS: Spine CT findings clearly identify new radiological findings of thoracic kyphosis apex around T2 or T5 in MPS IVa patients. The degrees of central beaking at middle thoracic vertebral bodies may be a critical factor associated with different image presentations of thoracic kyphosis.

Citation: Jan YT, et al. Adjunct diagnostic value of radiological findings in mucopolysaccharidosis type IVa-related thoracic spinal abnormalities: a pilot study. Adjunct diagnostic value of radiological findings in mucopolysaccharidosis type IVa-related thoracic spinal abnormalities: a pilot study. 2022; 17:296. doi: 10.1186/s13023-022-02449-9

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35906705/
