PMID: 35906885
Title: Impact of Socioeconomic Demographics and Race on Laryngotracheal Stenosis Etiology and Outcomes.

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: Certain sociodemographic variables are known to result in health care disparities. This study investigates potential differences in outcomes for patients with laryngotracheal stenosis (LTS) based on racial backgrounds and socioeconomic variables including insurance status and English language-Proficiency.
METHODS: Patients with LTS from 2016 to 2021were identified by relevant ICD codes. Variables including race, age, gender, language preference and insurance status were collected from medical records. Risk factors for LTS including COPD, smoking history, diabetes, GERD, and BMI were obtained. Etiology of LTS was categorized as autoimmune, traumatic, iatrogenic, or idiopathic. Need for temporary tracheostomy and tracheostomy dependence were determined at last follow-up visit.
RESULTS: 129 patients were included for review. 70% of Black patients had iatrogenic LTS, whereas 65% of the White patient cohort had autoimmune or idiopathic LTS. Black patients were more strongly associated with temporary tracheostomy and tracheostomy dependence compared to White patients. Public health insurance and co-morbid GERD were associated with tracheostomy dependence for White patients only.
CONCLUSION: This study identified a disproportionate representation of Black patients in the iatrogenic etiology of LTS. Although controlling for risk factors of LTS, this cohort had an increased need for temporary tracheostomy and tracheostomy dependence compared to White and Latinx cohorts. This finding merits further study.
LEVEL OF EVIDENCE: 3 Laryngoscope, 133:908-913, 2023.

Citation: Plocienniczak M, et al. Impact of Socioeconomic Demographics and Race on Laryngotracheal Stenosis Etiology and Outcomes. Impact of Socioeconomic Demographics and Race on Laryngotracheal Stenosis Etiology and Outcomes. 2023; 133:908-913. doi: 10.1002/lary.30321

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35906885/
