PMID: 35907193
Title: Long noncoding RNA profile of the intracranial artery in patients with moyamoya disease.

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: Moyamoya disease (MMD) is a rare cerebrovascular disease characterized by progressive stenosis of the internal carotid artery (ICA) and secondary formation of collateral vessels. Revascularization surgery is performed in patients with MMD to prevent stroke; however, the pathogenesis of MMD remains unknown. Recently, long noncoding RNAs (lncRNAs) have been found to play a key role in gene regulation and are implicated in various vascular diseases. However, the lncRNA expression profile in MMD lesions has not been investigated. In this study the authors aimed to determine the characteristics of lncRNA expression in MMD lesions.
METHODS: The authors collected microsamples of the middle cerebral artery (MCA) from patients with MMD (n = 21) and patients with control conditions (n = 11) who underwent neurosurgical treatment. Using microarray experiments, the authors compared the profiles of lncRNA expression in the MCAs of the MMD and control patient groups and identified differentially expressed lncRNAs (fold change > 2, q < 0.05). In addition, the neighboring coding genes, whose transcription can be regulated in cis by the identified differentially expressed lncRNAs, were investigated and Gene Ontology (GO) analysis was applied to predict associated biological functions.
RESULTS: The authors detected 308 differentially expressed lncRNAs (fold change > 2, q < 0.05), including 306 upregulated and 2 downregulated lncRNAs in the MCA from patients with MMD. Regarding the prediction of biological function, GO analyses with possible coding genes whose transcription was regulated in cis by the identified differentially expressed lncRNAs suggested involvement in the antibacterial humoral response, T-cell receptor signaling pathway, positive regulation of cytokine production, and branching involved in blood vessel morphogenesis.
CONCLUSIONS: The profile of lncRNA expression in MMD lesions was different from that in the normal cerebral artery, and differentially expressed lncRNAs were identified. This study provides new insights into the pathophysiology of MMD.

Citation: Mamiya T, et al. Long noncoding RNA profile of the intracranial artery in patients with moyamoya disease. Long noncoding RNA profile of the intracranial artery in patients with moyamoya disease. 2023; 138:709-716. doi: 10.3171/2022.5.JNS22579

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35907193/
