PMID: 35906300
Title: Perioperative functional imaging after extracranial carotid endarterectomy for the detection of cerebral hyperperfusion syndrome.

Abstract: INTRODUCTION: SyngoDynaPBVNeuro® is a tool to perform cerebral blood volume (CBV) measurements intraoperatively by functional imaging producing CT-like images. Aim of this prospective study was to analyze the clinical relevance and benefit of CBV measurement with regard to neurological complications like cerebral hyperfusion syndrome (CHS).
METHODS: Forty-five patients undergoing endarterectomy (CEA) of the internal carotid artery were included; functional imaging with CBV measurement was performed before and after CEA. To evaluate and analyze CBV, six regions of interest (ROI) were identified for all patients with an additional ROI in patients with symptomatic ICA stenosis and previous stroke. The primary endpoint of the study was a perioperative change in CBV measurements. Secondary outcomes were incidence of stroke, TIA, CHS, and perioperative morbidity and mortality.
RESULTS: Thirty-day stroke incidence and thirty-day mortality were 0%. Thirty-day morbidity was 6.7%. Two patients from the asymptomatic group suffered from transient neurological symptoms without signs of intracerebral infarction in CT or MR scan, meeting diagnostic criteria for CHS. In 83.3% of ROIs in these patients, an increase of blood volume was detected. Overall, 26.7% patients suffered from unilateral headache as expression of potential CHS. A total of 69.4% of ROIs in patients with postoperative unilateral headache showed an increase when comparing pre- and postoperative CBV measurements.
CONCLUSION: The results show that increased CBV measured by functional imaging is a possible surrogate marker of neurological complications like CHS after CEA. By using intraoperative CBV measurement, the risk of CHS can be estimated early and appropriate therapeutic measures can be applied.

Citation: Hoffmann-Wieker CM, et al. Perioperative functional imaging after extracranial carotid endarterectomy for the detection of cerebral hyperperfusion syndrome. Perioperative functional imaging after extracranial carotid endarterectomy for the detection of cerebral hyperperfusion syndrome. 2022; 407:3113-3122. doi: 10.1007/s00423-022-02623-4

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35906300/
