PMID: 35913517
Title: Comparison of efficacy and safety of robotic surgery and laparoscopic surgery for choledochal cyst in children: a systematic review and proportional meta-analysis.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Most commonly, cyst excision and Roux-en-Y hepaticojejunostomy reconstruction are the optimal treatment for choledochal cysts (CC). Robotic surgery (RS) is being conducted with increasing frequency to treat CC. It is unclear whether RS can overcome the limitations of laparoscopic surgery (LS) and improve the prognosis of patients. In terms of efficacy, evidence concerning which minimally invasive surgery is preferred is, however, sparse. Our objective is to further compare the efficacy of RS and LS in children with CC and draw a useful clinical conclusion.
METHODS: Studies meeting inclusion criteria were identified from a series of databases, consisting of PubMed, Embase, Scopus, Web of Science, the Cochrane Library and their reference list of articles up to May 2022. Eligible articles comprised at least five objects that were younger than 18 years of age and the language was limited to English. Two authors independently evaluated selected studies and extracted data for analysis.
RESULTS: Forty studies were selected for analysis, with thirty-six reporting data on LS and eight containing data on RS. The pooled conversion rate and pooled postoperative complication rate of RS were lower than those of LS, but none of them was statistically significant. Moreover, comparisons of the following detailed postoperative complication rates were not statistically significant, such as intestinal obstruction or ileus, anastomotic bleeding, anastomotic or bile leakage, and anastomotic stenosis. However, the intraoperative blood loss and the postoperative hospital stay in RS group were significantly lower than those in LS group.
CONCLUSIONS: RS is a safe and feasible option for children with CC. Further studies with more cases, long-term efficacy and health economics analysis are needed to confirm whether RS is more advantageous.

Citation: Zhang MX, et al. Comparison of efficacy and safety of robotic surgery and laparoscopic surgery for choledochal cyst in children: a systematic review and proportional meta-analysis. Comparison of efficacy and safety of robotic surgery and laparoscopic surgery for choledochal cyst in children: a systematic review and proportional meta-analysis. 2023; 37:31-47. doi: 10.1007/s00464-022-09442-0

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35913517/
