PMID: 35916941
Title: Correlation between imaging findings on outpatient MR enterography (MRE) in adult patients with Crohn disease and progression to surgery within 5 years.

Abstract: PURPOSE: To retrospectively evaluate which key imaging features described by SAR-AGA on outpatient surveillance MRE correlate with progression to surgery in adults with CD.
METHODS: 52 CD patients imaged with outpatient MRE from 10/2015 to 12/2016 and with available clinical information were included. Two abdominal radiologists reviewed the MRE for the presence of active inflammation, intramural edema, restricted diffusion, stricture, probable stricture, ulceration, sacculation, simple fistula, complex fistula, sinus tract, inflammatory mass, abscess, perienteric inflammation, engorged vasa recta, fibrofatty proliferation, and perianal disease. Bowel wall thickness, length of bowel involvement, and degree of upstream dilation in strictures were quantified. Subsequent bowel resection, prior bowel surgery, and available laboratory values were recorded. The association between progression to surgery and imaging features was evaluated using a logistic regression model adjusting for demographics, prior bowel surgery, medication usage, and body mass index.
RESULTS: 19.2% (10/52) of patients progressed to surgery. Restricted diffusion, greater degree of upstream dilation from stricture, complex fistula, perienteric inflammation, and fibrofatty proliferation were significantly more common in patients progressing to surgery (all p < 0.05). κ for these significant findings ranged 0.568-0.885. Patients progressing to surgery had longer length bowel involvement (p = 0.03). Platelet count, ESR, and fecal calprotectin were significantly higher, and serum albumin was significantly lower in patients progressing to surgery. Prior bowel surgery, sex, age, and all other parameters were similar.
CONCLUSION: Radiologists should carefully describe bowel dilation upstream from strictures, penetrating and perienteric findings on outpatient MRE in CD patients, as these findings may herald progression to surgery.

Citation: Dane B, et al. Correlation between imaging findings on outpatient MR enterography (MRE) in adult patients with Crohn disease and progression to surgery within 5 years. Correlation between imaging findings on outpatient MR enterography (MRE) in adult patients with Crohn disease and progression to surgery within 5 years. 2022; 47:3424-3435. doi: 10.1007/s00261-022-03624-z

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35916941/
