PMID: 35915522
Title: Clinical outcome of endoscopic balloon dilatations employed in benign paediatric oesophageal pathologies.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Oesophageal dilatations can be done either by bougies or balloons for differing aetiologies in children. We investigated the efficacy and safety of endoscopic balloon dilatations (EBDs) employed by a single surgeon.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Relevant data over 12 years were retrospectively evaluated with an ethical committee approval.
RESULTS: Ninety-seven children underwent 514 EBD with a median EBD of 3 (1-50). The primary diagnoses were oesophageal atresia (OA) in 51 children, corrosive ingestion in 21, peptic strictures in 13, achalasia in 8 and congenital oesophageal stenosis in 4. The balloon size varied between 3 and 30 mm. The EBD was successfully ended in 72 patients and unsuccessful in six patients. Six children are still under EBD and 13 are lost to follow-up. The overall success rate was 92%. The age at the time of first dilatation was the youngest in OA group followed by corrosive strictures. The balloon sizes differed regarding the age of the patients with larger balloons used as the patient age increased. The sizes of the balloons used at the first and the last EBD differed among diagnostic groups. The total number of dilatations or the time interval between the first and the last EBD dilatation did not show a statistically significant difference among groups. The anatomical type of OA or the height of corrosive stricture revealed no significant difference in any of the above parameters. A transmural oesophageal perforation occurred during 2 (0.4%) EBD sessions.
CONCLUSIONS: EBD is an effective mean in relieving paediatric oesophageal pathologies with a variety of aetiologies and has a low complication rate.

Citation: Durakbasa CU, et al. Clinical outcome of endoscopic balloon dilatations employed in benign paediatric oesophageal pathologies. Clinical outcome of endoscopic balloon dilatations employed in benign paediatric oesophageal pathologies. 2023; 19:62-68. doi: 10.4103/jmas.jmas_79_22

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35915522/
