PMID: 35928577
Title: Primary malignant melanoma in gastroesophageal junction with 36 months' recurrence-free: a case report.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Melanoma is a sinister malignant tumor originates from melanocytes and is characterized by the presence of black pigmentation in the tissue. The vast majority of melanomas are cutaneous melanomas, and primary mucosal melanomas originating from the esophagus are extremely rare. Primary malignant melanoma of esophagus (PMME) accounts for 0.1% to 0.2% of all primary esophageal malignancies. PMME possess high invasiveness but are insensitive to various treatments, so the prognosis is disappointing. Most literature reported that patients are prone to death from complications of tumor metastasis soon, even they undergo radical surgery.
CASE DESCRIPTION: In this case report, we admitted a 67-year-old female patient with recurrent chest tightness for 2 years and chest pain for 15 days on October 4, 2017. Preoperative imaging examinations, including computerized tomography (CT) and upper gastrointestinal examination by barium revealed stenosis of the lower esophagus and the fundus of the stomach, with mucosa destruction and lymph node metastasis in the hepatic-gastric space. A laparoscope assisted total gastrectomy with D2 lymph node resection and Roux-en-Y anastomosis was performed without adjuvant immunotherapy or targeted therapies. Postoperative pathological examination and immunohistochemical staining indicated malignant melanoma. Meanwhile we did not find a cutaneous lesion, this patient was therefore diagnosed with a rare PMME. There was no sign of recurrence or metastasis during the latest follow-up of 36 months after the operation, which also exceeded the median recurrence-free survival time in the existing cases worldwide.
CONCLUSIONS: Therefore, we recommend early radical surgery, which may be beneficial to the PMME patient.

Citation: Dai Y, et al. Primary malignant melanoma in gastroesophageal junction with 36 months' recurrence-free: a case report. Primary malignant melanoma in gastroesophageal junction with 36 months' recurrence-free: a case report. 2022; 6:22. doi: 10.21037/acr-21-83

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35928577/
