PMID: 35927634
Title: Association of serum apoA-I with in-stent restenosis in coronary heart disease.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Despite use of drug-eluting stents (DES), in-stent restenosis (ISR) continues adversely affecting clinical outcomes of patients undergoing percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI). Apolipoprotein A-I (apoA-I) has athero-protective effects. However, there is a paucity of clinical data regarding the association between apoA-I and ISR. We sought to investigate whether serum apoA-I is related to ISR after DES-based PCI.
METHODS: In this retrospective case control study, 604 consecutive patients who underwent DES implantation before were enrolled. Patients who underwent repeat angiography within 12 months were included in the early ISR study (n = 205), while those beyond 12 months were included in the late ISR study (n = 399). ISR was defined as the presence of > 50% diameter stenosis at the stent site or at its edges. Clinical characteristics were compared between ISR and non-ISR patients in the early and late ISR study, respectively, after adjusting for confounding factors by multivariate logistic regression, stratified analysis, and propensity score matching. The predictive value was assessed by univariate and multivariate logistic regression analysis, receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve analysis, and quartile analysis.
RESULTS: In the early ISR study, 8.8% (18 of 205) patients developed ISR. Serum apoA-I in the ISR group was lower than that in the non-ISR group (1.1 ± 0.26 vs. 1.24 ± 0.23, P < 0.05). On multivariate logistic regression analysis, apoA-I was an independent risk factor for early ISR. Incidence of early ISR showed negative correlation with apoA-I and could be predicted by the combined use of apoA-I and glycosylated hemoglobin (HbA1c) level. In the late ISR study, 21.8% (87 of 399) patients developed ISR. On subgroup analysis, late ISR showed negative correlation with apoA-I irrespective of intensive lipid lowering; on multivariate logistic regression analysis, apoA-I was also an independent risk factor for late ISR. In patients with intensive lipid lowering, combined use of apoA-I, stenting time, and diabetes predicted the incidence of late ISR.
CONCLUSIONS: ApoA-I was an independent risk factor for ISR, and showed a negative correlation with ISR after DES-based PCI. Combined use of apoA-I and clinical indicators may better predict the incidence of ISR under certain circumstances.

Citation: Wang X, et al. Association of serum apoA-I with in-stent restenosis in coronary heart disease. Association of serum apoA-I with in-stent restenosis in coronary heart disease. 2022; 22:355. doi: 10.1186/s12872-022-02762-y

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35927634/
