PMID: 35922702
Title: Verapamil inhibited the development of ureteral stricture by blocking CaMK II-mediated STAT3 and Smad3/JunD pathways.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Ureteral stricture (US) is a fibrotic process that leads to urinary tract obstruction and even kidney damage, with the characteristic of reduced extracellular matrix (ECM) degradation and increased collagen synthesis. Verapamil, as a calcium channel blocker, was reported to prevent scar formation. Our work aimed to investigate the biological effects and mechanism of verapamil in US.
METHODS: Fibroblasts were subjected to transforming growth factor-beta 1 (TGF-β1) to stimulate collagen synthesis, and the messenger ribonucleic acid (mRNA) and protein expressions in fibroblasts were assessed using quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR) and western blot. The location of phosphorylation-signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (p-STAT3) and Jund proto-oncogene subunit (JunD) in fibroblasts were determined by immunofluorescence (IF). The binding relationship between signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3) and collagen type I alpha1 (COL1A1)/collagen type III alpha 1 chain (COL3A1) and the binding relationship between JunD and tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinases-1 (TIMP-1) were verified by dual luciferase reporter gene and chromatin Immunoprecipitation (ChIP) assays.
RESULTS: Herein, we found that verapamil could inhibit TGF-β1/Ca2 + ⁄calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II (CaMK II)-mediated STAT3 activation in fibroblasts, and STAT3 inhibition repressed collagen production. In addition, verapamil could inhibit TGF-β1/CaMK II-mediated Mothers against DPP homolog 3 (Smad3)/JunD pathway activation in fibroblasts, and JunD silencing inhibited TIMP1 (a matrix metalloproteinase inhibitor) expression. Our subsequent experiments revealed that STAT3 bound with COL1A1 promoter and COL3A1 promoter and activated their transcription, and JunD bound with TIMP1 promoter and activated its transcription. Moreover, as expected, STAT3 activation could eliminate the inhibitory effect of verapamil treatment on TGF-β1-induced collagen production in fibroblasts, and JunD overexpression reversed the inhibitory effect of verapamil treatment on TGF-β1-induced TIMP1 expression in fibroblasts.
CONCLUSION: Verapamil inhibited collagen production and TIMP-1 expression in US by blocking CaMK II-mediated STAT3 and Smad3/JunD pathways.

Citation: Qing Z, et al. Verapamil inhibited the development of ureteral stricture by blocking CaMK II-mediated STAT3 and Smad3/JunD pathways. Verapamil inhibited the development of ureteral stricture by blocking CaMK II-mediated STAT3 and Smad3/JunD pathways. 2022; 54:2855-2866. doi: 10.1007/s11255-022-03284-4

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35922702/
