PMID: 35926919
Title: Coronary Access Following Redo TAVR: Impact of THV Design, Implant Technique, and Cell Misalignment.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: The implications and potential challenges of coronary access after redo transcatheter aortic valve replacement (TAVR) are unknown.
OBJECTIVES: The authors sought to evaluate the impact of different transcatheter heart valve (THV) designs, neoskirt height, implant technique, and cell misalignment on coronary access after redo TAVR.
METHODS: Different THV designs (Sapien 3 [Edwards Lifesciences LLC], Evolut Pro [Medtronic], ACURATE neo [Boston Scientific Corporation], and Portico [Abbott Structural Heart]) and sizes were implanted inside Sapien XT (Edwards Lifesciences LLC) and Evolut R (Medtronic) THVs, which were modeled as the "failed" THVs, at different implant depths. Valve combinations underwent micro-computed tomography to determine the neoskirt height and dimensions of the lowest accessible cell for potential coronary access. This was compared with dimensions of 6-F/7-F/8-F coronary guiding catheters.
RESULTS: Redo TAVR combinations resulted in a wide range of neoskirt heights (15.4-31.6 mm) and a variable diameter of the lowest accessible cell (1.9-21.8 mm). An ACURATE neo implanted in a Sapien XT resulted in the largest accessible cells, whereas a Portico implanted in a Sapien XT resulted in the lowest neoskirt heights. The smallest accessible cell was observed in the Evolut Pro-in-Evolut R configuration with higher neoskirt heights. Redo TAVR in a tall frame valve with supra-annular leaflets caused a taller neoskirt height. In Evolut-in-Evolut combinations, misalignment of the cells of the 2 THVs reduced the cell area by 30% to 50% compared with an aligned configuration.
CONCLUSIONS: This study demonstrates that different redo TAVR combinations are not equivalent in terms of future coronary access. Redo TAVR using a tall frame valve in a failed tall frame valve and misaligned cells may lead to potentially challenging coronary access.

Citation: Meier D, et al. Coronary Access Following Redo TAVR: Impact of THV Design, Implant Technique, and Cell Misalignment. Coronary Access Following Redo TAVR: Impact of THV Design, Implant Technique, and Cell Misalignment. 2022; 15:1519-1531. doi: 10.1016/j.jcin.2022.05.005

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35926919/
