PMID: 35939958
Title: Gadolinium-enhanced MR improved motion sensitized driven equilibrium (iMSDE) for intracranial vessel imaging in giant cell arteritis.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Giant cell arteritis (GCA) generally affects extracranial large and medium-sized vessels. It rarely causes intracranial vessel stenosis, presenting as cerebral infarction (CI). Consequently, accurate diagnosis of CI induced by GCA is often challenging. Improved motion-sensitized driven-equilibrium (iMSDE) is one of the advanced high-resolution magnetic resonance (MR) vessel wall imaging techniques that enables direct visualization of the vessel wall because of a strong reduction in blood flow artifacts, leading to higher quality images. Herein, we effectively used gadolinium-enhanced MR iMSDE imaging to diagnose a patient presenting with recurrent CI due to right intracranial internal carotid artery (ICA) stenosis as GCA.
CASE DESCRIPTION: A 64-year-old man with polymyalgia rheumatica for several years and who had experienced CI due to moderate intracranial ICA stenosis one year ago, presented to the emergency room with dysarthria and left hemiparesis. Diffusion-weighted MR imaging showed high signals in the right centrum ovale, and MR angiography revealed severe stenosis of the right intracranial ICA. Gadolinium-enhanced MR iMSDE imaging showed marked concentric enhancement in the vessel wall of the right stenosed ICA, which led to a definitive diagnosis of GCA via biopsy from the right superficial temporal artery. The patient's symptoms gradually improved after initiation of steroid treatment. Three months later, gadolinium-enhanced MR iMSDE imaging revealed improvement in the contrast enhancement in the vessel wall and vascular stenosis.
CONCLUSION: Gadolinium-enhanced MR iMSDE imaging is useful to diagnose and evaluate GCA with intracranial vessel involvement.

Citation: Tomoyose R, et al. Gadolinium-enhanced MR improved motion sensitized driven equilibrium (iMSDE) for intracranial vessel imaging in giant cell arteritis. Gadolinium-enhanced MR improved motion sensitized driven equilibrium (iMSDE) for intracranial vessel imaging in giant cell arteritis. 2022; 31:106697. doi: 10.1016/j.jstrokecerebrovasdis.2022.106697

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35939958/
