PMID: 35931362
Title: Angioscopic evaluation after venous stents.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Venous stenting is increasingly used to manage femoro-ilio-caval venous outflow obstruction/stenosis due to post-thrombotic syndrome. Although the safety, efficacy, and long-term patency of venous stents have been reported, re-interventions due to stent occlusion and in-stent restenosis (ISR) have also been reported. The mechanism of ISR and the in-stent neointimal growth after venous stenting remains unclear. We performed angioscopy to evaluate intraluminal details after venous stenting, allowing real-time direct visualization of the vessel lumen.
METHODS: Ten angioscopic procedures in four patients with post-thrombotic syndrome were performed. All evaluated vessels were stented iliac veins, and their native pathology was chronic post-thrombotic occlusion. Nine procedures in three patients underwent serial evaluation of the neointimal changes after stent implantation to study the natural time course of neointimal proliferation/coverage over the stent. The serial follow-up angioscopic evaluations were performed at the end of the venous stent deployment procedure, and at 6 months, 12 months, and 24 months. One procedure was performed 1 month after the stent implantation to evaluate ISR, which was observed at the first month of routine stent surveillance. A 5.7F angioscope was used to visualize the target veins. Continuous irrigation was used to displace blood and clear the visual field.
RESULTS: At 6 months after stent implantation, stent struts were covered by a thin neointima in two of the three patients. The struts were partially covered in one patient, but there was little neointimal growth overall. Neointimal coverage increased over time, and at 12 months stent struts in 2 patients were almost completely covered. There was no significant change between the 12 and 24 months after stent implantation. In the ISR case, angioscopy demonstrated an overgrown thickened neointima, and the stent struts were fully embedded and invisible in the entire stented area. No thrombus and no webs or trabeculae were found in the area evaluated as an ISR lesion.
CONCLUSIONS: At 6 months after stent placement, the stent struts were almost covered by a neointima. The stent struts were completely covered 1 year after stent implantation. Neointimal coverage was unchanged from the 1-year follow-up to the 2-year follow-up, suggesting that neointimal proliferation proceeded gradually with subsequent neointimal remodeling up to 1 year. The cause of ISR might be the overgrown thickened neointima rather than the formation of thrombosis.

Citation: Hoshino Y and Yokoi H. Angioscopic evaluation after venous stents. Angioscopic evaluation after venous stents. 2023; 11:136-142. doi: 10.1016/j.jvsv.2022.05.017

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35931362/
