PMID: 35936164
Title: Outcomes of Endoscopic Third Ventriculostomy in Pediatric Patients With Hydrocephalus.

Abstract: Background Endoscopic third ventriculostomy (ETV) is used to treat patients with obstructive hydrocephalus in infants. This study evaluated the postoperative outcomes of ETV among pediatric patients. Methodology A retrospective study was undertaken at the Mardan Medical Complex between June 2018 and June 2021. All pediatric patients who underwent the procedure of ETV in both the absence and presence of choroid plexus cauterization (CPC) at our center were included in the study. Using medical history data, a comprehensive survey questionnaire was designed. The findings and effects were evaluated either as a success or failure. Results A total of 90 cases were reviewed during the study. The rate of in-hospital mortality was 1.1% while the most commonly identified causes of hydrocephalus were myelomeningocele and aqueductal stenosis. A total of 39 (43.33%) patients had a successful surgery. In patients where hydrocephalus was secondary to aqueductal stenosis, the success rate was the highest, while the success rate was quite low for post-infectious hydrocephalus and intraventricular hemorrhage (p < 0.0001). The postoperative complication rate was 55.56% in our study. The rate of in-hospital mortality was 1.1%. Conclusions We found that the success rate of ETV was dependent upon factors such as the cause of hydrocephalus, type of hydrocephalus, and the age of the patient. Therefore, ETV is not suitable for all patients, and vigilance must be undertaken in selecting patients for the procedure. The rate of postoperative infections in our institution was alarmingly high which is a concerning matter for the institution.

Citation: Haq NU, et al. Outcomes of Endoscopic Third Ventriculostomy in Pediatric Patients With Hydrocephalus. Outcomes of Endoscopic Third Ventriculostomy in Pediatric Patients With Hydrocephalus. 2022; 14:e26608. doi: 10.7759/cureus.26608

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35936164/
