PMID: 35939340
Title: Serial neurocognitive changes following transcatheter aortic valve replacement: comparison between low and intermediate-high risk groups.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Data comparing the neurocognitive trajectory between low and intermediate-high risk patients following transcatheter aortic valve replacement (TAVR) is never reported.
AIMS: To report serial neurocognitive changes up to 1 year post-TAVR in low and intermediate-high risk groups as well as overall cohort.
METHODS: Prospective neurological assessments (NIHSS and Barthel Index), global cognitive tests (MMSE and Alzheimer Disease Assessment Scale-Cognitive Subtest, ADAS-cog) and executive performances (Color Trail Test A and B and verbal fluency), were applied at baseline, 3 months and 1 year post-TAVR.
RESULTS: In overall cohort, persistent improvement to 1 year in MMSE, ADAS-cog, Color Trail Test A and B was found. According to the STS score, the study cohort was divided into low (&lt;4%, N = 81) and intermediate-high (≧4%, N = 75) risk groups. The baseline neurologic and cognitive performance was significantly worse in intermediate-high risk group. Slight improvement on general neurological functions (Barthel index and proportion of NIHSS&gt;0 patients) at 1 year could be observed only in intermediate-high risk group. In global cognitive assessments, improvement in MMSE and ADAS-cog at 1 year was found in both groups, but the proportion of cognitive improvement was more obvious in intermediate-high risk group. In Color Trail Tests and verbal fluency, significant and persistent improvement up to 1 year could be observed only in low risk group.
CONCLUSIONS: TAVR was associated with persistent improvement in global cognitive function, as well as in attention and psychomotor processing speed, up to 1 year in overall cohort. However, improvement in tests for executive functions can only be seen in low risk group.

Citation: Ko TY, et al. Serial neurocognitive changes following transcatheter aortic valve replacement: comparison between low and intermediate-high risk groups. Serial neurocognitive changes following transcatheter aortic valve replacement: comparison between low and intermediate-high risk groups. 2022; 14:6111-6127. doi: 10.18632/aging.204202

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35939340/
