PMID: 35936185
Title: Ankle-Brachial Index and Cardio-Ankle Vascular Index as Predictors of Cognitive Decline Over Time After Carotid Endarterectomy.

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: Patients with carotid stenosis risk cognitive impairment even after carotid endarterectomy (CEA) because of the long-term presence of vascular risk factors. Early prediction of cognitive decline is useful because early appropriate training for impaired cognitive domains can improve their functions. Ankle-brachial index (ABI) and cardio-ankle vascular index (CAVI) are frequently used as general indicators of systemic atherosclerosis and are associated with cognitive function in the general population. This study aimed to evaluate the utility of those vascular biomarkers for predicting cognitive decline in patients after CEA.
METHODS: Patients who had undergone both CEA at our institute and cognitive evaluations between March 2016 and January 2022 were invited to participate in this study. Associations between ABI or CAVI three years before baseline and cognitive function at baseline were assessed retrospectively in 94 patients, and associations between ABI or CAVI at baseline and three-year changes in cognitive functions were assessed prospectively in 24 patients. Cognitive functions were assessed using the Frontal Assessment Battery (FAB) and Neurobehavioral Cognitive Status Examination (Cognistat).
RESULTS: Low ABI three years before baseline was associated with poor performances on Cognistat and FAB at baseline. ABI, as a continuous measure, three years before baseline, showed positive linear associations with total Cognistat score and subscores for naming, construction, and judgment at baseline. The Wilcoxon signed-rank test showed that the total Cognistat score, total FAB score, and subscores for attention and inhibitory control declined after three years. CAVI at baseline was negatively associated with three-year changes in total Cognistat score and subscores for naming, construction, and memory.
CONCLUSION: Cognitive function can decline over time in patients with carotid stenosis even after CEA. ABI and CAVI might be useful to predict cognitive function and its decline among patients who have undergone CEA.

Citation: Miyamatsu Y, et al. Ankle-Brachial Index and Cardio-Ankle Vascular Index as Predictors of Cognitive Decline Over Time After Carotid Endarterectomy. Ankle-Brachial Index and Cardio-Ankle Vascular Index as Predictors of Cognitive Decline Over Time After Carotid Endarterectomy. 2022; 14:e26534. doi: 10.7759/cureus.26534

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35936185/
