PMID: 35940028
Title: Reversible cerebral artery constriction accompanied with stroke-like episode in MELAS: A case series.

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: The pathophysiology of stroke-like episode (SLE) in mitochondrial myopathy, encephalopathy, lactic acidosis and stroke-like episodes (MELAS) was uncertain, though mitochondrial metabolic crisis of cortical neurons and mitochondrial proliferation in small vessels of brain have been considered. However, the involvement of major cerebral vessels was debated. We aimed to investigate whether major cerebral vessels participate in SLE.
METHODS: We retrospectively collected the clinical and neuroimaging data of MELAS patients diagnosed in our center. Through follow-up, the cases harboring reversible cerebral artery constriction on brain magnetic resonance angiography (MRA) examination were included in this study.
RESULTS: There were 20 patients with intact brain MRA data at acute and non-acute phases. Only 3 cases with m.3243A > G mutation were enrolled. They suffered once or twice SLEs manifesting headache, blurred vision, seizures or mental and behavior disorder. New lesions were present in temporo-parietal and/or temporo-occipital regions. Segmental stenosis at middle cerebral artery and/or posterior cerebral artery, proximal portions in particular, was ipsilateral to the lesions at acute phase in all the 3 patients, which was resolved during the subacute or chronic stages. Moreover, the SLEs lesions were located within the stenotic arteries territory. In addition, dilation at distal portions of the stenotic arteries was observed at acute phase as well in 2 patients.
CONCLUSION: Reversible constriction of cerebral arteries may contribute to SLE of MELAS. MELAS should be a differential diagnosis when stenosis of major cerebral vessels is present at acute phase of SLE.

Citation: Zhao Y, et al. Reversible cerebral artery constriction accompanied with stroke-like episode in MELAS: A case series. Reversible cerebral artery constriction accompanied with stroke-like episode in MELAS: A case series. 2022; 441:120345. doi: 10.1016/j.jns.2022.120345

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35940028/
