PMID: 35944729
Title: Midterm results of complicated penetrating abdominal aortic ulcer treated by aortobi-iliac endograft and embolization.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Penetrating aortic ulcer (PAU) is determined by atherosclerotic degeneration of the tunica media with disruption of the intima. Usually it is detected in the thoracic aorta, with few series describing an abdominal location. The aim of the study was to report early and late outcomes of the endovascular repair of complicated infrarenal abdominal PAU (a-PAU) by aortobi-iliac endograft and embolization.
METHODS: Data from all complicated a-PAU submitted to endovascular repair by aortobi-iliac endograft (Cook-Zenith Alpha) between 2016 and 2021 (February) were analyzed. The a-PAU coil embolization was performed to decrease the risk of persistent type II endoleak whenever possible. Complicated a-PAU were defined according with the presence of symptoms, aortic rupture, or saccular or pseudo-aneurysm. Technical success, 30-day morbidity and mortality, and reinterventions were assessed as early outcomes. Survival, endoleaks, and freedom from reinterventions were evaluated during follow-up.
RESULTS: Of 1153 endovascular aortic procedures, 45 cases (4%) of complicated a-PAU were identified. Fourteen cases (31%) were managed in urgent setting (symptoms, n = 10 [22%]; shock, n = 4 [9%]). The median diameter of a-PAU was 49 mm (interquartile range, 14 mm). Thirteen patients (29%) had severe femoral or iliac access (angle >90°, circumferential calcification [>50%], hemodynamic iliac stenosis or obstruction, an external iliac artery diameter of less than 7 mm, or a previous femoral surgical graft). The a-PAU embolization was performed in 30 cases (67%). Technical success was achieved in all patients. Postoperative cardiac, pulmonary and renal morbidity occurred in one (2%), two (4%), and eight (18%) patients, respectively. Two patients (4%) required reintervention within 30 days for access related complications. The 30-day mortality was 2%. At a median follow-up of 24 months (interquartile range, 18 months), no type I or III endoleaks, iliac leg occlusion, or graft infection occurred and no patient required late reinterventions; the 36-month survival rate was 72%. No a-PAU enlarged or ruptured during follow-up.
CONCLUSIONS: Endovascular repair of complicated a-PAU by a low-profile aortobi-iliac endograft and embolization is safe and effective. Excellent technical results are reported even in challenging anatomic features. Midterm clinical results are satisfactory in terms of aortic-related complications or mortality, freedom from reintervention, and survival.

Citation: Gallitto E, et al. Midterm results of complicated penetrating abdominal aortic ulcer treated by aortobi-iliac endograft and embolization. Midterm results of complicated penetrating abdominal aortic ulcer treated by aortobi-iliac endograft and embolization. 2023; 77:106-113.e2. doi: 10.1016/j.jvs.2022.07.181

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35944729/
