PMID: 35949114
Title: Surgical Management of 48 Patients with Retrosternal Goiter and Tracheal Stenosis: A Retrospective Clinical Study from a Single Surgical Center.

Abstract: BACKGROUND Benign retrosternal thyroid goiters can become large enough to compress the trachea and result in tracheomalacia and stenosis. This retrospective study from a single surgical center aimed to study the surgical management of 48 patients with retrosternal goiter and tracheal stenosis diagnosed and treated from January 2017 to December 2021. MATERIAL AND METHODS All preoperative contrast-enhanced CT scans showed retrosternal goiter and tracheal stenosis. RG was classified into type I in 28 patients, type II in 12 patients, and type III in 8 patients. TS was classified into grade I in 31 patients, grade II in 11 patients, and grade III in 6 patients. All patients were referred for surgery. Clinicopathologic features and surgical outcomes were recorded. RESULTS All operations were successfully performed. There were 41 patients with transcervical incision, 4 with cervical incision+sternotomy, 2 with cervical incision and thoracoscopic surgery, and 1 with cervical incision and surgery via the subxiphoid approach. Two patients presented recurrent laryngeal nerve injury. One patient showed short-term hand and foot numbness. The patients were pathologically diagnosed as simple nodular goiter (n=27), nodular goiter combined with cystic change (n=6), adenomatous nodular goiter (n=10), and thyroid adenoma (n=5). There was no prominent tumor recurrence or gradual TS remission. CONCLUSIONS This study has highlighted that patients with retrosternal goiter and tracheal stenosis may have comorbidities and require a multidisciplinary approach to management. The choice of anesthesia, surgical approach, and maintenance of the airway during and after surgery should be individualized.

Citation: Zuo T, et al. Surgical Management of 48 Patients with Retrosternal Goiter and Tracheal Stenosis: A Retrospective Clinical Study from a Single Surgical Center. Surgical Management of 48 Patients with Retrosternal Goiter and Tracheal Stenosis: A Retrospective Clinical Study from a Single Surgical Center. 2022; 28:e936637. doi: 10.12659/MSM.936637

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35949114/
