PMID: 35959231
Title: Use of Magnetic Resonance Imaging to Assess the Regenerative Effects of Adipose Tissue-Derived Mesenchymal Stem Cells in a Rabbit Cartilaginous Laryngeal Defect Model.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Stenosis and scar formation after repair of laryngeal tissue defects are serious problems that can significantly influence a patient's quality of life.
OBJECTIVE: In this study, we evaluated the use of magnetic resonance imaging to assess the efficacy of adipose tissue-derived mesenchymal stem cells (ASCs) on cartilaginous regeneration in an experimental rabbit model.
METHODS: Ten male white Dutch rabbits each had a 5 mm cartilaginous defect created surgically in the right and left thyroid lamina. On the right side, ASCs labeled with iron oxide particles were infused. As a control, the left side was left untreated. Repair of the defects were then evaluated by direct observation, histological evaluation, and magnetic resonance imaging monitoring done on days 1, 7, 14, and 28.
RESULTS: Histological examination revealed that compared with control, transplanted ASCs significantly increased cartilage regeneration (P ˂ 0.001), reduced inflammation (P ˂ 0.001), and fibrosis (P = 0.050). Magnetic resonance imaging tracking showed accurate placement and viability of the infused ASCs, as evidenced by low signal intensity onT2 weighted images at the level of the right thyroid cartilage.
CONCLUSIONS: Infusion of ASCs improved laryngeal regeneration of surgically induced cartilaginous defects while decreasing fibrous tissue formation in this in vivo rabbit model. Furthermore, magnetic resonance imaging was shown to be a useful, noninvasive method to track correct ASCs placement and viability in cartilage regeneration in this animal model.

Citation: Iravani K, et al. Use of Magnetic Resonance Imaging to Assess the Regenerative Effects of Adipose Tissue-Derived Mesenchymal Stem Cells in a Rabbit Cartilaginous Laryngeal Defect Model. Use of Magnetic Resonance Imaging to Assess the Regenerative Effects of Adipose Tissue-Derived Mesenchymal Stem Cells in a Rabbit Cartilaginous Laryngeal Defect Model. 2022; 97:100682. doi: 10.1016/j.curtheres.2022.100682

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35959231/
