PMID: 35952981
Title: Incidence and clinical impact of tachyarrhythmic events following transcatheter aortic valve replacement: A review.

Abstract: Transcatheter aortic valve replacement (TAVR) is well established for treating severe symptomatic aortic stenosis. Whereas broad information on the epidemiology, clinical implications, and management of bradyarrhythmias after TAVR is available, data about tachyarrhythmic events remain scarce. Despite the progressively lower risk profile of TAVR patients and the improvement in device characteristics and operator skills, approximately 10% of patients develop new-onset atrial fibrillation (NOAF) after TAVR. The proportion of patients in whom NOAF actually corresponds to previously undiagnosed silent atrial fibrillation (AF) has not been properly determined. The transapical approach, the need for pre- or post- balloon dilation, and the presence of periprocedural complications have been associated with a higher risk of NOAF. Older age, left atrial volume, or worse functional class are patient-derived risk factors shared with preprocedural AF. NOAF after TAVR has been associated with poorer survival and a higher incidence of cerebrovascular events. However, patient management differs markedly among different centers, especially with regard to anticoagulation in patients with short-duration AF episodes detected in the periprocedural setting and in cases of silent NOAF detected during continuous electrocardiographic (ECG) monitoring. Evidence about ventricular arrhythmias is even more scarce than for AF. Some case reports of sudden cardiac death after TAVR in patients with a pacemaker have identified ventricular tachycardia or ventricular fibrillation in device interrogation. TAVR has been shown to reduce the arrhythmic burden, but a significant proportion of patients (16%) present with complex premature ventricular complex arrhythmias within the year after TAVR. Whether these events are related to poorer outcomes is unknown. Continuous ECG monitoring after TAVR may help describe the frequency, risk factors, and prognostic implications of tachyarrhythmias in this population.

Citation: Nuche J, et al. Incidence and clinical impact of tachyarrhythmic events following transcatheter aortic valve replacement: A review. Incidence and clinical impact of tachyarrhythmic events following transcatheter aortic valve replacement: A review. 2022; 19:1890-1898. doi: 10.1016/j.hrthm.2022.07.028

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35952981/
