PMID: 35956339
Title: Association between Coronary Artery Plaque Progression and Liver Fibrosis Biomarkers in Population with Low Calcium Scores.

Abstract: Background: The severity of nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) has been found to be associated with atherosclerosis burden. However, whether liver fibrosis scores can be used to predict atherosclerosis progression, especially for patients with low calcium scores, remains undetermined. Methods: A total of 165 subjects who underwent repeated coronary computed tomography angiography (CCTA) and had low calcium scores (<100) were enrolled. The segment stenosis score (SSS) from the CCTA was measured, and the association between SSS progression and biochemical parameters was analyzed in addition to liver fibrosis scores, including nonalcoholic fatty liver disease fibrosis score (NFS), fibrosis-4 index (FIB-4), aspartate aminotransferase (AST) to platelet ratio index (APRI), and Forns score. Results: When compared with those without plaque at baseline (SSS = 0), subjects with plaque had higher blood pressure, higher coronary artery calcium (CAC) scores, and higher liver fibrosis scores, including Forns score, Fib-4, and NFS. During the medium follow-up interval of 24.7 months, 60 (39.4%) patients displayed SSS progression, while the remaining 105 (63.6%) patients showed no CAD progression. In a multivariate analysis, being male having a high diastolic blood pressure (DBP), and having a high NFS liver fibrosis score were independently associated with the odds ratio for SSS progression. Conclusions: Higher baseline blood pressure and liver fibrosis markers are associated with the presence of coronary artery disease (CAD) plaques in subjects in early CAD stages. For disease progression, the male gender, DBP, and NFS appear to be independently associated with coronary atherosclerosis plaque progression in subjects with low calcium scores.

Citation: Tsai TY, et al. Association between Coronary Artery Plaque Progression and Liver Fibrosis Biomarkers in Population with Low Calcium Scores. Association between Coronary Artery Plaque Progression and Liver Fibrosis Biomarkers in Population with Low Calcium Scores. 2022; 14:(unknown pages). doi: 10.3390/nu14153163

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35956339/
