PMID: 35958517
Title: Research and clinical translation of trilayer stent-graft of expanded polytetrafluoroethylene for interventional treatment of aortic dissection.

Abstract: The aortic dissection (AD) is a life-threatening disease. The transcatheter endovascular aortic repair (EVAR) affords a minimally invasive technique to save the lives of these critical patients, and an appropriate stent-graft gets to be the key medical device during an EVAR procedure. Herein, we report a trilayer stent-graft and corresponding delivery system used for the treatment of the AD disease. The stent-graft is made of nitinol stents with an asymmetric Z-wave design and two expanded polytetrafluoroethylene (ePTFE) membranes. Each of the inner and outer surfaces of the stent-graft was covered by an ePTFE membrane, and the two membranes were then sintered together. The biological studies of the sintered ePTFE membranes indicated that the stent-graft had excellent cytocompatibility and hemocompatibility in vitro. Both the stent-graft and the delivery system exhibited satisfactory mechanical properties and operability. The safety and efficacy of this stent-graft and the corresponding delivery system were demonstrated in vivo. In nine canine experiments, the blood vessels of the animals implanted with the stent-grafts were of good patency, and there were no thrombus and obvious stenosis by angiography after implantation for 6 months. Furthermore, all of the nine clinical cases experienced successful implantation using the stent-graft and its postrelease delivery system, and the 1-year follow-ups indicated the preliminary safety and efficacy of the trilayer stent-graft with an asymmetric Z-wave design for interventional treatment.

Citation: Wang G, et al. Research and clinical translation of trilayer stent-graft of expanded polytetrafluoroethylene for interventional treatment of aortic dissection. Research and clinical translation of trilayer stent-graft of expanded polytetrafluoroethylene for interventional treatment of aortic dissection. 2022; 9:rbac049. doi: 10.1093/rb/rbac049

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35958517/
