PMID: 35966252
Title: Clinical Efficacy of Interventional Therapy on Lower Extremity Arteriosclerosis Obliterans and Prognostic Factors.

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: This study was designed to analyse the clinical efficacy of interventional therapy on lower extremity arteriosclerosis obliterans (LEASO) and prognostic factors.
METHODS: A total of 122 patients with LEASO diagnosed in our hospital from March 2017 to March 2019 were retrospectively analysed. Among them, 72 patients who received conservative therapy were assigned to a conservative group, and 50 patients who received interventional therapy additionally based on conservative therapy were assigned to an intervention group. The short-term (12 weeks after therapy) and long-term (3 years after therapy) clinical efficacies on the two groups were compared. Death, amputation, and vascular restenosis (vascular stenosis > 50% in computed tomography reexamination) were defined as unfavourable outcomes, and Cox regression was conducted to analyze the factors influencing the prognosis of patients. The incidence of adverse events in the two groups within 3 years was compared and statistically analyzed. Additionally, the hospital stay, therapy cost, claudication distance, and ankle brachial index were compared between the two groups.
RESULTS: After therapy, the conservative group showed a notably lower total effective rate than the intervention group (P &lt; 0.05), but the clinical efficacy after 3 years was similar between the two groups (P &gt; 0.05). Additionally, the conservative group experienced notably longer hospital stay than the intervention group (P &lt; 0.05), and cost less in treatment than the intervention group (P &lt; 0.05). However, the conservative group experienced a notably shorter claudication distance and showed a notably lower ankle brachial index than the intervention group (P &lt; 0.05). The two groups were not significantly different in mortality, amputation rate, and vascular restenosis rate (P &gt; 0.05). Moreover, Cox regression analysis revealed that age and conservative therapy were independent risk factors for the prognosis of patients (P &lt; 0.05).
CONCLUSION: Interventional therapy can substantially improve the short-term efficacy and prognosis of patients with LEASO, but the cost is high, so the therapeutic regimen should be selected according to the patient's economic condition.

Citation: Xiao D and Song J. Clinical Efficacy of Interventional Therapy on Lower Extremity Arteriosclerosis Obliterans and Prognostic Factors. Clinical Efficacy of Interventional Therapy on Lower Extremity Arteriosclerosis Obliterans and Prognostic Factors. 2022; 2022:9190292. doi: 10.1155/2022/9190292

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35966252/
