PMID: 35963458
Title: Endovascular navigation with Fiber Optic RealShape technology.

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: Fiber Optic RealShape (FORS) technology has recently been introduced as an adjunctive guidance technology that allows real-time three-dimensional visualization of dedicated endovascular devices while avoiding radiation exposure. It consists of equipment which sends pulses of light through hair-thin optical fibers that run within a dedicated hydrophilic wire and selective catheters. The purpose of the study was to report the observed benefits and limitations related to the first edition of FORS technology.
METHODS: Data were collected prospectively from the first 50 patients undergoing FORS-guided endovascular repair at a single center between February 2020 and February 2021 as part of the global multicenter FORS Learn registry. All consecutive, elective procedures with one or more navigation tasks attempted with FORS were included. Factors related to FORS navigation task success were assessed. The time required for the catheterization of each task as well as the amount of radiation exposure (fluoroscopy time, dose area product, and estimated skin dose) were collected. A per-task analysis was conducted. End points included the success rate in achieving a stable FORS-guided catheterization, catheterization time, and radiation dose during catheterization.
RESULTS: During the study period from February 2020 to February 2021, 50 patients were treated using FORS technology. Forty-five patients were treated for aortic aneurysm, 4 for iliac artery aneurysm, and 1 for splenic artery aneurysm. Overall, 201 navigation tasks were completed for these procedures and FORS was used in 186 tasks (92.5%). No FORS-related complication was recorded and a success rate of 60.2% (n = 116) was observed. Target vessel (TV) angle of 45° or greater, TV stenosis, and the renal arteries as navigation tasks (compared with celiac artery or superior mesenteric artery) were associated with a lower success rate. Catheterization of a TV through a branch more frequently required a standard catheter in combination with the FORS-enabled guidewire. Successful task catheterization using FORS guidance was associated with a shorter catheterization time 6 minutes (interquartile range, 3-11 minutes) versus 16 minutes (interquartile range, 10-24 minutes) (P &lt; .001) and lower radiation exposure compared with unsuccessful catheterization (dose area product, 4.4 cGy/cm2 vs 12.5 cGy/cm2; P &lt; .001).
CONCLUSIONS: FORS technology was implemented successfully as a new guidance technology in a complex endovascular aortic repair program and was associated with an encouraging success rate and a high potential for radiation reduction.

Citation: Panuccio G, et al. Endovascular navigation with Fiber Optic RealShape technology. Endovascular navigation with Fiber Optic RealShape technology. 2023; 77:3-8.e2. doi: 10.1016/j.jvs.2022.08.002

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35963458/
