PMID: 35976685
Title: Association between bifurcation angle of the left main coronary artery and severity of stenosis of the proximal left anterior descending artery.

Abstract: AIM: The aim of this study was to evaluate the association between the left main coronary artery (LM) bifurcation angle and the severity of the proximal left anterior descending coronary artery (LAD) stenosis.
METHODS: Two hundred patients with suspected coronary artery disease who had coronary angiography were included in this observational study. The severity of coronary artery stenosis was analysed using quantitative coronary angiography software (QCA analysis). The LM-LAD and LAD-left circumflex artery (LCX) angles were measured using software (IC MEASURE) in two-dimensional axial images.
RESULTS: The patients were divided into two groups. The first group included 100 patients with significant proximal LAD stenosis (≥ 50%) and the second, those with LAD stenosis &lt; 50% (100 patients). Patients with significant proximal LAD stenosis were older and had a higher frequency of diabetes mellitus, and higher serum creatinine and low-density lipoprotein levels than those with non-significant LAD stenosis. The LM-LAD and LAD-LCX angles in patients with significant proximal LAD stenosis were wider than in patients with non-significant LAD stenosis (p &lt; 0.001). The cut-off value of 42° of the LM-LAD angle had a sensitivity of 73% and specificity of 70% to predict significant proximal LAD stenosis. The cut-off value of 68° of the LAD-LCX angle had a sensitivity of 68% and specificity of 62% to predict significant proximal LAD disease. In a multivariate logistic regression analysis, LM-LAD and LAD-LCX angles were independent factors for the development of significant proximal LAD stenosis.
CONCLUSIONS: Wider LM-LAD and LAD-LCX angles were associated with the severity of proximal LAD disease. Preventative measures and close follow up are needed in such cases to improve their cardiovascular outcome.

Citation: Yahia M, et al. Association between bifurcation angle of the left main coronary artery and severity of stenosis of the proximal left anterior descending artery. Association between bifurcation angle of the left main coronary artery and severity of stenosis of the proximal left anterior descending artery. 2023; 34:93-97. doi: 10.5830/CVJA-2022-031

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35976685/
