PMID: 35970091
Title: A 3D printed pulmonary mock loop for hemodynamic studies in congenital heart disease.

Abstract: Background. With the increasing survival of the congenital heart disease population, there is a growing need for in-depth understanding of blood circulation in these patients. Mock loops provide the opportunity for comprehensive hemodynamic studies without burden and risks for patients. This study aimed to evaluate the ability of the presented mock loop to mimic the hemodynamics of the pulmonary circulation with and without stenosis and the MR compatibility of the system.Methods. A pulsatile pump with two chambers, separated by a flexible membrane, was designed and 3D printed. A cough assist device applied an alternating positive and negative pressure on the membrane. One adult, and three pediatric pulmonary bifurcations were 3D printed and incorporated in the setup. Two pediatric models had a 50% stenosis of the left branch. Bilateral compliance chambers allowed for individual compliance tuning. A reservoir determined the diastolic pressure. Two carbon heart valves guaranteed unidirectional flow. The positive pressure on the cough assist device was tuned until an adequate stroke volume was reached with a frequency of 60 bpm. Flow and pressure measurements were performed on the main pulmonary artery and the two branches. The MR compatibility of the setup was evaluated.Results. A stroke volume with a cardiac index of 2 l min-1m-2was achieved in all models. Physiological pressure curves were generated in both normal and stenotic models. The mock loop was MR compatible.Conclusion.This MR compatible mock loop, closely resembles the pulmonary circulation thereby providing a controllable environment for hemodynamic studies.

Citation: Conijn M, et al. A 3D printed pulmonary mock loop for hemodynamic studies in congenital heart disease. A 3D printed pulmonary mock loop for hemodynamic studies in congenital heart disease. 2022; 8:(unknown pages). doi: 10.1088/2057-1976/ac8993

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35970091/
