PMID: 35989489
Title: A simplified cardiac damage staging predicts the outcome of patients undergoing TAVR-A multicenter analysis.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: A significant number of patients with severe aortic stenosis (AS) undergoing transcatheter aortic valve replacement (TAVR) suffer from extra-aortic cardiac damage. Few studies have investigated strategies to quantify cardiac damage and stratify patients accordingly in different risk groups. The aim of this retrospective multicenter study was to provide a user-friendly simplified staging system based on the proposed classification system of Généreux et al. as a tool to evaluate the prognosis of patients undergoing TAVR more easily. Moreover, we analyzed changes in cardiac damage after TAVR.
METHODS: We assessed cardiac damage in patients, who underwent TAVR at the Heart Center Bonn or Düsseldorf, using pre- and postprocedural transthoracic echocardiography. Patients were assigned to the staging system proposed by Généreux et al. according to the severity of their baseline cardiac damage. Based on the established system, we created a simplified staging system to facilitate improved applicability. Finally, we compared clinical outcomes between the groups and evaluated changes in cardiac damage after TAVR.
RESULTS: A total of 933 TAVR patients were included in the study. We found a significant association between cardiac damage and 1-year all-cause mortality (stage 0: 0% vs. stage 1: 3% vs. stage 2: 6.6%; p &lt; 0.009). In multivariate analysis, cardiac damage was an independent predictor of 1-year all-cause mortality (hazard ratio: 2.0, 95% confidence interval: 1.1-3.8; p = 0.03).
CONCLUSIONS: In patients undergoing TAVR, cardiac damage is associated with enhanced mortality. A simplified staging system can help identify patients at high risk for an adverse outcome.

Citation: Shamekhi J, et al. A simplified cardiac damage staging predicts the outcome of patients undergoing TAVR-A multicenter analysis. A simplified cardiac damage staging predicts the outcome of patients undergoing TAVR-A multicenter analysis. 2022; 100:850-859. doi: 10.1002/ccd.30368

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35989489/
