PMID: 35983815
Title: Distal Urethral Advance and Glanduloplasty (DUAGPI) for Distal Hypospadias: A 15 Years Experience.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Meatal advancement with glanduloplasty (MAGPI) has been in the recent years one of the most frequently surgical techniques used for the correction of distal hypospadias. Multiple modifications have been described to improve the results ofthis technique. In 2004 we presented the initial results of the New Modern MAGPI or DUAGPI (distal urethral advancement and glanduloplasty) as a surgical alternative to the original MAGPI.
OBJETIVE: The objective of the present study is to evaluate the applicability, safety and the cosmetic results obtained with this technique, as well as the long-term complications.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Retrospective and descriptive study of patients with distal hypospadias, corrected using the DUAPI technique, between 2002 and 2018.
SURGICAL TECHNIQUE: Initially, an artificial erection was performed, the absence of curvature in all patients is proven. A skin denudation was performed up to the base of the penis in those children with a bend greater than 30. Second, the distal urethral disconnection was performed at the posterior and lateral urethral level. A glandular triangular section is made to accommodate the distal urethra and to allow a conical appearance with a final glandular. Finally, the fixation of the distal urethral to the glandular tip and the anterior glandular closure is performed. We performed an annual follow-up of all patients. The analysis of all the variables collected during surgery and follow-up was done with SPSS 22 statistical package.
RESULTS: 90 patients meet inclusion criteria and were included in the study (32 glandular and 58 coronal). The mean surgical time was 47 minutes (Range: 37-71 minutes). The mean follow-up was 9.4 years (2.1-15 years). 2 patients had meatal stenosis after surgery, 4 mild glandular retraction, and 2 urethrocutaneous fistula. Six of the 8 patients with a complication were successfully reoperated. 92% of the patients and their families were satisfied with the cosmetic result obtained after surgery (83 patients).
CONCLUSION: DUAGPI technique is simple, reproducible and optimal for most distal hypospadias. It is a safe technique, with a low complication rate. The final aesthetic result is satisfactory in most cases, with a conical glans and a natural cosmetic appearance.

Citation: Casal-Beloy I, et al. Distal Urethral Advance and Glanduloplasty (DUAGPI) for Distal Hypospadias: A 15 Years Experience. Distal Urethral Advance and Glanduloplasty (DUAGPI) for Distal Hypospadias: A 15 Years Experience. 2022; 75:435-440. doi: 10.56434/j.arch.esp.urol.20227505.63

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35983815/
