PMID: 35988427
Title: Gentianella acuta improves TAC-induced cardiac remodelling by regulating the Notch and PI3K/Akt/FOXO1/3 pathways.

Abstract: Cardiac remodelling mainly manifests as excessive myocardial hypertrophy and fibrosis, which are associated with heart failure. Gentianella acuta (G. acuta) is reportedly effective in cardiac protection; however, the mechanism by which it protects against cardiac remodelling is not fully understood. Here, we discuss the effects and mechanisms of G. acuta in transverse aortic constriction (TAC)-induced cardiac remodelling in rats. Cardiac function was analysed using echocardiography and electrocardiography. Haematoxylin and eosin, Masson's trichrome, and wheat germ agglutinin staining were used to observe pathophysiological changes. Additionally, real-time quantitative reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction and western blotting were used to measure protein levels and mRNA levels of genes related to myocardial hypertrophy and fibrosis. Immunofluorescence double staining was used to investigate the co-expression of endothelial and interstitial markers. Western blotting was used to estimate the expression and phosphorylation levels of the regulatory proteins involved in autophagy and endothelial-mesenchymal transition (EndMT). The results showed that G. acuta alleviated cardiac dysfunction and remodelling. The elevated levels of myocardial hypertrophy and fibrosis markers, induced by TAC, decreased significantly after G. acuta intervention. G. acuta decreased the expression of LC3 II and Beclin1, and increased p62 expression. G. acuta upregulated the expression of CD31 and vascular endothelial-cadherin, and prevented the expression of α-smooth muscle actin and vimentin. Furthermore, G. acuta inhibited the PI3K/Akt/FOXO1/3a pathway and activated the Notch signalling. These findings demonstrated that G. acuta has cardioprotective effects, such as alleviating myocardial fibrosis, inhibiting hypertrophy, reducing autophagy, and blocking EndMT by regulating the PI3K/Akt/FOXO1/3a and Notch signalling pathways.

Citation: Zhou WW, et al. Gentianella acuta improves TAC-induced cardiac remodelling by regulating the Notch and PI3K/Akt/FOXO1/3 pathways. Gentianella acuta improves TAC-induced cardiac remodelling by regulating the Notch and PI3K/Akt/FOXO1/3 pathways. 2022; 154:113564. doi: 10.1016/j.biopha.2022.113564

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35988427/
