PMID: 35983822
Title: First Case Described in the Medical Literature: Male Urethral Sarcoidosis. Description of a Case and Review of the Literature.

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: Although the sarcoidosis is a multisystemic disease that theoretically can affect almost any organ, the presence of sarcoidosis in the male urethra has not been described in the medical literature. We present the first male case of urethral sarcoidosis.
METHOD: A 46 years old male undergoing follow up due to lower urinary tract symptoms was diagnosed of endobronchial sarcoidosis during the preoperative study for internal urethrotomy. After surgery, he presented clinical improvement for one year. Given the worsening, a new internal urethrotomy was tried. As it was impossible due to complexity they took a biopsy of the urethra. The pathology report described non-caseating granulomas compatible with sarcoidosis. After that, medical and endoscopic management of the urethral sarcoidosis was attempted. As it didn't achieve an adequate control, the patient was derivate to the "complex urethral unit" of the Cruces University Hospital. Once it was valuated, it was decided to start immunotherapy and subsequently an urethroplasty with a double oral mucosa graft was performed.
OUTCOMES: During the postoperative period, a urethral catheter was maintained for two weeks. It was removed after no urinary leakage was observed in de cystourethrography. After that the patient remains with good evolution until today.
CONCLUSIONS: Urethral affectation by sarcoidosis is a therapeutic challenge itself. For a better symptom control and to reduce the recurrences, a dual approach using systemic treatment in combination with local surgical treatment seems necessary.

Citation: Aizcorbe Gómez M, et al. First Case Described in the Medical Literature: Male Urethral Sarcoidosis. Description of a Case and Review of the Literature. First Case Described in the Medical Literature: Male Urethral Sarcoidosis. Description of a Case and Review of the Literature. 2022; 75:476-479. doi: 10.56434/j.arch.esp.urol.20227505.70

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35983822/
