PMID: 35988165
Title: CoO Nanoparticles Combined with MRI: Analysis of No-Reflow in Patients with Acute ST-Segment Elevation Myocardial Infarction after PCI and the Effect of Coronary Nicorandil.

Abstract: Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) has become one of the most important medical imaging techniques in the clinic due to its high degree of soft tissue resolution and no radiation damage, and it plays an important role in the early diagnosis and treatment of tumors. This article mainly studies the analysis of no-reflow in patients with acute ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction after PCI and the effect of coronary nicorandil on CoO nanoparticles combined with MRI. In this paper, the synthesized water-soluble nanoparticles are dispersed in a 2% xanthan gum or agarose solution. In an MRI analyzer, the T1 value is tested with the inversion recovery sequence, and the T2 value is tested with the hard pulse CPMG sequence. The gyroscope imaging sequence performs T1-weighted and T2-weighted imaging tests. Calculated densitometry (QCA) was used to measure the stenosis of the coronary lesions, the length of the lesions and the diameter of the lumen before stent implantation. In order to facilitate the collection of urine samples, this article adopts the method of inserting a catheter to drain the patient for sampling. From the baseline state at the time of enrollment to 150 minutes after PCI, polyethylene containing 0.1% butylated hydroxyanisole is used. Urine samples were taken from the test tube every 30 minutes, a total of 6 times were collected, and the collected urine samples were stored in a low-temperature refrigerator at -80℃ for the final inspection. This paper uses calculation software to calculate the risk of death and death/myocardial infarction in the hospital and at 6 months after discharge. The data showed that the postoperatively detected CKMB and cTnI were higher than those before the operation, but the peak value of the nicorandil group was lower than that of the control group, but there was still no statistical difference (P>0.05). The results show that nicorandil can significantly improve the no-reflow phenomenon in AMI patients during PCI.

Citation: Liang X, et al. CoO Nanoparticles Combined with MRI: Analysis of No-Reflow in Patients with Acute ST-Segment Elevation Myocardial Infarction after PCI and the Effect of Coronary Nicorandil. CoO Nanoparticles Combined with MRI: Analysis of No-Reflow in Patients with Acute ST-Segment Elevation Myocardial Infarction after PCI and the Effect of Coronary Nicorandil. 2022; 68:390-401. doi: 10.14715/cmb/2022.68.3.43

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35988165/
