PMID: 35984476
Title: Full-endoscopic versus microscopic unilateral laminotomy for bilateral decompression of lumbar spinal stenosis at L4-L5: comparative study.

Abstract: PURPOSE: Full-endoscopic spine surgery for degenerative lumbar diseases is growing in popularity and has shown favourable outcomes. Lumbar endoscopic unilateral laminotomy for bilateral decompression (LE-ULBD) has been used to treat lumbar spinal stenosis (LSS). However, studies comparing LE-ULBD to microscopic ULBD are lacking. This study compared the clinical efficacy and radiological outcomes between the LE-ULBD and microscopic ULBD.
METHODS: The study retrospectively enrolled patients undergoing either LE-ULBD or microscopic ULBD for spinal stenosis at the L4-L5 level. The demographic data, operative details, radiological images, clinical outcomes, and complications of patients from the two groups were compared through matched-pairs analysis. The minimum follow-up duration was 24 months.
RESULTS: There were 93 patients undergoing either LE-ULBD (n = 42) or microscopic ULBD (n = 51). The patient demographics were similar between the two groups. The LE-ULBD group had significantly less estimated blood loss, less analgesic use, and shorter hospitalization duration (P < .05). The endoscopic group had a significantly lower visual analog scale for back pain at all follow-up intervals compared with the microscopic group (P < .05). There were no significant differences in leg pain or Oswestry Disability Index. The cross-section area of the spinal canal was significantly wider after microscopic ULBD. There were no significant differences in post-operative degenerative changes in disc height, translational motion, or facet preservation rate.
CONCLUSIONS: LE-ULBD is comparable in clinical and radiological outcomes with enhanced recovery for single-level LSS. The endoscopic approach might further minimize tissue injury and enhance post-operative recovery.

Citation: Chen KT, et al. Full-endoscopic versus microscopic unilateral laminotomy for bilateral decompression of lumbar spinal stenosis at L4-L5: comparative study. Full-endoscopic versus microscopic unilateral laminotomy for bilateral decompression of lumbar spinal stenosis at L4-L5: comparative study. 2022; 46:2887-2895. doi: 10.1007/s00264-022-05549-0

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35984476/
