PMID: 35986231
Title: Tuberculosis dissemination in kidney transplant recipient treated with anti-CD40 monoclonal antibody: a case report.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Tuberculosis (TBC) in solid organ transplant recipients represents a severe complication. The incidence among transplant recipients is higher than in the general population, and the diagnosis and treatment remain challenging. We present a case of active disseminated tuberculosis in a kidney transplant recipient treated with an anti-CD40 monoclonal antibody, who had been previously exposed to an active form of the disease, but latent tuberculosis (LTBI) was repeatedly ruled out prior to transplantation. To the best of our knowledge, no other case has been reported in a patient treated with the anti-CD40 monoclonal antibody.
CASE PRESENTATION: A 49-year-old patient, 1.5 years after primary kidney transplantation, presented with vocal cord problems, a dry irritating cough, and a sore throat. A detailed investigation, including a high-resolution chest CT scan, revealed the diagnosis of disseminated tuberculosis. The antituberculosis treatment consisting of rifampicin, isoniazid, pyrazinamide, and ethambutol was started immediately. The patient's condition became complicated by relapsing diarrhoea. The colonoscopy revealed a circular stenosis above Bauhin's valve. Microscopical findings showed active colitis and vaguely formed collections of epithelioid macrophages without fully developed caseous granulomas and were consistent with the clinical diagnosis of tuberculosis. The antituberculosis treatment was subsequently enhanced by moxifloxacin and led to a great improvement in the patient's condition.
CONCLUSION: In this case, false negativity of interferon-γ release assays and possibly higher risk for intracellular infections in patients on costimulatory signal blockers are discussed.

Citation: Bednarova K, et al. Tuberculosis dissemination in kidney transplant recipient treated with anti-CD40 monoclonal antibody: a case report. Tuberculosis dissemination in kidney transplant recipient treated with anti-CD40 monoclonal antibody: a case report. 2022; 23:290. doi: 10.1186/s12882-022-02916-2

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35986231/
