PMID: 35991264
Title: Comparison of Redo percutaneous mitral valvuloplasty for mitral restenosis with first procedure for de novo mitral stenosis.

Abstract: OBJECTIVES: To evaluate and compare the effects of redo percutaneous mitral valvuloplasty with initial percutaneous mitral valvuloplasty (PMV) in mitral restenosis (MR) and de novo mitral stenosis (MS) patients, respectively.
METHODS: A retrospective study was conducted at the cardiology department of Ch. Pervaiz Elahi Institute of Cardiology Multan for the period of one year from 6th July 2020 to 6th July 2021. A total of 50 patients were recruited in the study. Out of them, 20 de novo MS patients were placed in one group, while 30 patients with mitral restenosis, after successful initial percutaneous mitral valvuloplasty, were placed in another group. Ante grade trans-septal approach was adopted to perform percutaneous mitral valvuloplasty. The procedure was considered successful in achieving a 50% increase in the area of the mitral valve, without any major complication.
RESULTS: Procedural success in first PMV patients was more (18 patients; 90.0%) than in redo PMV patients (26 patients; 86.6%) (Non-significant). The patients in both groups didn't differ significantly in terms of MVA after the procedure, the increase of MVA, the average difference in blood pressure across the mitral valve, and the complications experienced after the complete procedure. However, the final mitral valve area was negatively correlated with the initial area in both groups.
CONCLUSION: Redo PMV for MR when performed after successful initial PMV is effective, has considerable rate of procedural success, which is achieved with a complication rate less as compared to initial PMV for de novo mitral stenosis.

Citation: Ramzan M, et al. Comparison of Redo percutaneous mitral valvuloplasty for mitral restenosis with first procedure for de novo mitral stenosis. Comparison of Redo percutaneous mitral valvuloplasty for mitral restenosis with first procedure for de novo mitral stenosis. 2022; 38:1575-1579. doi: 10.12669/pjms.38.6.5447

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35991264/
