PMID: 35990598
Title: Leaflet disruption of ViV-TAVI after bioprosthetic valve fracture leading to severe aortic regurgitation: a case report.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Valve-in-valve (ViV) transcatheter aortic valve implantation (TAVI) has emerged as an alternative for the treatment of degenerated bioprosthetic valves (BPVs) for high surgical risk patients. However, this procedure often results in patient-prosthesis mismatch. BPV fracture is a novel technique to address this problem. From now, complications following BPV fracture are few.
CASE SUMMARY: We present the case of a 84-year-old female with history of first surgical aortic BPV replacement with a Mitroflow Sorin 23 mm due to severe aotic stenosis in 2009. In 2017, a second intervention due to bioprosthetic aortic valve stenosis valve was performed with valve-in-valve TAVI with CoreValve Evolut R 23 mm. In 2021, she was admitted with severe heart failure due to TAVI degeneration with severe stenosis in the bioprothesis. After heart team discussions, the patient was deemed inoperable for new heart surgery and considered as a candidate for BPV fracture as last possible alternative. After BPV fracture was performed, the patient suffered acute hypotension. Urgent transoesophageal echocardiography and angiogram demonstrated severe acute intra-TAVI aortic insufficiency because of probable disruption of the CoreValve leaflets. The patient was successfully treated with a ViV 23 mm SAPIEN three Edwards valve with a resolution of the aortic insufficiency and improvement of her haemodynamics. The patient remains asymptomatic after 6 months, with improvement in clinical status.
DISCUSSION: This case demonstrates a disruption of the transcatheter heart valve leaflets causing severe aortic regurgitation as one of the complication of BPV fracture. To our knowledge, this is the first report of a TAVI in a patient who was already operated with ViV-TAVI. Although case series described few complications with improvement in clinical status, the procedure should be established with appropriate planning and careful technique.

Citation: Ballout E, et al. Leaflet disruption of ViV-TAVI after bioprosthetic valve fracture leading to severe aortic regurgitation: a case report. Leaflet disruption of ViV-TAVI after bioprosthetic valve fracture leading to severe aortic regurgitation: a case report. 2022; 6:ytac313. doi: 10.1093/ehjcr/ytac313

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35990598/
