PMID: 35991386
Title: Balloon-hooking technique for stabilizing a guiding catheter in tortuous supra-aortic vessel: A case report.

Abstract: Objective: When performing endovascular interventions for supra-aortic vessels, the tortuous vascular anatomy observed in patients with atherosclerotic lesions often limits the ability to maintain a stable guiding catheter position. Here, we report a case of right vertebral artery (VA) stenosis treated with transfemoral stenting and discuss the utility of balloon-hooking technique using partially inflated balloon for stabilizing the balloon guiding catheter (BCG) in the supra-aortic vessel. Case presentation: A 74-year-old man who underwent right carotid artery stenting, coronary artery bypass grafting, and bilateral iliac artery stenting was admitted to our emergency department because of dizziness related to head movement. Computed tomography angiography revealed right VA origin stenosis and left subclavian artery (SA) occlusion. The patient underwent stenting of the right VA. After several unsuccessful cannulation attempts into the right VA through transradial access, transfemoral access was obtained through the left iliac stent. A 9-Fr BGC was navigated into the right SA. The balloon was partially inflated just distal to the first curve of the right SA and used as hook by pulling back until the proximal edge of the balloon was pushed distally by the lesser curvature of the SA, resulting in stabilization of the BGC and successful angioplasty and stent deployment at the VA stenosis. The patient's symptoms resolved completely, without any neurological deficits. Conclusions: Balloon-hooking technique using a partially inflated BGC is feasible for stabilizing the guiding catheter in tortuous supra-aortic vessel.

Citation: Miyoshi K, et al. Balloon-hooking technique for stabilizing a guiding catheter in tortuous supra-aortic vessel: A case report. Balloon-hooking technique for stabilizing a guiding catheter in tortuous supra-aortic vessel: A case report. 2022; 17:3966-3970. doi: 10.1016/j.radcr.2022.07.086

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35991386/
