PMID: 35996162
Title: Distal sacral nerve roots severed by a fragility fracture of the sacrum: a case report.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Owing to the aging population, fragility fractures of the pelvis are occurring more frequently. Fixation of the fracture and stabilization of the pelvic ring usually provide good clinical results. A case of distal sacral nerve roots severed by a fragility fracture of the sacrum is presented.
CASE PRESENTATION: A 62-year-old Japanese woman with schizophrenia with low back pain, gait disorder, dysuria, and fecal incontinence presented to an emergency department, and plain X-rays showed no findings. She also complained of dysuria, and neurogenic bladder and cystitis were diagnosed. One month later, she was admitted to a psychiatric hospital for exacerbation of schizophrenia. In hospital, she had a urethral catheter inserted and spent 3 months in bed. She was referred to our orthopedic department because a gait disorder was discovered after her mental condition improved and she was permitted to walk. On examination, she could not walk and had decreased sensation from the buttocks to both posterior thighs and around the anus and perineum. Manual muscle testing of her lower limbs showed mild weakness of about 4 in bilateral flexor hallucis longus and gastrocnemius, and bilateral Achilles tendon reflexes were lost. Her anal sphincter did not contract, and urinary retention continued after urethral catheter removal. Imaging examinations showed an H-shaped sacral fracture consisting of a transverse fracture with displacement of the third sacral vertebra and vertical fractures of the bilateral sacral wings, with severe stenosis of the spinal canal at the site of the transverse fracture. The patient was diagnosed as having bladder and rectal dysfunction due to a displaced, unstable sacral fracture. First to third sacral laminectomy and alar-iliac fixation using percutaneous pedicle screws and sacral alar-iliac screws were then performed. The bilateral distal sacral nerve roots (S3, S4, S5) were completely severed at the second to third sacral levels, but bilateral second sacral nerve roots were not compressed from the bifurcation to the sacral foramen. Postoperatively, bladder and rectal dysfunction remained, but the low back pain was alleviated. Two weeks postoperatively, she could walk with a walker and was discharged. Three months after the operation, bone fusion of the fracture was observed.
CONCLUSIONS: In cases of bladder-rectal dysfunction with low back pain, the possibility of sacral fracture should be considered, and computed tomography, magnetic resonance imaging, and X-ray examinations should be performed. Even sacral fractures without displacement require attention because they can cause serious injury in the event of a nerve root being severed if not diagnosed early and given appropriate treatment.

Citation: Igarashi S, et al. Distal sacral nerve roots severed by a fragility fracture of the sacrum: a case report. Distal sacral nerve roots severed by a fragility fracture of the sacrum: a case report. 2022; 16:315. doi: 10.1186/s13256-022-03551-z

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35996162/
