PMID: 35994705
Title: Role of computed tomography in transcatheter replacement of 'other valves': a comprehensive review of preprocedural imaging.

Abstract: Transcatheter procedures for heart valve repair or replacement represent a valid alternative for treating patients who are inoperable or at a high risk for open-heart surgery. The transcatheter approach has become predominant over surgical intervention for aortic valve disease, but it is also increasingly utilized for diseases of the 'other valves', that is the mitral and, to a lesser extent, tricuspid and pulmonary valve. Preprocedural imaging is essential for planning the transcatheter intervention and computed tomography has become the main imaging modality by providing information that can guide the type of treatment and choice of device as well as predict outcome and prevent complications. In particular, preprocedural computed tomography is useful for providing anatomic details and simulating the effects of device implantation using 3D models. Transcatheter mitral valve replacement is indicated for the treatment of mitral regurgitation, either primary or secondary, and computed tomography is crucial for the success of the procedure. It allows evaluating the mitral valve apparatus, the surrounding structures and the left heart chambers, identifying the best access route and the landing zone and myocardial shelf, and predicting obstruction of the left ventricular outflow tract, which is the most frequent postprocedural complication. Tricuspid valve regurgitation with or without stenosis and pulmonary valve stenosis and regurgitation can also be treated using a transcatheter approach. Computer tomography provides information on the tricuspid and pulmonary valve apparatus, the structures that are spatially related to it and may be affected by the procedure, the right heart chambers and the right ventricular outflow tract.

Citation: Pugliese L, et al. Role of computed tomography in transcatheter replacement of 'other valves': a comprehensive review of preprocedural imaging. Role of computed tomography in transcatheter replacement of 'other valves': a comprehensive review of preprocedural imaging. 2022; 23:575-588. doi: 10.2459/JCM.0000000000001362

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35994705/
