PMID: 35993592
Title: Modelling and simulation of fluid flow through stenosis and aneurysm blood vessel: a computational hemodynamic analysis.

Abstract: In this article, the hemodynamics of nanofluid flow through the modelled stenosis-aneurysm models in the presence of the catheter has been studied. The eight stenosis-aneurysm models are developed to mimic biological observations and thus make the model more realistic. The mathematical understanding helps in treating the stenosis in the blood vessel by targeting the unhealthy region to the drug, which is coated on nanoparticles. The catheter achieves the active drug release to the aimed organs by coating on the catheter surface, which adds additional benefits. In the present hemodynamic study, the blood is modeled as a couple stress fluid; as a result, the highly non-linear momentum, temperature, and concentration equations were obtained. The fluid flow equations' complexity is further increased by incorporating the variable viscosity effects that arose due to the suspension of nanoparticles. The resultant mathematical model is solved by using the homotopy perturbation method. The convergence of the perturbed solutions is studied and depicted the degree of deformation in the case of temperature and concentration. The effects of the porous nature of the stenosis, no-slip at the catheter surface, and the free slip at the blood vessel boundary in the non-stenotic region are also considered in the model. The essential physiological property like surface shear stress is computed, and various parameters' influence on shear stress is analyzed. The present analysis can be helpful in understanding the enhancement in mass dispersion and heat transfer in unhealthy blood vessels, which could be used for drug delivery in the treatment of stenotic conditions.

Citation: Ramana Reddy JV, et al. Modelling and simulation of fluid flow through stenosis and aneurysm blood vessel: a computational hemodynamic analysis. Modelling and simulation of fluid flow through stenosis and aneurysm blood vessel: a computational hemodynamic analysis. 2023; 26:1160-1182. doi: 10.1080/10255842.2022.2112184

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35993592/
