PMID: 36002056
Title: Using Clinical Vignettes and a Modified Expert Delphi Panel to Determine Parameters for Identifying Non-Traumatic Spinal Cord Injury in Health Administrative and Electronic Medical Record Databases.

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: To obtain expert consensus on the parameters and etiologic conditions required to retrospectively identify cases of non-traumatic spinal cord injury (NTSCI) in health administrative and electronic medical record (EMR) databases based on the rating of clinical vignettes.
DESIGN: A modified Delphi process included 2 survey rounds and 1 remote consensus panel. The surveys required the rating of clinical vignettes, developed after chart reviews and expert consultation. Experts who participated in survey rounds were invited to participate in the Delphi Consensus Panel.
SETTING: An international collaboration using an online meeting platform.
PARTICIPANTS: Thirty-one expert physicians and/or clinical researchers in the field of spinal cord injury (SCI).
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE(S): Agreement on clinical vignettes as NTSCI. Parameters to classify cases of NTSCI in health administrative and EMR databases.
RESULTS: In health administrative and EMR databases, cauda equina syndromes should be considered SCI and classified as a NTSCI or TSCI based on the mechanism of injury. A traumatic event needs to be listed for injury to be considered TSCI. To be classified as NTSCI, neurologic sufficient impairments (motor, sensory, bowel, and bladder) are required, in addition to an etiology. It is possible to have both a NTSCI and a TSCI, as well as a recovered NTSCI. If information is unavailable or missing in health administrative and EMR databases, the case may be listed as "unclassifiable" depending on the purpose of the research study.
CONCLUSION: The Delphi panel provided guidelines to appropriately classify cases of NTSCI in health administrative and EMR databases.

Citation: Senthinathan A, et al. Using Clinical Vignettes and a Modified Expert Delphi Panel to Determine Parameters for Identifying Non-Traumatic Spinal Cord Injury in Health Administrative and Electronic Medical Record Databases. Using Clinical Vignettes and a Modified Expert Delphi Panel to Determine Parameters for Identifying Non-Traumatic Spinal Cord Injury in Health Administrative and Electronic Medical Record Databases. 2023; 104:63-73. doi: 10.1016/j.apmr.2022.08.002

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36002056/
