PMID: 36000361
Title: In Situ Laser Fenestration Technique: Bench-Testing of Aortic Endograft to Guide Clinical Practice.

Abstract: PURPOSE: In situ laser fenestration (ISLF) is a recently introduced technology that offers the potential to perform total endovascular treatment of aortic arch and thoracoabdominal aortic pathologies in the acute setting. This experiment's aim was to assess ISLF in some currently common aortic endografts and bridging stent-grafts.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Three different aortic endografts were evaluated: (1) Zenith Alpha, (2) Zenith TX2, and (3) Conformable GORE TAG. Each endograft was submerged in 37°C saline to create fenestrations using the 308 nm CVX-300 Excimer Laser System fitted with a 2.3 mm diameter Turbo-Elite laser atherectomy catheter compatible with a 0.018″ guidewire. Three different 8 mm bridging stent-grafts were evaluated: (1) BeGraft peripheral, (2) BeGraft peripheral plus, and (3) GORE VIABAHN VBX Balloon Expandable. All bridging stent-grafts were deployed and exposed to different balloon sizes and pressures. The ISLFs and bridging stent-grafts were then evaluated for any tears, stenoses, and seal.
RESULTS: A laser fenestration was consistently rapidly obtained in the Zenith Alpha and the Zenith TX2 endografts while it proved difficult to achieve a timely fenestration in the C-TAG. No fabric tears were noted in the Zenith Alpha and Zenith TX2 when inflating Armada (Abbott) 8 mm balloon in the fenestrations with pressures up to 15 atmospheres (rated burst pressure) nor when flaring bridging stent-grafts with balloons up to 12 mm in diameter at 10 atmospheres, while major tears were frequently noted in the C-TAG when the Armada 8 mm balloons were inflated. BeGraft Peripheral and BeGraft Peripheral Plus were all firmly attached to the fenestrations showing good seal on manual testing, while every sixth VBX bridging stent-graft displayed poorer attachment to the fenestration before dilatation at high pressure. Commonly, significant stenoses remained in the bridging stent-grafts after dilatation at nominal pressure, which could only be eradicated with high-pressure balloons.
CONCLUSION: In this limited bench-test, Dacron endografts responded well to the ISLF technology. Satisfactory deployment of the bridging stent was noted only after inflation and/or flaring with high-pressure balloons. Further work with different types of commercially-available bridging stent-grafts and endografts to assess the durability of in situ fenestration (ISF) and bridging stents in ISF is recommended.
CLINICAL IMPACT: This report on experimental in situ laser fenestration provide important insights for clinicians considering using in situ laser fenestration of aortic stentgrafts in vivo. In particular, different laser settings were tested together with a selection of aortic stentgrafts. Also, the target pressure needed in PTA balloons to dilate the fenestrations and any subsequent tears in the fabric were noted. This was followed by deployment of assorted balloon-expandable stentgrafts with estimation of residual stenosis and seal.

Citation: Grima MJ, et al. In Situ Laser Fenestration Technique: Bench-Testing of Aortic Endograft to Guide Clinical Practice. In Situ Laser Fenestration Technique: Bench-Testing of Aortic Endograft to Guide Clinical Practice. 2024; 31:126-131. doi: 10.1177/15266028221119315

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36000361/
