PMID: 36005853
Title: Neointimal hyperplasia in systemic-to-pulmonary shunts of children with complex cyanotic congenital heart disease.

Abstract: OBJECTIVES: Neointimal hyperplasia might affect systemic-to-pulmonary shunt failure in infants with complex cyanotic congenital heart disease. The aim of this study was to elucidate histopathologic changes in polytetrafluoroethylene shunts and to determine whether increased neointimal formation is associated with early interventions comprising balloon dilatation, stent implantation and shunt revision. Furthermore, we intended to identify clinical factors associated with increased neointimal proliferation.
METHODS: Removed shunts were processed for histopathological analysis. Slides were stained with hematoxylin/eosin and Richardson. Immunohistochemistry was performed with anti-alpha-smooth muscle actin and anti-CD68. Non-parametric analysis and univariable regressions were performed to identify clinical factors associated with neointimal hyperplasia and shunt stenosis.
RESULTS: Fifty-seven shunts (39 modified Blalock-Taussig anastomosis, 8 right ventricle-to-pulmonary artery anastomosis, 10 central shunts) were analysed. Area of neointimal proliferation within the shunt was in median 0.75 mm2 (interquartile range, 0.3-1.57 mm2) and relative shunt stenosis in median 16.7% (interquartile range, 6.7-30.8%). Neointimal hyperplasia and shunt stenosis correlated with each other and were significantly greater in the group that required early interventions and shunt revision. Univariable linear regression identified smaller shunt size and lower acetylsalicylic acid dosage as factors to be associated with greater neointimal proliferation and shunt stenosis.
CONCLUSIONS: In infants with complex cyanotic congenital heart disease, neointimal hyperplasia in systemic-to-pulmonary shunts is associated with early interventions comprising balloon dilatation, stent implantation and shunt revision. Smaller shunt size and lower aspirin dosage are associated with increased neointimal proliferation.

Citation: Kottmann P, et al. Neointimal hyperplasia in systemic-to-pulmonary shunts of children with complex cyanotic congenital heart disease. Neointimal hyperplasia in systemic-to-pulmonary shunts of children with complex cyanotic congenital heart disease. 2022; 62:(unknown pages). doi: 10.1093/ejcts/ezac431

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36005853/
