PMID: 36008762
Title: Cervical cord reperfusion injury: a rare complication of spine surgery.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Anterior cervical discectomy and fusion procedure has been considered the surgical procedure of choice for the management of degenerative cervical myelopathy. Postoperative paresis is one of the most serious and concerning complications. The occurrence of such complications without any clear anatomic explanation (e.g., epidural hematoma) is unusual.
CASE PRESENTATION: A 62-year-old man underwent cervical spine decompression via the anterior approach for marked central canal stenosis and spinal cord compression due to degenerative changes. The operation was performed under neuromonitoring, and a complete discectomy for the levels C3/C4, C5/C6, and C6/C7 was performed. Fluoroscopy confirmed the correct placement of the inserted plates and screws. No motor or sensory deficits were evident after postoperative recovery. However, 1 day later, the patient experienced progressive weakness in his both upper and lower extremities. A whole spine MRI study was performed to exclude epidural hematoma as the possible etiology. Although no localized fluid collection or hematoma was observed, the study demonstrated abnormal signal intensity in the spinal cord on T2-weighted images at the levels C5 to C7. Such findings were consistent with changes in cord reperfusion syndrome. The patient was administered intravenous methylprednisolone therapy. Gradual improvement in the muscle power in his both extremities was noted, and the patient was discharged with a satisfactory outcome. One month later, the MRI study was repeated and showed regression of the previously seen high T2 signal intensity in the cervical spine.
CONCLUSION: Cervical cord reperfusion injury is an extremely rare etiology of neurological deterioration following spinal cord decompressive surgeries. Clinicians need to maintain a high index of suspicion for this complication and should be familiar with its imaging appearance.

Citation: Hasan W, et al. Cervical cord reperfusion injury: a rare complication of spine surgery. Cervical cord reperfusion injury: a rare complication of spine surgery. 2022; 15:39. doi: 10.1186/s12245-022-00443-3

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36008762/
