PMID: 36007798
Title: A systematic review on nutcracker syndrome and proposed diagnostic algorithm.

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: Nutcracker syndrome (NCS) is an increasingly recognized venous compressive disease. Although people with NCS can experience debilitating symptoms, making an accurate diagnosis can often be challenging owing to the broad spectrum of clinical presentations and radiologic findings. In the present systematic review, we assessed the most frequent clinical and radiologic criteria used in establishing a diagnosis of NCS and have proposed a comprehensive framework for clinical decision-making.
METHODS: We performed a systematic review to identify all observational studies or case series conducted within the previous 10 years that had studied patients with a clinical and radiologic diagnosis of NCS. The extracted data included details related to the study design, participant demographics, presenting clinical features, and radiologic criteria. These details were compared between studies and synthesized to establish a comprehensive diagnostic framework that would be applicable to clinical practice.
RESULTS: In the present review, we included 14 studies with a total of 384 patients with NCS. The most common clinical features of NCS were hematuria (69.5%), left flank or abdominal pain (48.4%), pelvic pain (23.1%), and varicocele (15.8%). Computed tomography and ultrasound were the most commonly used imaging modalities, with a threshold for left renal vein stenosis of >80% the most frequently used diagnostic parameter. Eight studies had used venography, with the renocaval pressure gradient the most commonly measured parameter. Two studies had reported using intravascular ultrasound. The findings from our review have shown that a thorough clinical workup of NCS should include critical evaluation of the presenting clinical features and exclusion of alternative diagnoses. All patients should undergo duplex ultrasound with or without the addition of computed tomography or magnetic resonance imaging. Any patient considered for therapeutic intervention should also undergo diagnostic venography with measurement of the renocaval pressure gradient and, if available, intravascular ultrasound with measurement of the left renal vein diameters.
CONCLUSIONS: NCS is a challenging condition in terms of the diagnosis and management both. We have proposed a comprehensive diagnostic framework based on the currently available literature to aid in clinical decision-making.

Citation: Nastasi DR, et al. A systematic review on nutcracker syndrome and proposed diagnostic algorithm. A systematic review on nutcracker syndrome and proposed diagnostic algorithm. 2022; 10:1410-1416. doi: 10.1016/j.jvsv.2022.08.003

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36007798/
