PMID: 36013354
Title: Gamma Knife Radiosurgery for Indirect Dural Carotid-Cavernous Fistula: Long-Term Ophthalmological Outcome.

Abstract: Objective: The leading treatment option for dural carotid−cavernous sinus fistula is an endovascular approach with immediate improvement. Alternatively, radiosurgery is a slow response for obliterating the fistula and poses a radiation risk to the optic apparatus and the associated cranial nerves and blood vessels. In this study, we retrieved cases from a prospective database to assess the ophthalmological outcomes and complications in treating dural carotid cavernous sinus fistula with gamma knife radiosurgery (GKRS). Material and Methods: We retrieved a total of 65 cases of carotid cavernous sinus fistula treated with GKRS with margin dose of 18−20 Gy from 2003 to 2018 and reviewed the ophthalmological records required for our assessment. Results: The mean target volume was 2 ± 1.43 cc. The onset of symptom alleviated after GKRS was 3.71 ± 7.68 months. There were two cases with residual chemosis, two with cataract, two with infarction, one with transient optic neuropathy, and four with residual cranial nerve palsy, but none with glaucoma or dry eyes. In MRA analysis, total obliteration of the fistula was noted in 64 cases with no detectable ICA stenosis nor cavernous sinus thrombosis. In the Cox regression analysis, post-GKRS residual cranial nerve palsy was highly correlated to targeted volume (p < 0.05) and age (p < 0.05). The occurrence of post-GKRS cataract was related to the initial symptom of chemosis (p < 0.05). Conclusion: GKRS for carotid cavernous sinus fistula offers a high obliteration rate and preserves the cavernous sinus vascular structure while conferring a low risk of treatment complications such as adverse radiation risk to the optic apparatus and adjacent cranial nerves.

Citation: Shen CC, et al. Gamma Knife Radiosurgery for Indirect Dural Carotid-Cavernous Fistula: Long-Term Ophthalmological Outcome. Gamma Knife Radiosurgery for Indirect Dural Carotid-Cavernous Fistula: Long-Term Ophthalmological Outcome. 2022; 12:(unknown pages). doi: 10.3390/life12081175

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36013354/
