PMID: 36018053
Title: Intravenous tocilizumab for Takayasu arteritis with aortic aneurysms, bilateral renal artery stenosis, and atypical aortic coarctation in a 2-year-old girl.

Abstract: Takayasu arteritis (TAK) is classified as large vessel vasculitis, and continuous inflammation of the vessel results in aneurysm or stenosis, which leads to various serious complications. Recently, a TAKT [TAK treated with tocilizumab (TCZ)] study showed that subcutaneous TCZ, a humanised anti-interleukin-6 receptor monoclonal antibody, is an effective treatment in patients with TAK above 12 years of age; however, the effectiveness of TCZ for juvenile TAK under 12 years old remains unclear. Here, we described the case of a 2-year-old girl with TAK, which was successfully treated with intravenous TCZ. She was diagnosed with TAK type V (Numano's angiographic classification system) with aortic aneurysms, bilateral renal arteries stenosis, and atypical descending aortic coarctation based on contrast-enhanced computed tomography findings. Treatment was started with 2 mg/kg/day prednisolone (PSL) and methotrexate instead of methylprednisolone pulse due to renovascular hypertension. She was immediately afebrile and her C-reactive protein level decreased, although it was elevated 4 weeks after starting PSL. Intravenous TCZ of 8 mg/kg/2 weeks was added because the progression of aneurysms or stenosis might lead to a poor prognosis. PSL was steadily reduced under intravenous TCZ. Magnetic resonance imaging showed that aortic aneurysms, renal arteries stenosis, and aortic coarctation ameliorated 4 months after starting TCZ, with the amelioration maintained at 1 year after starting TCZ. Aneurysms and stenosis improved; therefore, TCZ may be effective for the treatment of inflammation of vessels, aneurysms, and stenosis. It is desirable to examine the effect of TCZ on TAK patients under 12 years of age.

Citation: Fujita Y, et al. Intravenous tocilizumab for Takayasu arteritis with aortic aneurysms, bilateral renal artery stenosis, and atypical aortic coarctation in a 2-year-old girl. Intravenous tocilizumab for Takayasu arteritis with aortic aneurysms, bilateral renal artery stenosis, and atypical aortic coarctation in a 2-year-old girl. 2023; 7:160-165. doi: 10.1093/mrcr/rxac068

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36018053/
