PMID: 36013458
Title: Retinal Infarction: A Pilot Study on the Efficacy and Safety of Intravenous Thrombolysis and Underlying Aetiologies.

Abstract: Background: Treatment of non-arteritic central retinal artery occlusion is still inconsistent. Therefore, the current study aimed to evaluate the efficacy of intravenous thrombolysis (IVT) and describe the prevalence of co-occurring ischemic brain lesions in patients with acute visual loss due to ischemia. Methods: We analysed 38 consecutive patients with acute visual loss between January 2015 and June 2020. Patients presenting within 4.5 h of symptom onset without any contraindication were treated with IVT. Patients underwent neurologic and ophthalmologic examination and diagnostic workup for the underlying aetiology. Follow-up was performed after 3 and 12 months. Results: Patients treated with IVT had a significantly better functional outcome at discharge compared to patients treated conservatively. No additional ischemic brain lesions were detected (0 of 38). Three patients had extracranial carotid artery stenosis ≥50%. Atrial fibrillation was present in four patients, three of whom already received oral anticoagulation. In the remaining 31 patients no embolic source was detected. However, the number of plaques were rated mild to moderate. Within three months, one patient developed transient visual loss while another suffered a contralateral transient ischemic attack. Conclusions: IVT may represent a safe and effective treatment option in patients with isolated visual loss due to ischemia. The aetiology was atherosclerotic burden rather than embolism caused by carotid stenosis or atrial fibrillation, bringing the current diagnostic procedure and therapy into question. Randomized trials are necessary to evaluate the efficacy and safety of IV thrombolysis and clarify the aetiology of isolated visual loss due to ischemia.

Citation: Schönecker S, et al. Retinal Infarction: A Pilot Study on the Efficacy and Safety of Intravenous Thrombolysis and Underlying Aetiologies. Retinal Infarction: A Pilot Study on the Efficacy and Safety of Intravenous Thrombolysis and Underlying Aetiologies. 2022; 12:(unknown pages). doi: 10.3390/life12081279

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36013458/
