PMID: 36010232
Title: Accurately Identifying Cerebroarterial Stenosis from Angiography Reports Using Natural Language Processing Approaches.

Abstract: Patients with intracranial artery stenosis show high incidence of stroke. Angiography reports contain rich but underutilized information that can enable the detection of cerebrovascular diseases. This study evaluated various natural language processing (NLP) techniques to accurately identify eleven intracranial artery stenosis from angiography reports. Three NLP models, including a rule-based model, a recurrent neural network (RNN), and a contextualized language model, XLNet, were developed and evaluated by internal-external cross-validation. In this study, angiography reports from two independent medical centers (9614 for training and internal validation testing and 315 as external validation) were assessed. The internal testing results showed that XLNet had the best performance, with a receiver operating characteristic curve (AUROC) ranging from 0.97 to 0.99 using eleven targeted arteries. The rule-based model attained an AUROC from 0.92 to 0.96, and the RNN long short-term memory model attained an AUROC from 0.95 to 0.97. The study showed the potential application of NLP techniques such as the XLNet model for the routine and automatic screening of patients with high risk of intracranial artery stenosis using angiography reports. However, the NLP models were investigated based on relatively small sample sizes with very different report writing styles and a prevalence of stenosis case distributions, revealing challenges for model generalization.

Citation: Lin CH, et al. Accurately Identifying Cerebroarterial Stenosis from Angiography Reports Using Natural Language Processing Approaches. Accurately Identifying Cerebroarterial Stenosis from Angiography Reports Using Natural Language Processing Approaches. 2022; 12:(unknown pages). doi: 10.3390/diagnostics12081882

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36010232/
