PMID: 36038469
Title: Ten Years of Percutaneous Pulmonary Valve Implantation in Australia and New Zealand.

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: This study sought to investigate the characteristics, morbidity (including the rate of infective endocarditis and valve replacement) and mortality of individuals undergoing percutaneous pulmonary valve implantation in Australia and New Zealand since the procedure has been performed.
BACKGROUND: The outcomes of percutaneous pulmonary valve implantation in Australia and New Zealand have not been evaluated. Recent international data, including patients from New Zealand, suggests the rate of infective endocarditis is not insignificant.
METHODS: A retrospective multi-site cohort study was undertaken via medical record review at the centres where percutaneous pulmonary valve implantation has been performed. All procedures performed from 2009-March 2018 were included. Individuals were identified from local institution databases. Data was collected and analysed including demographics, details at the time of intervention, haemodynamic outcome, post procedure morbidity and mortality. Multi-site ethics approval was obtained.
RESULTS: One hundred and seventy-nine (179) patients attended the cardiac catheter laboratory for planned percutaneous pulmonary valve implantation. Of these patients, 172 underwent successful implantation. Tetralogy of Fallot and pulmonary atresia were the most common diagnoses. The median age at procedure was 19 years (range 3-60 yrs). There was a significant improvement in the acute haemodynamics in patients undergoing percutaneous pulmonary valve implantation for stenosis. Seven (7) patients (3.9%) experienced a major procedural/early post procedure complication (death, conversion to open procedure, cardiac arrest), including two deaths. The annualised rates of infective endocarditis and valve replacement were 4.6% and 3.8% respectively. There was one death related to infective endocarditis in follow-up.
CONCLUSIONS: Percutaneous pulmonary valve replacement is a relatively safe method of rehabilitating the right ventricular outflow tract.

Citation: Lawley CM, et al. Ten Years of Percutaneous Pulmonary Valve Implantation in Australia and New Zealand. Ten Years of Percutaneous Pulmonary Valve Implantation in Australia and New Zealand. 2022; 31:1649-1657. doi: 10.1016/j.hlc.2022.07.008

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36038469/
