PMID: 36039233
Title: Clinical Reporting of Magnetic Resonance Imaging, the Way Forward for Patients With Lumbar Disc Herniation: A Prospective Correlational Study.

Abstract: Background Lower back pain (LBP) is a major cause of increasing years lived with disability. Many adults suffer from LBP once in their lifetime. Multiple environmental, genetic, and acquired factors lead to disc degeneration. Spinal stenosis can be caused due to bony, ligamentous, or discogenic origin. The majority of cases have a combined etiology of bony, ligamentous, and disc disease. Lumbar disc disease (LDD) has been mentioned by various terminologies in the literature. A standardized nomenclature is needed for better research and communication. Our study is based on the correlation between lumbar disc herniation (LDH) and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) findings. Methodology A prospective observational study was undertaken on patients presenting with signs and symptoms suggestive of LDD to the Department of Orthopaedics at a tertiary care hospital in southern Rajasthan. The purposive sampling technique with a consecutive scheme was used. MRI is a valuable tool for diagnosing LDH. Results Many studies have concluded false-positive results for MRI in cases of LDH. Hence, interpretation with grading systems (Pfirrmann's and Scizas grading) and correlation with clinical findings are mandatory for accurate diagnosis and management of patients. Conclusions We suggest clinicians adopt clinical reporting of MRI to improve the diagnostic accuracy with clinical and radiological correlation. Reporting can guide professionals in deciding the course of treatment in the form of conservative or surgical management.

Citation: Saini R, et al. Clinical Reporting of Magnetic Resonance Imaging, the Way Forward for Patients With Lumbar Disc Herniation: A Prospective Correlational Study. Clinical Reporting of Magnetic Resonance Imaging, the Way Forward for Patients With Lumbar Disc Herniation: A Prospective Correlational Study. 2022; 14:e27232. doi: 10.7759/cureus.27232

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36039233/
