PMID: 36036406
Title: [Cerebrovascular complications in patients with moderate and small stenosis of the carotid arteries in the hospital period of coronary artery bypass grafting using cardiopulmonary bypass].

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: Assessment of the incidence of acute cerebral circulatory disorder (ACCD) and decompensation of chronic cerebral ischemia (CCI) in the hospital period of coronary artery bypass graft performed using artificial circulation in patients with- and without moderate and minor carotid artery stenosis.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: One hundred and twenty-eight patients were examined. Neurological and neuropsychological examinations, neuroimaging were performed, concentrations of S100ß protein in blood serum were determined.
RESULTS: In the group with stenosis, 3.5% of patients were diagnosed with ACCD, while patients without carotid artery damage did not have this complication. The frequency of decompensation of CCI in patients with stenosis was significantly higher (52%) compared with the group without stenosis (34%). Early postoperative cognitive dysfunction (POCD) with an equally high frequency was diagnosed in both groups: 63% with stenosis and 65% without carotid artery stenosis. A decrease in the strength and mobility of nervous processes, deterioration of memory, workability and increased exhaustion of attention were revealed.
CONCLUSION: Patients with moderate and minor stenoses are more susceptible to the development of cerebrovascular complications than patients who do not have atherosclerotic lesions of the carotid arteries and need more thorough preoperative preparation.

Citation: Syrova ID, et al. [Cerebrovascular complications in patients with moderate and small stenosis of the carotid arteries in the hospital period of coronary artery bypass grafting using cardiopulmonary bypass]. [Cerebrovascular complications in patients with moderate and small stenosis of the carotid arteries in the hospital period of coronary artery bypass grafting using cardiopulmonary bypass]. 2022; 122:73-79. doi: 10.17116/jnevro202212208173

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36036406/
