PMID: 36032204
Title: Stent implantation in a patient with non-hemorrhagic vertebral artery dissection associated with severe, continuously progressive stenosis in the posterior inferior cerebellar artery bifurcation region: A case report.

Abstract: Generally, the prognosis of non-hemorrhagic vertebral artery dissection is good. Treatment should be considered when stenosis progresses or when an aneurysm is formed. However, no clear treatment policy has been established. The purpose of this case report was to describe the treatment policy for non-hemorrhagic onset vertebral artery dissection with severe stenosis around the posterior inferior cerebellar artery (PICA) bifurcation and aneurysm, where stent placement in the vertebral artery was difficult. This report describes healing without complications with stent implantation in the PICA performed to treat non-hemorrhagic vertebral artery dissection with associated severe, continuously progressive stenosis in the PICA bifurcation region. A 36-year-old woman was examined at the authors' hospital for persistent pain in the left posterior neck. Left vertebral arteriography revealed stenosis due to dissection around the PICA bifurcation and aneurysm formation at the distal position. Due to the progression of stenosis, there were concerns about PICA occlusion, and stent implantation in the vertebral artery was performed via the PICA. Neck pain ceased immediately after surgery, and 3 months later, cerebral angiography showed favorable patency of the PICA and decreased aneurysm size. This case suggests that stent implantation in the PICA might be a useful treatment option for non-hemorrhagic vertebral artery dissection with associated severe stenosis in the PICA bifurcation region.

Citation: Nishino A, et al. Stent implantation in a patient with non-hemorrhagic vertebral artery dissection associated with severe, continuously progressive stenosis in the posterior inferior cerebellar artery bifurcation region: A case report. Stent implantation in a patient with non-hemorrhagic vertebral artery dissection associated with severe, continuously progressive stenosis in the posterior inferior cerebellar artery bifurcation region: A case report. 2022; 17:4001-4005. doi: 10.1016/j.radcr.2022.07.114

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36032204/
