PMID: 36038733
Title: Esophageal Stents for the Management of Benign Esophageal Strictures in Children and Adolescents: A Systematic Review of Observational Studies.

Abstract: Little is known about the efficacy and safety of esophageal stents for the management of esophageal strictures in children and adolescents. A systematic review was performed to assess the efficacy and safety of esophageal stents for the management of benign esophageal strictures in children and adolescents. Observational studies related to the examination of esophageal stents in pediatrics were extracted using the original databases by December 2021. We found 18 retrospective and prospective studies with a total of 340 children and adolescents. Overall, our findings show that different therapeutic modalities based on esophageal stents were offered to children and adolescents for various indications, in which most studies reported successful cases, although ineffective claims cannot be ignored. Fully covered self-expandable metal stent, self-expandable metal stent, and silastic esophageal stent were the stent types most used, although different materials and prototypes were reported as well. The number of stents used per patient and the duration of the stenting therapy varied widely (ranging from 1 to 584 days). Such treatments were not standardized because of different factors, such as different tolerance to complications in subjects aged 1 month and 16 years, frequent stent migration requiring removal followed or not by its replacement, different guides provided by each stent manufacturer, and successful healing of esophageal lesions. Different esophageal stents may be a reasonable therapeutic approach for the management of benign esophageal strictures in children and adolescents. We believe that esophagus-sparing methods like stents represent a promising alternative or adjunctive treatment to be considered in pediatrics.

Citation: Sohouli MH, et al. Esophageal Stents for the Management of Benign Esophageal Strictures in Children and Adolescents: A Systematic Review of Observational Studies. Esophageal Stents for the Management of Benign Esophageal Strictures in Children and Adolescents: A Systematic Review of Observational Studies. 2023; 38:744-755. doi: 10.1007/s00455-022-10511-8

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36038733/
