PMID: 36031704
Title: The assessment of lower extremity peripheral artery disease impact on body mass center disorders.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Lower extremity peripheral artery disease is a problem of contemporary medicine and along with the ischemic heart disease it is considered to be a civilization disease. The risk of the disease increases significantly within a group of people reaching the age of 55 years and is closely related to co-occurring hazardous factors, such as diabetes, hyperlipidemia, hypertension or tobacco smoking. The first symptom reported by patients is intermittent claudication. Such symptoms may indicate that lower extremity peripheral artery disease does have an impact on posture disorders and motor skills.
METHODS: The study covered four stages. The first stage involved medical interviews to obtain information regarding anthropometry, age, motor organ surgery, concomitant diseases and the lifestyle. In the following stage the value of the ankle brachial index for both lower limbs were calculated. In case of symptomatic patients, additionally, the location of artery stenosis/aortoiliac section, was verified. The third stage involved using a dynamometric platform for determination of the body mass center position for both studied groups. In the fourth stage a treadmill walk test was used to assess the participants for intermittent claudication.
FINDINGS: Based on the obtained results, an attempt was taken to observe the relationship between the clinical characteristics of the disease and the body mass center position deviations.
INTERPRETATION: The attempt was undertaken to assess whether the measurement of body mass center position might be a diagnostic parameter to evaluate the patient's condition and thus an indication for taking a decision for surgical treatment or rehabilitation.

Citation: Słomion M, et al. The assessment of lower extremity peripheral artery disease impact on body mass center disorders. The assessment of lower extremity peripheral artery disease impact on body mass center disorders. 2022; 99:105742. doi: 10.1016/j.clinbiomech.2022.105742

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36031704/
