PMID: 36038851
Title: Clip-guided local duodenectomy for safe and minimal local resection of nonampullary duodenal neoplasms.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Local duodenectomy and primary closure is a simple option for some nonampullary duodenal neoplasms. Minimizing the resection area while ensuring curability is necessary for safe primary duodenal closure. However, it is often difficult to determine the appropriate resection line from the serosal side. We developed clip-guided local duodenectomy to easily determine the resection range and perform local duodenectomy safely, then performed a retrospective observational study to confirm the safety of clip-guided local duodenectomy.
METHODS: The procedure is as follows: placing endoscopic metal clips at four points on the margin around the tumor within 3 days before surgery, identifying the tumor extent with the clips under X-ray imaging during surgery, making an incision to the duodenum just outside of the clips visualized by X-ray imaging, full-thickness resection of the duodenum with the clips as guides of tumor demarcation, and transversely closure by Gambee suture. We evaluated clinicopathological data and surgical outcomes of patients who underwent clip-guided local duodenectomy at two surgical centers between January 2010 and May 2020.
RESULTS: Eighteen patients were included. The pathological diagnosis was adenoma (11 cases), adenocarcinoma (6 cases), and GIST (1 case). The mean ± SD tumor size was 18 ± 6 mm, and the tumor was mainly located in the second portion of the duodenum (66%). In all cases, the duodenal defect was closed with primary sutures. The mean operation time and blood loss were 191 min and 79 mL, respectively. The morbidity was 22%, and all complications were Clavien-Dindo grade II. No anastomotic leakage or stenosis was observed. In the 6 adenocarcinoma patients, all were diagnosed with pT1a, and postoperative recurrence was not observed. The 1-year overall and recurrence free survival rate was 100%.
CONCLUSIONS: Clip-guided local duodenectomy is a safe and useful surgical option for minimally local resection of nonampullary duodenal neoplasms such as duodenal adenoma, GIST, and early adenocarcinoma.

Citation: Miwa T, et al. Clip-guided local duodenectomy for safe and minimal local resection of nonampullary duodenal neoplasms. Clip-guided local duodenectomy for safe and minimal local resection of nonampullary duodenal neoplasms. 2022; 22:328. doi: 10.1186/s12893-022-01771-0

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36038851/
