PMID: 36038062
Title: Laparoscopic Triple-tourniquet Constriction: A Convenient Way for Minimizing Blood Loss during Myomectomy.

Abstract: STUDY OBJECTIVE: Although a pericervical tourniquet helped reduce blood loss in myomectomy [1], a technique of triple tourniquets was more influential in occluding the uterine vessel networks [2,3]. This video demonstrates the procedures of laparoscopic triple-tourniquet constriction with the number 1 suture around the uterine isthmic portion and bilateral infundibulopelvic ligaments [4] in a case of robotic myomectomy.
DESIGN: A step-by-step, narrated video demonstration.
SETTING: A university hospital.
INTERVENTIONS: Robotic myomectomy was scheduled for a patient with menorrhagia. Magnetic resonance imaging revealed 8 uterine myomas; the maximal one was 9.1 × 8.4 × 8.6 cm in dimension. Our robotic settings included 3 ports: fenestrated bipolar in the left lower quadrant, spatula or mega needle holder in the right lower quadrant, and an umbilical glove port accessible for lens and assisted instruments. A number 1 Monocryl (Ethicon, Bridgewater, NJ) was introduced from the suprapubic area extracorporeally; then, the needle penetrated through bilateral avascular zones of broad ligaments at the isthmic level and with a sliding tie made anteriorly to the uterus. The isthmic tourniquet-we also named it as the hangman's tourniquet-was tightened by manually tensioning the suture extracorporeally and pushing down the knot intracorporeally. Bilateral infundibulopelvic tourniquets were placed by using sliding ties of 1-0 Monocryl as well. With the total occlusion of uterine vessel networks, the uterus should retain only minimal blood flow. During the enucleation of uterine myomas, the tourniquet may loosen because of newly developed, unoccupied space with increasing bleeding; therefore, the tourniquet should be tightened up regularly throughout the surgery. After the repair of all the uterine wounds, we removed the 3 tourniquets.
CONCLUSION: The convenient and adjustable triple-tourniquet constriction is a safe and feasible laparoscopic technique to block the vessel networks temporally in uterine-preserving surgery.

Citation: Kuo HH, et al. Laparoscopic Triple-tourniquet Constriction: A Convenient Way for Minimizing Blood Loss during Myomectomy. Laparoscopic Triple-tourniquet Constriction: A Convenient Way for Minimizing Blood Loss during Myomectomy. 2022; 29:1219-1220. doi: 10.1016/j.jmig.2022.08.009

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36038062/
