PMID: 36030181
Title: Systematic Review of Comparisons Between Plastic and Silicone Dilators: Revealing a Knowledge Gap.

Abstract: INTRODUCTION: Vaginal stenosis is a distressing side effect of radiation therapy that can impair quality of life. Dilator therapy is an option for patients undergoing pelvic radiotherapy to mitigate vaginal stenosis. Currently, the dilators given to patients by most hospitals are made of plastic, compared to silicone dilators which are available on the market for purchase.
OBJECTIVES: We conducted a systematic literature review to find information to guide clinical recommendations to pelvic radiotherapy patients on potential differences regarding the use of plastic vs silicone dilators with regard to efficacy, cost, and patient preferences.
METHODS: A systematic literature review was conducted in Embase, MEDLINE, and PubMed using Emtree terms. To be included in the review, papers needed to: focus on female patients undergoing radiation therapy, assess a vaginal dilator, measure any dilator intervention outcome, and specifically compare plastic vs silicone dilators for any measured outcome (either qualitative or quantitative).
RESULTS: The initial search yielded 195 articles. Two area experts, with a third expert for arbitration, read each article and found that none met all review inclusion criteria. No studies were found that compared silicone to plastic dilators with regard to efficacy in treating vaginal stenosis due to radiation therapy, no studies were found that compared cost or cost-effectiveness of the 2 dilator types, and no studies were found comparing patient preferences or experiences (eg, comfort, adherence, ease of use) between the 2 dilator types.
CONCLUSION: The materials used to create dilators have never been rigorously compared in the context of radiotherapy-related vaginal stenosis. Institutions and patients have no data to guide their choice. Significantly more research at the patient and institutional level is needed to explore the potential long-term quality of life and cost benefits of improved adherence with silicone dilator use, and to guide shared decision-making regarding dilator choice. Morgan O, Lopez MD, Martinez AJC, et al. Systematic Review of Comparisons Between Plastic and Silicone Dilators: Revealing a Knowledge Gap. Sex Med Rev 2022;10:513-519.

Citation: Morgan O, et al. Systematic Review of Comparisons Between Plastic and Silicone Dilators: Revealing a Knowledge Gap. Systematic Review of Comparisons Between Plastic and Silicone Dilators: Revealing a Knowledge Gap. 2022; 10:513-519. doi: 10.1016/j.sxmr.2022.06.008

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36030181/
