PMID: 36047878
Title: Laparoscopic bile duct plasty for hilar bile duct stenosis (HBDS) in patients with congenital biliary dilatation: Diagnosis of HBDS by preoperative MRCP and laparoscopic strategy to relieve HBDS.

Abstract: BACKGROUND/PURPOSE: Congenital biliary dilatation (CBD) is a disease associated with pancreaticobiliary maljunction. The most frequent postoperative complication is intrahepatic stones, which are caused by hilar bile duct stenosis (HBDS).
METHODS: We retrospectively reviewed the records of patients who underwent primary surgery for CBD between 2013 and 2021. We evaluated images and videos of HBDS, the laparoscopic technique of releasing the stenosis, and its occurrence rate and compared intraoperative bile duct findings with those of preoperative magnetic resonance cholangiopancreatography (MRCP).
RESULTS: There were 87 CBD cases in this study. HBDS occurred in 52% and preoperative MRCP for HBDS showed a 96% sensitivity and 74% specificity in this study. Bile duct plasty was performed in 45% of the cases and videos demonstrated typical methods of laparoscopic bile duct plasty. The mid- to long-term complications were hepatolithiasis in three patients, anastomotic site stricture in three, and postoperative obstruction in two.
CONCLUSIONS: Our study revealed that preoperative imaging studies are useful for the prediction of HBDS. Our laparoscopic meticulous probing method for finding BDS reveals more intrahepatic BDS through magnification. Therefore, this may reduce the incidence of intrahepatic stones. Preoperative imaging and intraoperative findings can be complemented to plan management that reduces long-term complications.

Citation: Nakagawa Y, et al. Laparoscopic bile duct plasty for hilar bile duct stenosis (HBDS) in patients with congenital biliary dilatation: Diagnosis of HBDS by preoperative MRCP and laparoscopic strategy to relieve HBDS. Laparoscopic bile duct plasty for hilar bile duct stenosis (HBDS) in patients with congenital biliary dilatation: Diagnosis of HBDS by preoperative MRCP and laparoscopic strategy to relieve HBDS. 2023; 30:473-481. doi: 10.1002/jhbp.1235

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36047878/
