PMID: 36042649
Title: Thyroid storm complicated by corpus callosum infarction in a young patient: A case report and literature review.

Abstract: RATIONALE: Thyroid storm (TS) is a rare life-threatening hypermetabolic thyrotoxicosis with an incidence of 0.57-0.76/100,000. The coexistence of TS and acute cerebral infarction is rare. Previous studies have shown that hyperthyroidism complicated by cerebral infarction mainly occurs in the intracranial basal ganglia; however, there are no reports of corpus callosum infarction. We report a case of TS complicated by cerebral infarction of the corpus callosum at our hospital.
PATIENT CONCERNS: A 31-year-old male patient with a history of hyperthyroidism was admitted to the hospital because of fatigue, palpitations, fever, and profuse sweating accompanied by a mild decrease in the muscle strength of the left limb. Diagnosis of a TS was confirmed by the laboratory test results. The patient's clinical symptoms gradually improved after treatment. However, his left limb muscle strength progressively decreased, and the bilateral pathological signs were positive at the same time. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of the head revealed acute cerebral infarction of the corpus callosum and pons.
DIAGNOSIS: The diagnosis was thyroid strom with acute cerebral infarction of the corpus callosum and pons and severe stenosis or occlusion of the basilar artery.
INTERVENTIONS: The patient was given 300 mg hydrocortisone intravenously per day, propylthiouracil tablets of 200 mg 3 times a day by nasal feeding, and 20 mg propranolol three times a day by nasal feeding. Aspirin and clopidogrel were administered to prevent platelet aggregation, and atorvastatin calcium was administered to lower lipid levels to stabilize plaques.
OUTCOMES: The patient's left limb muscle strength recovered to grade 4+, and he could walk beside the bed with support. Simultaneously, thyroid function was better than before.
LESSONS: Careful physical examination should be performed in patients with thyroid storm, and head imaging examination should be improved for the early detection of cerebral infarction.

Citation: Cai Y, et al. Thyroid storm complicated by corpus callosum infarction in a young patient: A case report and literature review. Thyroid storm complicated by corpus callosum infarction in a young patient: A case report and literature review. 2022; 101:e30318. doi: 10.1097/MD.0000000000030318

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36042649/
