PMID: 36048327
Title: Efficacy of Human Embryonic Stem Cells Compared to Adipose Tissue-Derived Human Mesenchymal Stem/Stromal Cells for Repair of Murine Post-Stenotic Kidneys.

Abstract: Clinical translation of mesenchymal stem/stromal cell (MSC) therapy has been impeded by the heterogenous nature and limited replicative potential of adult-derived MSCs. Human embryonic stem cell-derived MSCs (hESC-MSCs) that differentiate from immortal cell lines are phenotypically uniform and have shown promise in-vitro and in many disease models. Similarly, adipose tissue-derived MSCs (MSC(AT)) possess potent reparative properties. How these two cell types compare in efficacy, however, remains unknown. We randomly assigned mice to six groups (n = 7-8 each) that underwent unilateral RAS or a sham procedure (3 groups each). Two weeks post-operation, each mouse was administered either vehicle, MSC(AT)s, or hESC-MSCs (5 × 105 cells) into the aorta. Mice were scanned with micro-MRI to determine renal hemodynamics two weeks later and kidneys then harvested. hESC-MSCs and MSC(AT)s were similarly effective at lowering systolic blood pressure. However, MSC(AT)s more robustly increased renal perfusion, oxygenation, and glomerular filtration rate in the post-stenotic kidney, and more effectively mitigated tubular injury, fibrosis, and vascular remodeling. These observations suggest that MSC(AT) are more effective than hESC-MSC in ameliorating kidney dysfunction and tissue injury distal to RAS. Our findings highlight the importance of tissue source in selection of MSCs for therapeutic purposes and underscore the utility of cell-based therapy for kidney disease.

Citation: Siddiqi S, et al. Efficacy of Human Embryonic Stem Cells Compared to Adipose Tissue-Derived Human Mesenchymal Stem/Stromal Cells for Repair of Murine Post-Stenotic Kidneys. Efficacy of Human Embryonic Stem Cells Compared to Adipose Tissue-Derived Human Mesenchymal Stem/Stromal Cells for Repair of Murine Post-Stenotic Kidneys. 2023; 19:491-502. doi: 10.1007/s12015-022-10443-8

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36048327/
