PMID: 36040748
Title: Impact of high-pressure balloon aortic valvuloplasty on the hydrodynamic result after a transcatheter valve-in-valve procedure.

Abstract: OBJECTIVES: The aim of this study was to investigate the degree of functional improvement of a transcatheter heart valve (THV) for valve-in-valve after bioprosthetic valve fracture (BVF) of three small surgical aortic valve bioprostheses (SAVBP) using high-pressure balloon aortic valvuloplasty (HP-BAV) under standardized ex-vivo-conditions.
METHODS: A THV 26 mm (Evolut R) and SAVBP 21 mm (Perimount Magna Ease, Trifecta, and Epic supra [n = 4] were used. Mean pressure gradient (MPG), effective orifice area (EOA), geometric orifice area (GOA), minimal internal diameter (MID), and pinwheeling index (PWI) were analyzed before and after HP-BAV of the SAVBP using a noncompliant balloon. Fracturing of the SAVBP was done before implantation of the THV and the balloon pressures at the point of fracture were recorded.
RESULTS: The Magna Ease and Epic fractured at balloon pressures of 18 and 8 atm, respectively. The Trifecta did not fracture up to a balloon pressure of 30 atm but was dilated. HP-BAV led to increased THV expansion as evident by straightened coaptation lines of the Evolut R 26 mm with reduced PWI, increased MID, and increased GOA in all 21 mm SAVBP. Evolut R showed significantly lower MPG and higher EOA as ViV in all prostheses after HP-BAV (p &lt; 0.001). MPG and EOA of Evolut R differed regarding the SAVBP. Evolut R presented the lowest MPG and highest EOA in Magna Ease and the highest MPG and lowest EOA in Epic supra.
CONCLUSIONS: The degree of function improvement of the same THV as ViV after HP-BAV depends on the surgical valve model. Functional improvement can also be achieved without valve fracture.

Citation: Sadat N, et al. Impact of high-pressure balloon aortic valvuloplasty on the hydrodynamic result after a transcatheter valve-in-valve procedure. Impact of high-pressure balloon aortic valvuloplasty on the hydrodynamic result after a transcatheter valve-in-valve procedure. 2022; 100:841-849. doi: 10.1002/ccd.30359

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36040748/
