PMID: 36047895
Title: Involvement of endothelial progenitor cells in blood flow recovery through activation of the Wnt/β-catenin signaling pathway and inhibition of high oxidative stress in diabetic hindlimb ischemic rats.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Diabetes mellitus (DM) often causes stenosis and occlusion of hindlimb blood vessels, which are also the main cause for hindlimb ischemia in elderly people.
OBJECTIVES: To investigate the therapeutic effect of endothelial progenitor cell (EPC) transplantation on diabetic hindlimb ischemia.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: Endothelial progenitor cells were separated, labeled with PKH-26 and transplanted into rat models (107 cells/100 g). Dichlorodihydrofluorescein diacetate (DCFH-DA) was used to detect any oxidative stress. Streptozotocin (STZ) was injected to establish a diabetic rat model and hindlimb ischemia model was established via operation. Western blotting was used to detect total β-catenin (T-β-catenin) and non-phospho-β-catenin (NP-β-catenin) levels. The malondialdehyde (MDA), superoxide dismutase (SOD), Wnt3a, Wnt5a and Wnt7a levels were detected using enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). Oxidative stress was measured using DCFH-DA and dihydroethidium (DHE). The endothelial biomarker CD31 was observed to highlight vessels, and PKH-26 to trace migration/adhesion of EPCs.
RESULTS: Endothelial progenitor cells were successfully isolated and identified, and diabetic hindlimb ischemic rat models were created. Tempol remarkably improved blood flow in diabetic hindlimb ischemic rats compared to DM+EPCs rats at 14 days (p < 0.001) and 28 days post-operation (p < 0.001). High oxidative stress was observed in diabetic hindlimb ischemic rats. Tempol significantly inhibited oxidative stress levels in diabetic hindlimb ischemic rats. Furthermore, Tempol significantly promoted angiogenesis in diabetic hindlimb ischemic rats compared to DM+EPCs rats. The β-catenin inhibitor, XAV (DM+EPCs+Tempol+XAV group), significantly suppressed blood flow recovery and angiogenesis in diabetic hindlimb ischemic rats when compared to the DM+EPCs+Tempol group at 14 days (p = 0.026) and 28 days (p < 0.001). The XAV remarkably reduced T-β-catenin (p < 0.001) and N-β-catenin (p = 0.030) levels in Tempol-treated diabetic hindlimb ischemic rats, as compared to the DM+EPCs+Tempol group. The Wnt5a participated in the pathology of diabetic hindlimb ischemia.
CONCLUSIONS: There are high oxidative stress levels in both EPCs in high-glucose environments and diabetic hindlimb ischemia, which can lead to limited blood flow recovery. The high oxidative stress caused the inhibition of Wnt/β-catenin signaling pathway, leading to limited blood flow recovery in diabetic hindlimb ischemia. At the same time, Wnt5a participated in the EPC-mediated blood flow recovery.

Citation: Xu X, et al. Involvement of endothelial progenitor cells in blood flow recovery through activation of the Wnt/β-catenin signaling pathway and inhibition of high oxidative stress in diabetic hindlimb ischemic rats. Involvement of endothelial progenitor cells in blood flow recovery through activation of the Wnt/β-catenin signaling pathway and inhibition of high oxidative stress in diabetic hindlimb ischemic rats. 2022; 31:1215-1229. doi: 10.17219/acem/139094

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36047895/
