PMID: 36040688
Title: Long term follow-up after balloon expandable covered stents implantation for management of transcatheter aortic valve replacement related vascular access complications.

Abstract: OBJECTIVES: To report the experience of a high-volume center with balloon-expandable (BE) stents implantation to manage vascular complications after transcatheter aortic valve replacement (TAVR).
BACKGROUND: Despite increased operator experience and better devices, vascular complications after TAVR are still a major issue and covered stent implantation is often required.
METHODS: We retrospectively collected baseline and procedural data about 78 consecutive patients who underwent BE stent implantation to manage a vascular complication after transfemoral TAVR. Primary endpoints were technical success, incidence of new-onset claudication and need for vascular interventions during long-term follow-up. Secondary endpoints included length of hospitalization, in-hospital and 30-day mortality, and major postoperative complications.
RESULTS: BE stents implantation to manage vascular complications after TAVR was successfully performed in 96.2% of the cases, with bailout surgery required in two cases. One patient suffered in-hospital death. Predischarge Doppler Ultrasound revealed no cases of in-stent occlusion or fracture. At a median follow-up of 429 days (interquartile range, 89-994 days), no cases of symptomatic leg ischemia were reported and only one patient experienced new-onset claudication.
CONCLUSIONS: Our experience showed good periprocedural and long-term results of BE covered stent implantation to manage vascular complication after TAVR. Their great radial outward force may guarantee effective hemostasis without necessarily being associated with stent deformation/fracture resulting in restenosis or further interventions. More research is needed to define the role of BE covered stents in this setting.

Citation: Maurina M, et al. Long term follow-up after balloon expandable covered stents implantation for management of transcatheter aortic valve replacement related vascular access complications. Long term follow-up after balloon expandable covered stents implantation for management of transcatheter aortic valve replacement related vascular access complications. 2022; 100:903-909. doi: 10.1002/ccd.30385

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36040688/
