PMID: 36054275
Title: Noninvasive computed tomography derived fractional flow reserve simulation based on microvascular tree model reconstruction.

Abstract: To establish a novel method for noninvasive computed tomography derived fractional flow reserve (CT-FFR) simulation based on microvascular tree model reconstruction and to evaluate the feasibility and diagnostic performance of the novel method in coronary artery disease compared with invasive fractional flow reserve (FFR). Twenty patients (20 vessels) who underwent coronary computed tomography angiography (CCTA) and invasive FFR were retrospectively studied. The anatomic epicardial coronary artery model was reconstructed based on CCTA image, and the microvascular tree model was simulated based on patient-specific anatomical structures and physiological principles. Numerical simulation was subsequently performed using the CFD method with full consideration of the variation of viscosity in microvascular. Two patients with the FFR value of .80 were selected for adjusting the parameters of the model, while the remaining 18 patients were selected as a validation cohort. After simulation, CT-FFR was compared with invasive FFR with a threshold of .80. Eleven (55%) patients had an abnormal FFR that was less than or equal to .80. Compared with invasive FFR, sensitivity, specificity, positive predictive value, negative predictive value, and accuracy of CT-FFR with an optimal threshold of .80 were 100%, 77.8%, 81.8%, 100%, 88.89%, respectively. There were a good correlation and consistency between CT-FFR and invasive FFR. Time per patient of CT-FFR analysis was less than 15 min. CT-FFR based on microvascular tree model reconstruction is feasible with good diagnostic performance. It requires a short processing time with excellent accuracy. Large multicenter prospective studies are required for further demonstrating the diagnostic performance of this novel model in myocardium ischemia evaluation.

Citation: Yu L, et al. Noninvasive computed tomography derived fractional flow reserve simulation based on microvascular tree model reconstruction. Noninvasive computed tomography derived fractional flow reserve simulation based on microvascular tree model reconstruction. 2023; 39:e3643. doi: 10.1002/cnm.3643

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36054275/
