PMID: 36059291
Title: A Case Series Analysis of Major Vascular Revascularization.

Abstract: Purpose Atherosclerosis is a generalized disorder and can begin to develop in the abdominal aorta by the second decade of life. The nature of these lesions in coronaries and aorta is atheromatous and less sclerotic when compared to peripheral arteries. A broad spectrum of presentations and different types of lesions demand a personalized approach for the best outcome. This study is a case series analysis of major vascular revascularization. We aim to study various revascularization surgeries and underline the wide range of vascular lesions to which it is applied. Methods This is a study based on accrual patient records of all major vascular revascularization surgical/interventional procedures conducted at a tertiary care center for one year. Results A total of 110 patients were operated on for vascular diseases. Among these, 86 (78.81%) were men, and 24 (21.81%) were women. The femoropopliteal segment (n=47) was most commonly involved, followed by the common carotid artery (n=20). Atherosclerosis was the main cause of vascular occlusion (81.8%), followed by aneurysm of the aorta (14.5%) and coarctation of the aorta (2.7%). Smoking (62.2%) accounted to be the leading risk factor, followed by hypertension, diabetes, and hyperlipidemia. The majority of patients had a good outcome (92.7%). Minor complications (7.3%) include seroma formation and wound infection, which were managed conservatively. The repair was performed by autologous vein graft in 30% of patients and by synthetic polytetrafluoroethylene (PTFE) graft in 70% of patients. Carotid artery stenting was the most common endovascular procedure performed (n=5). Femoropopliteal bypass grafting was the most common procedure, followed by carotid endarterectomy (n=20) and aortofemoral bypass (n=14). Conclusion The application of novel techniques such as cavo-atrial shunt in Budd-Chiari syndrome calls attention to the broadened scope of vascular surgery, and the modification of the conventional method of the carotid endarterectomy underscores the evolution of vascular revascularization. Our study thus highlighted that a wide spectrum of vascular lesions ranging from carotid artery stenosis to extensive below-knee disease, either atherosclerotic or aneurysmal, can be successfully treated with surgical revascularization techniques.

Citation: Yadav R, et al. A Case Series Analysis of Major Vascular Revascularization. A Case Series Analysis of Major Vascular Revascularization. 2022; 14:e27595. doi: 10.7759/cureus.27595

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36059291/
