PMID: 36058458
Title: Is Revascularization of V1 Segment of Vertebral Artery Combined with Ipsilateral Carotid Endarterectomy Safe?

Abstract: BACKGROUND: The recommendation of the European Society for Vascular Surgery (ESVS) is that vertebral revascularization combined with ipsilateral CEA (carotid endarterectomy) should not be performed in the same operation. ESVS believes that vertebral revascularization combined with ipsilateral CEA increases perioperative death/stroke rates. In our opinion, revascularization of the first segment of vertebral artery (V1) combined with ipsilateral CEA is safe compared to vertebral V1 revascularization in the perioperative period. The purpose of this study is to prove that revascularization of V1 segment of vertebral artery combined with ipsilateral CEA is secure in the perioperative period.
METHODS: We describe our experience with homochronous revascularization of V1 segment of vertebral artery with ipsilateral CEA (group B) and simple revascularization of V1 segment of vertebral artery (group A) in 48 consecutive patients during a 5-year period. O.Y. (Ouyang) incisions were used in both groups. We compare the results of the 2 procedures with aspects of mortality, stroke, morbidity, incident rates of complications, and so on.
RESULTS: There was no significant difference between patients in group A and group B in terms of red blood cell reduction, postoperative ventilator using time, postoperative drainage volume, postoperative drainage days, postoperative hospitalize duration, and incident rates of postoperative complications. The postoperative complications include death, stroke, Horner syndrome, vocal paralysis, hypoglossal nerve paralysis, wound hematomas, and lymphatic leakage.
CONCLUSIONS: Revascularization of vertebral artery combined with ipsilateral CEA should be divided into revascularization of V1 segment of vertebral artery combined with ipsilateral CEA and revascularization of V3 segment of vertebral artery with ipsilateral CEA. Revascularization of V1 segment of vertebral artery combined with ipsilateral CEA is safe; it can be performed for suitable patients who are fit for indications. O.Y. incisions can fully expose the target blood vessels and simplify the procedures without transecting the sternocleidomastoid muscles in operations.

Citation: Gu Y, et al. Is Revascularization of V1 Segment of Vertebral Artery Combined with Ipsilateral Carotid Endarterectomy Safe?. Is Revascularization of V1 Segment of Vertebral Artery Combined with Ipsilateral Carotid Endarterectomy Safe?. 2023; 88:218-227. doi: 10.1016/j.avsg.2022.07.020

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36058458/
