PMID: 36051124
Title: Left bundle branch pacing in a ventricular pacing dependent patient with heart failure: A case report.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Left bundle branch pacing (LBBP) is a physiological pacing method that has emerged in recent years. It is an ideal choice for patients with complete left bundle branch block who are in need of cardiac resynchronization therapy (CRT). Moreover, LBBP is superior in maintaining physiological ventricular activation and can effectively improve heart function and quality of life in patients with pacemaker-induced cardiomyopathy. However, LBBP in pacing-dependent patients who already have cardiac dysfunction has not been well assessed.
CASE SUMMARY: A 69-year-old male patient presented with symptoms of chest tightness, palpitation and systolic heart failure with New York Heart Association class III for 1 mo. The 12-lead electrocardiogram showed atrial fibrillation with third-degree atrioventricular block and ventricular premature beat. Holter revealed a right bundle branch block, atrial fibrillation with third-degree atrioventricular block, frequent multifocal ventricular premature beats, Ron-T and ventricular tachycardia. The echocardiogram documented an enlarged left atrium and left ventricle and a low left ventricular ejection fraction. Coronary angiography indicated a stenosis of 30% in the middle left anterior descending artery. Apparently, a CRT-D pacemaker was the best choice for this patient according to previous findings. However, the patient was worried about the financial burden. A single-chamber pacemaker with LBBP was selected, with the plan to take amiodarone and upgrade with dual-chamber implantable cardioverter-defibrillator or CRT-D at an appropriate time. During the follow-up at 3 mo after LBBP, the patient showed an improvement in cardiac function with slight improvement in echocardiography parameters, and the New York Heart Association functional class was maintained at I. Moreover, the patient no longer suffered from chest tightness and palpitation. Holter showed decreased ventricular arrhythmia of less than 5%.
CONCLUSION: LBBP might be used in patients with heart failure and a high-degree atrioventricular block as an alternative to conventional CRT.

Citation: Song BX, et al. Left bundle branch pacing in a ventricular pacing dependent patient with heart failure: A case report. Left bundle branch pacing in a ventricular pacing dependent patient with heart failure: A case report. 2022; 10:7090-7096. doi: 10.12998/wjcc.v10.i20.7090

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36051124/
