PMID: 36054800
Title: Structural analysis of regional transcatheter aortic valve underexpansion and its implications for subclinical leaflet thrombosis.

Abstract: Subclinical leaflet thrombosis has been increasingly recognized following transcatheter aortic valve replacement (TAVR). Determining the risk factors is vital in preventing clinical leaflet thrombosis and ensuring long-term value durability. Clinical data have indicated that regional stent under-expansion of transcatheter aortic valves (TAVs), particularly self-expanding devices, may be associated with an increased risk of subclinical leaflet thrombosis. This study aimed to determine the effects of regional TAV frame under-expansion on leaflet kinematics, leaflet structural characteristics, and explore its impact on the likelihood of leaflet thrombosis. In this study, mild and moderate regional frame under-expansion of a 26-mm CoreValve were examined using experimental testing and computational simulations. The results indicated that regional TAV frame under-expansion impairs leaflet kinematics and reduces the range of motion in leaflets with an angle less than 120°. The reduced range of motion can increase blood stasis on the surface of the TAV leaflets. The results also demonstrated that regional frame under-expansion induced localized high-stress regions in the leaflets close to the fixed boundary edge. The increased mechanical stress can lead to accelerated tissue degeneration. The study improves our understanding of the effects of regional stent under-expansion in TAVR. Post-procedural balloon dilatation of self-expanding TAVs can potentially be advantageous in reducing leaflet distortion and normalizing leaflet stress distribution. Large-scale, prospective, and well-controlled studies are needed to further investigate regional TAV frame under-expansion effects on subclinical leaflet thrombosis and long-term valve durability.

Citation: Qiu D and Azadani AN. Structural analysis of regional transcatheter aortic valve underexpansion and its implications for subclinical leaflet thrombosis. Structural analysis of regional transcatheter aortic valve underexpansion and its implications for subclinical leaflet thrombosis. 2022; 38:e3641. doi: 10.1002/cnm.3641

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36054800/
