PMID: 36053108
Title: Hypoplastic Left Heart Syndrome: Definition, Morphology, and Classification.

Abstract: This manuscript will provide information about hypoplastic left heart syndrome (HLHS) and related malformations, including definitions, morphology, and classification, based on the 2021 International Paediatric and Congenital Cardiac Code (IPCCC) and the Eleventh Revision of the International Classification of Diseases (ICD-11). HLHS is defined as "a spectrum of congenital cardiovascular malformations with normally aligned great arteries without a common atrioventricular junction, characterized by underdevelopment of the left heart with significant hypoplasia of the left ventricle including atresia, stenosis, or hypoplasia of the aortic or mitral valve, or both valves, and hypoplasia of the ascending aorta and aortic arch." Functionally univentricular heart is defined as "a spectrum of congenital cardiac malformations in which the ventricular mass may not readily lend itself to partitioning that commits one ventricular pump to the systemic circulation, and another to the pulmonary circulation." The Norwood operation is synonymous with the term "Norwood (Stage 1)" and is defined as (1) creation of an aortopulmonary connection and neoaortic arch construction resulting in univentricular physiology and (2) creation of a controlled source of pulmonary blood flow with a calibrated systemic-to-pulmonary artery shunt, a right ventricle to pulmonary artery conduit, or rarely, a cavopulmonary connection. The goals of the Norwood (Stage 1) Operation are creation of (1) unobstructed systemic blood flow via aortopulmonary connection and neoaortic arch construction, (2) unobstructed coronary blood flow, (3) unobstructed flow across the atrial septum, and (4) controlled pulmonary blood flow.

Citation: Jacobs JP. Hypoplastic Left Heart Syndrome: Definition, Morphology, and Classification. Hypoplastic Left Heart Syndrome: Definition, Morphology, and Classification. 2022; 13:559-564. doi: 10.1177/21501351221114770

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36053108/
