PMID: 36060591
Title: Temporal changes in plaque characteristics after treatment and their relationship with stroke recurrence: a quantitative study using magnetic resonance imaging.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Intracranial atherosclerotic disease (ICAD) is the major cause of ischemic stroke. Despite aggressive medical therapy, around 15% of patients with ICAD experience recurrence. The aim of the present study was to evaluate the temporal changes in intracranial arteriosclerotic plaques after medical treatment based on vessel wall magnetic resonance imaging (VWMRI) and to explore their relationship with stroke recurrence.
METHODS: A total of 67 symptomatic patients with ICAD who underwent initial and follow-up VWMRI were recruited into this retrospective cohort study. Stroke recurrence was defined as an ipsilateral stroke symptom after the initial attack. The clinical characteristics and plaque features, including stenosis ratio (measured based on luminal diameter or area), plaque thickness, plaque burden (PB), enhancement ratio (ER), and enhancement grade, were evaluated and compared between the initial and follow-up examinations. Changes in plaque characteristics were compared between patients with or without recurrence by univariable analyses. Multivariable regression was performed to investigate imaging markers for recurrent stroke.
RESULTS: The median interval between baseline and follow-up VWMRI was 334 days. A total of 13 cases (19.4%) experienced a stroke recurrence. After treatment, significant decreases in the stenosis ratio (area), PB, and ER were observed in cases without recurrence (all P<0.05), while no significant difference in plaque features was found for cases with recurrence. Univariable analyses showed that changes in stenosis ratio (area), plaque thickness, PB, and ER were significantly different between patients with and without recurrence (all P<0.05). Multivariable regression indicated that PB change was the only significant marker associated with stroke recurrence [odds ratio (OR) =1.112 per 1% increase, 95% confidence interval (CI): 1.010 to 1.224, P=0.031].
CONCLUSIONS: Patients with arteriosclerotic plaques who benefit from medical treatment show obvious decreases in stenosis (area), PB, and ER. The progression of PB may serve as an independent marker for predicting stroke recurrence.

Citation: Shen ZZ, et al. Temporal changes in plaque characteristics after treatment and their relationship with stroke recurrence: a quantitative study using magnetic resonance imaging. Temporal changes in plaque characteristics after treatment and their relationship with stroke recurrence: a quantitative study using magnetic resonance imaging. 2022; 12:4559-4569. doi: 10.21037/qims-22-210

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36060591/
