PMID: 36067966
Title: Arterial transit artifacts observed on arterial spin labeling perfusion imaging of carotid artery stenosis patients: What are counterparts on symptomatology, dynamic susceptibility contrast perfusion, and digital subtraction angiography?

Abstract: PURPOSE: To investigate possible relationships between the presence and location of arterial transit artifacts (ATA) and clinical symptoms, digital subtraction angiography (DSA), and dynamic susceptibility contrast (DSC) perfusion imaging abnormalities in patients with carotid artery stenosis (CAS).
METHODS: Forty-seven patients who underwent arterial spin labeling (ASL) and DSC perfusion imaging in the same period diagnosed with > 50% unilateral internal carotid artery (ICA) stenosis by DSA performed 24 h after perfusion imaging were included. The presence of ATA, localization and hypoperfusion were evaluated using ASL interpretation. Maps derived from DSC perfusion, symptomatology, stenosis rates, and collateralization findings observed in DSA were investigated. Probable relationships were evaluated.
RESULTS: ATA on ASL were detected in 68.1% (32/47); 40.6% (13/32) of ATAs were observed in the distal middle cerebral artery (MCA) trace, 50% (16/32) in the intracranial ICA and MCA traces, and 9.4% (3/32) in the intracranial ICA trace. When classifications based on the ATA presence and localization was made, qualitative and quantitative CBF, MTT, and TTP abnormalities, symptomatology, stenosis rates, and collateralization findings significantly differed between groups (p < 0.05).
CONCLUSION: The presence and localization of ATA in patients with CAS may provide essential insights into cerebral hemodynamics and the CAS severity. ATAs observed only in the distal MCA trace may represent early-stage perfusion abnormalities and a moderate level of stenosis. ATA in the ICA trace may related to a more advanced level of perfusion abnormalities, critical stenosis rates, symptom or collateralization presence.

Citation: Ozpar R, et al. Arterial transit artifacts observed on arterial spin labeling perfusion imaging of carotid artery stenosis patients: What are counterparts on symptomatology, dynamic susceptibility contrast perfusion, and digital subtraction angiography?. Arterial transit artifacts observed on arterial spin labeling perfusion imaging of carotid artery stenosis patients: What are counterparts on symptomatology, dynamic susceptibility contrast perfusion, and digital subtraction angiography?. 2023; 50:407-414. doi: 10.1016/j.neurad.2022.08.005

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36067966/
