PMID: 36063252
Title: Efficacy and safety of endovascular therapy for delayed hepatic artery post-pancreatectomy hemorrhage: development of extrahepatic collateral circulation and complications of post endovascular therapy.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Endovascular therapy (ET) for delayed hepatic artery post-pancreatectomy hemorrhage (HA-PPH) may require complete hepatic artery occlusion (HAO). Nonetheless, the development of extrahepatic collateral circulation (EHC) and the relationship between radiological factors (EHC, portal vein stenosis, and HAO) and adverse hepatic events after ET remain unclear. This study aimed to evaluate the efficacy and safety of ET for delayed PPH and examine the development of EHC.
METHODS: A total of 19 ET cases for delayed HA-PPH were reviewed. Hepatic adverse events, portal vein stenosis, HAO, and mortality rate after ET were evaluated. Moreover, EHC from the left gastric artery (LGA), right inferior phrenic artery (RIPA), left inferior phrenic artery (LIPA), right internal thoracic artery (RITA), left internal thoracic artery (LITA), renal artery (RA), omental artery (OA), intercostal artery (IA), and branch of superior mesenteric artery (BSMA) was assessed using angiogram and computed tomography angiography (CTA).
RESULTS: All cases were successfully treated using transcatheter arterial embolization (n = 17) and stent-graft placement (n = 2) without mortality. EHC from the LGA (8/19), RIPA (10/19), LIPA (4/19), and RITA (3/19) was observed on post-ET CTA. The incidence of hepatic adverse events was significant in the group with both HAO and portal vein stenosis (p < 0.001) and absence of EHC from LIPA and RITA (p < 0.05).
CONCLUSION: ET for delayed HA-PPH might be effective and safe. While avoiding both HAO and portal vein stenosis is important, the development of EHCs from LIPA and RITA may prevent hepatic adverse events after ET.

Citation: Nozawa Y, et al. Efficacy and safety of endovascular therapy for delayed hepatic artery post-pancreatectomy hemorrhage: development of extrahepatic collateral circulation and complications of post endovascular therapy. Efficacy and safety of endovascular therapy for delayed hepatic artery post-pancreatectomy hemorrhage: development of extrahepatic collateral circulation and complications of post endovascular therapy. 2022; 5:47. doi: 10.1186/s42155-022-00326-x

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36063252/
