PMID: 36071691
Title: Staged treatment for pancreaticoduodenal artery aneurysm with coeliac artery revascularisation: Case report and systematic review.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Despite being rare, pancreaticoduodenal artery aneurysms (PDAAs) carry a risk of rupture of up to 50% and are frequently associated with coeliac artery occlusion.
METHODS: PubMed and Embase databases were searched using appropriate terms. The systematic review was conducted according to PRISMA guidelines.
RESULTS: We present the case of a 2 cm pancreaticoduodenal artery aneurysm pre-operative angiography demonstrated that the coeliac artery was occluded and the pancreaticoduodenal artery was providing collateral blood supply to the liver. Treatment was a staged hybrid intervention inclusive of an aorto-hepatic bypass using a 6 mm graft, followed by coil embolisation of the aneurysm. We also present a systematic review of the management of PDAAs. Two hundred and ninety-two publications were identified initially with 81 publications included in the final review. Of the 258 peripancreatic aneurysms included, 175 (61%) were associated with coeliac artery disease either occlusion or stenosis. Abdominal pain was the main presentation in 158 cases. Rupture occurred in 111 (40%) of patients with only ten (3.8%) cases being unstable on presentation. Fifty (18%) cases were detected incidentally while investigating another pathology. Over half the cases (n=141/54.6%) were treated by trans arterial embolisation (TAE) alone, while 37 cases had open surgery only. Twenty-one cases needed TAE and a coeliac stent. Seventeen cases underwent hybrid treatment (open and endovascular). Sixteen cases were treated conservatively and in 26 cases, treatment was not specified.
CONCLUSION: PDAAs are commonly associated with coeliac artery disease. The most common presentation is pain followed by rupture. The scarcity of literature about true peripancreatic artery aneurysms associated with CA occlusive disease makes it difficult to assess the natural history or the appropriate treatment. Revascularisation of hepatic artery is better done with bypass in setting of median arcuate ligament compression and occluded celiac trunk.

Citation: Ghoneim B, et al. Staged treatment for pancreaticoduodenal artery aneurysm with coeliac artery revascularisation: Case report and systematic review. Staged treatment for pancreaticoduodenal artery aneurysm with coeliac artery revascularisation: Case report and systematic review. 2024; 32:162-178. doi: 10.1177/17085381221124991

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36071691/
