PMID: 36073272
Title: Aortic annulus rupture with fistula to the right ventricle following aortic valve replacement with a sutureless valve: A surgical complication with a percutaneous solution.

Abstract: With the development of interventional procedures, iatrogenic aorto-right ventricular fistulae are increasingly reported. They may follow surgical aortic valve replacement or percutaneous aortic valve implantation, leading to high morbidity. Traditionally, treatment of fistulae was based on surgical repair, but with advances in endovascular technologies, more emphasis is now placed on percutaneous closure. We report the case of a 78-year-old patient with severe symptomatic aortic stenosis who underwent surgical aortic valve replacement with a Perceval sutureless valve. One month later, he presented with symptoms and signs of heart failure. Transthoracic and transesophageal echocardiography confirmed the presence of a aorto-right ventricular fistula. The fistula was successfully closed percutaneously with an Amplatzer Vascular Plug II, in an intracardiac echocardiography-guided procedure. Aorto-right ventricular fistula is a rare finding after surgical aortic valve replacement and to our knowledge it has never been associated with sutureless aortic valve replacement. A percutaneous procedure with an appropriately selected device may be encouraged because of the high morbidity and mortality of redo open-heart surgery. To minimize the risk of a second general anesthesia, the use of intracardiac echocardiography to guide the percutaneous procedure is feasible and safe.

Citation: G Francisco AR, et al. Aortic annulus rupture with fistula to the right ventricle following aortic valve replacement with a sutureless valve: A surgical complication with a percutaneous solution. Aortic annulus rupture with fistula to the right ventricle following aortic valve replacement with a sutureless valve: A surgical complication with a percutaneous solution. 2022; 41:719.e1-719.e5. doi: 10.1016/j.repc.2022.06.009

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36073272/
