PMID: 36089271
Title: Feasibility of Preoperative Magnetic Resonance Angiography/Black-Blood Magnetic Resonance Imaging/Computed Tomography Fusion Imaging Without Contrast Agent for Carotid Endarterectomy.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Preoperative identification of the carotid bifurcation (CB) location and plaque and stenosis distal end of the cervical internal carotid artery in relation to bony structures is essential for carotid endarterectomy (CEA). However, for patients with contrast contraindications, cervical 3-dimensional computed tomography angiography (3D-CTA) is unavailable. In this study, we created fusion images of magnetic resonance angiography (MRA), black-blood (BB) magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), and CT to determine if these noncontrast agent images are superior to 3D-CTA for preoperative CEA planning.
METHODS: The fusion images showed vascular structures obtained by MRA, plaque observed by BB-MRI, and bone structures shown by CT. Spatial localization accuracy was verified by directly overlaying contrast-enhanced 3D-CTA images on the fusion images. We validated this technique in 50 patients with unilateral ICA stenosis, 28 of whom underwent CEA. The 2D-distance CB MRA-CTA (the 2D distance difference between CB MRA and CB CTA perpendicular to the long axis of the carotid artery) was measured. We also compared the findings of the fusion image regarding the CB location and plaque distal end with the operative findings.
RESULTS: The median 2D distance CB MRA-CTA was 1 mm. CB MRA was located distal and proximal to CB CTA in 21and 29 patients, respectively. The CB location and fusion-image plaque were consistent with the intraoperative findings in all CEA patients.
CONCLUSIONS: Fusion images created from MRA, BB-MRI, and noncontrast CT were feasible as an alternative to 3D-CTA for patients with contrast contraindications.

Citation: Kuroda H, et al. Feasibility of Preoperative Magnetic Resonance Angiography/Black-Blood Magnetic Resonance Imaging/Computed Tomography Fusion Imaging Without Contrast Agent for Carotid Endarterectomy. Feasibility of Preoperative Magnetic Resonance Angiography/Black-Blood Magnetic Resonance Imaging/Computed Tomography Fusion Imaging Without Contrast Agent for Carotid Endarterectomy. 2022; 167:e1219-e1224. doi: 10.1016/j.wneu.2022.09.018

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36089271/
