PMID: 36091404
Title: Fast prediction of blood flow in stenosed arteries using machine learning and immersed boundary-lattice Boltzmann method.

Abstract: A fast prediction of blood flow in stenosed arteries with a hybrid framework of machine learning and immersed boundary-lattice Boltzmann method (IB-LBM) is presented. The integrated framework incorporates the immersed boundary method for its excellent capability in handling complex boundaries, the multi-relaxation-time LBM for its efficient modelling for unsteady flows and the deep neural network (DNN) for its high efficiency in artificial learning. Specifically, the stenosed artery is modelled by a channel for two-dimensional (2D) cases or a tube for three-dimensional (3D) cases with a stenosis approximated by a fifth-order polynomial. An IB-LBM is adopted to obtain the training data for the DNN which is constructed to generate an approximate model for the fast flow prediction. In the DNN, the inputs are the characteristic parameters of the stenosis and fluid node coordinates, and the outputs are the mean velocity and pressure at each node. To characterise complex stenosis, a convolutional neural network (CNN) is built to extract the stenosis properties by using the data generated by the aforementioned polynomial. Both 2D and 3D cases (including 3D asymmetrical case) are constructed and examined to demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed method. Once the DNN model is trained, the prediction efficiency of blood flow in stenosed arteries is much higher compared with the direct computational fluid dynamics simulations. The proposed method has a potential for applications in clinical diagnosis and treatment where the real-time modelling results are desired.

Citation: Wang L, et al. Fast prediction of blood flow in stenosed arteries using machine learning and immersed boundary-lattice Boltzmann method. Fast prediction of blood flow in stenosed arteries using machine learning and immersed boundary-lattice Boltzmann method. 2022; 13:953702. doi: 10.3389/fphys.2022.953702

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36091404/
