PMID: 36092791
Title: Multislice Computed Tomography Angiography Imaging Diagnosis of Lower Extremity Arteriosclerosis in Patients with Hypertension and Its Correlation with the Level of High-Sensitivity C-Reactive Protein.

Abstract: The aim of this study was to investigate the relationship between multislice computed tomography (CT) angiography (MSCTA) imaging and high-sensitivity C-reactive protein (hs-CRP) in patients with hypertension and lower extremity arteriosclerosis. 68 hypertensive patients with lower extremity arteriosclerosis were selected as the observation group, and 68 healthy volunteers were selected as the control group to compare the differences in hs-CRP. According to the degree of stenosis, the patients were further divided into five grades: no obvious stenosis, mild stenosis, moderate stenosis, severe stenosis, and occlusion. The correlation between the degree of stenosis and the content of hs-CRP was compared. The changes of hs-CRP content before and after treatment were compared, and the difference of images before and after surgical treatment and the difference of hs-CRP expression in patients with occlusion were compared. Compared with the control group, the content of hs-CRP in the observation group was significantly higher (P &lt; 0.05), and the degree of stenosis was positively correlated with the content of hs-CRP. After two weeks of treatment, the hs-CRP levels of patients with severe stenosis and occlusion were significantly lower than those before treatment (P &lt; 0.01). The level of hs-CRP in patients with occlusion after arterial stent intervention was significantly lower than before, and the images also showed that the blood vessels were significantly expanded. The degree of stenosis in patients with lower extremity arteriosclerosis diagnosed by MSCTA imaging was closely related to the expression of hs-CRP in the patient, and a sustained high concentration of hs-CRP corresponded to a more severe degree of vascular occlusion. In conclusion, the hs-CRP can be used as one of the factors to predict and evaluate the occurrence of cardiovascular and cerebrovascular diseases.

Citation: Huo J, et al. Multislice Computed Tomography Angiography Imaging Diagnosis of Lower Extremity Arteriosclerosis in Patients with Hypertension and Its Correlation with the Level of High-Sensitivity C-Reactive Protein. Multislice Computed Tomography Angiography Imaging Diagnosis of Lower Extremity Arteriosclerosis in Patients with Hypertension and Its Correlation with the Level of High-Sensitivity C-Reactive Protein. 2022; 2022:1768208. doi: 10.1155/2022/1768208

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36092791/
