PMID: 36098413
Title: Patients with Polyvascular Disease: A Very High-risk Group.

Abstract: Polyvascular disease (PolyvascDis) with atherosclerosis occurring in >2 vascular beds (coronary, carotid, aortic, visceral and/or peripheral arteries) is encountered in 15-30% of patients who experience greater rates of major adverse cardiovascular (CV) events. Every patient with multiple CV risk factors or presenting with CV disease in one arterial bed should be assessed for PolyvascDis clinically and noninvasively prior to invasive angiography. Peripheral arterial disease (PAD) can be readily diagnosed in routine practice by measuring the ankle-brachial index. Carotid disease can be diagnosed by duplex ultrasound showing % stenosis and/or presence of plaques. Coronary artery disease (CAD) can be screened by determining coronary artery calcium score using coronary computed tomography angiography; further, non-invasive testing includes exercise stress and/or myocardial perfusion imaging or dobutamine stress test, prior to coronary angiography. Abdominal ultrasound can reveal an abdominal aortic aneurysm. Computed tomography angiography will be needed in patients with suspected mesenteric ischemia to assess the mesenteric arteries. Patients with the acute coronary syndrome and concomitant other arterial diseases have more extensive CAD and poorer CV outcomes. Similarly, PolyvascDis in patients with carotid disease and/or other PAD is independently associated with an increased risk for all-cause and CV mortality during long-term follow-up. Treatment of patients with PolyvascDis should include aggressive management of all modifiable risk factors by lifestyle changes and drug therapy, with particular attention to patients who are commonly undertreated, such as those with PAD. Revascularization should be reserved for symptomatic vascular beds, using the least aggressive strategy in a multidisciplinary vascular team approach.

Citation: Manolis AA, et al. Patients with Polyvascular Disease: A Very High-risk Group. Patients with Polyvascular Disease: A Very High-risk Group. 2022; 20:475-490. doi: 10.2174/1570161120666220912103321

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36098413/
