PMID: 36098378
Title: Concomitant anaortic OPCAB and transfemoral TAVR for high-risk patients: A case series.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Combined on-pump coronary artery bypass (ONCAB) and surgical aortic valve replacement (SAVR) is the treatment of choice for concomitant severe aortic stenosis and coronary artery disease not amenable to percutaneous coronary intervention. Extensive aortic calcification and atheromatous disease may prohibit cardiopulmonary bypass and aortic cross-clamping. In these cases, anaortic off-pump coronary artery bypass (OPCAB) is a Class I (EACTS 2018) and Class IIA (AHA 2021) indication for surgical coronary revascularization. Transcatheter aortic valve replacement (TAVR) has similar benefits when compared with SAVR for this population (Partner 2 &amp; 3). Herewith we describe a case series of concomitant Anaortic OPCAB and TAVR via the transfemoral approach for patients with coronary artery and valve disease considered too high risk for traditional coronary artery bypass grafting and SAVR due to severe aortic disease.
METHODS/RESULTS: Eight patients underwent anaortic OPCAB and transfemoral TAVR during the same anesthetic in a hybrid operating room. Seven patients with multivessel disease had anaortic OPCAB via a sternotomy using composite grafts, one patient with LAD disease had anaortic OPCAB using a Da Vinci-assisted MIDCAB approach. All patients then had an Edwards Sapien 3 TAVR placed percutaneously via the common femoral artery. There was no 30 mortality or CVA in the series and all patients were discharged to home or a rehabilitation facility on Day 4-13.
CONCLUSIONS: Combined anaortic OPCAB and transfemoral TAVR is a safe and feasible approach to treating concomitant extensive coronary artery disease and severe aortic stenosis. The aortic no-touch technique provides benefits in the elderly high-risk patients by reducing the risk of postoperative myocardial infarction and cerebrovascular stroke.

Citation: Hardisky D, et al. Concomitant anaortic OPCAB and transfemoral TAVR for high-risk patients: A case series. Concomitant anaortic OPCAB and transfemoral TAVR for high-risk patients: A case series. 2022; 37:3935-3942. doi: 10.1111/jocs.16838

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36098378/
