PMID: 36091165
Title: Establishing a novel model of malignant airway stenosis in rabbit.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Malignant central airway stenosis is a life-threatening condition. However, treatment of malignant airway stenosis remains challenging. There is currently a severe lack of an excellent animal model of malignant airway stenosis to facilitate treatment approaches. This is the first study to establish a rabbit model of malignant airway stenosis for bronchoscopic interventional studies.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: New Zealand White rabbits were used in this study, randomly divided into group A (18 rabbits) and group B (6 rabbits). A VX2 fragment suspension was injected into the submucosal layer of rabbits' airway by bronchoscopy. Bronchoscopic examinations were performed once a week after VX2 tumor implantation to observe tumor growth and the degree of airway stenosis. Randomly, three rabbits were generally dissected after a weekly bronchoscopic examination in group A. The rabbits that reached grade III airway stenosis underwent stent implantation in group B.
RESULTS: A total of 24 rabbits were successfully implanted with the VX2 fragment suspension in the airway without significant adverse events, and the success rate of the tumor growth was 100%. The degree of airway stenosis reaching grade III took 2 to 3 weeks after implantation of the VX2 tumor. The median survival time of rabbit models without stent implantation and rabbits with stent implantation was 32.5 and 32.0 days, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: The implanting method is safe and effective for the establishment of a rabbit model of malignant airway stenosis. When the tumor grows to 2 to 3 weeks, the rabbit model is available for stent implantation. We recommend the models for more preclinical animal studies on bronchoscopic interventional treatments.

Citation: Lin X, et al. Establishing a novel model of malignant airway stenosis in rabbit. Establishing a novel model of malignant airway stenosis in rabbit. 2022; 12:959309. doi: 10.3389/fonc.2022.959309

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36091165/
