PMID: 36098589
Title: [X-ray endoscopic treatment in patients with ureteral anastomotic obliteration after orthotopic neobladder formation].

Abstract: INTRODUCTION: Strictures and obliterations of ureteral anastomosis after radical cystectomy with orthotopic neobladder reconstruction occur in 8-13% of cases, mainly in the first 2 years after surgery. According to the European Association of Urology guidelines, open reconstruction is considered the "gold standard" for the treatment of those patients. At the same time, according to various publications, X-ray endoscopic treatment of ureteral anastomotic strictures can be performed, especially in patients who have undergone orthotopic neobladder reconstruction.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Three clinical cases of endoscopic treatment of ureteral anastomotic obliteration after orthotopic neobladder formation are presented. In all patients, nephrostomy tube was initially put due to acute pyelonephritis. Obliteration of the ureteral anastomosis was diagnosed by contrast-enhanced multispiral computed tomography and antegrade pyelography. The length of obliteration in all patients did not exceed 1.0 cm. The recurrence of the bladder cancer was excluded. After percutaneous opacification of the pelvicalyceal system and advancement of two guidewires ("working" and "safety") to the level of ureteral obliteration, a catheter with a built-in fiber optic light source was put in antegrade fashion along the "working" guidewire to the area of obliteration. During transurethral inspection of the reservoir, the distal end of the light source was visualized and the reservoir wall was cut "to the light" using electrosurgery (n=2) and a thulium fiber laser (one case). For adequate kidney drainage, two internal stents of 6 Fr were put for a period of 6 months in two patients and for 2 months in another case.
RESULTS: All patients had an adequate diameter of the ureteral anastomosis after removal of the stents. In two cases, an adequate passage of the contrast agent through both ureters was maintained for 42 and 37 months after procedure (according to the follow-up computed tomography and excretory urography). One patient had an attack of acute pyelonephritis 2 months after the removal of internal stents due to recurrent stricture. After repeated endoscopic ureteral recanalization with putting of two internal stents for a period of 6 months, no recurrence of the stricture was observed during 28 months of follow-up.
CONCLUSION: Endoscopic treatment of both primary and recurrent short ureteral anastomotic obliterations in patients with orthotopic neobladder allows for adequate ureteral patency, provided that two internal stents are left in place for 6 months.

Citation: Martov AG, et al. [X-ray endoscopic treatment in patients with ureteral anastomotic obliteration after orthotopic neobladder formation]. [X-ray endoscopic treatment in patients with ureteral anastomotic obliteration after orthotopic neobladder formation]. 2022; (unknown volume):44-51.

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36098589/
