PMID: 36107582
Title: Acute abdominal aortic injury during posterior lumbar fusion surgery: A case report.

Abstract: INTRODUCTION: Vascular injury is a serious complication during lumbar fusion surgery, leading to massive blood loss and life-threatening circulatory failure. In this study, we report on a patient with abdominal aorta injury at L2-L3 level during lumbar fusion surgery via posterior approach. Fortunately, our patient was successfully managed with prompt intervention.
PATIENT CONCERNS: A 73-year-old female was admitted to our department of low back and bilateral leg pain with claudication for over 6 months.
DIAGNOSIS: L2-S1 spinal canal stenosis, with abdominal aorta injury at the L2-L3 level during lumbar fusion surgery via a posterior approach.
INTERVENTIONS: L2-S1 decompression and fusion via a posterior approach was employed for spinal canal stenosis. Transluminal angioplasty with stent placement was successfully performed to stop the bleeding.
OUTCOMES: During the procedure, it was decided that staunching the active bleeding was necessary and attention should be paid to the vital signs and blood pressure. Vascular surgical intervention was immediately scheduled when the blood pressure dropped. After stent placement, hemodynamic parameters stabilized.
CONCLUSION: In this case report we review the prevalent sites, predisposing risk factors, diagnosis, and treatment of acute abdominal aortic injury during posterior lumbar fusion surgery, in view of our case findings. Although the incidence of vascular injury during lumbar fusion surgery is low, it is often easily overlooked. Consequently, during surgery, physicians should always be alert to the risk of vascular injury and master its clinical characteristics. Once injury is suspected, active and effective measures should promptly be taken for diagnosis and treatment to avoid serious adverse consequences.

Citation: Wang J, et al. Acute abdominal aortic injury during posterior lumbar fusion surgery: A case report. Acute abdominal aortic injury during posterior lumbar fusion surgery: A case report. 2022; 101:e30216. doi: 10.1097/MD.0000000000030295

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36107582/
