PMID: 36112191
Title: Identifying fragile calcifications of the aortic valve in transcatheter aortic valve replacement: iodine concentration of aortic valvular calcification by spectral CT.

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: To demonstrate the relationship between spectral computed tomography (CT) measured iodine concentration and strength of aortic valvular calcification (AVC) in patients with aortic valve stenosis (AVS).
METHODS: A retrospective study was performed on patients who underwent transcatheter aortic valve replacement (TAVR) for symptomatic AVS and underwent both pre and postprocedural electrocardiogram gated CT scans using a spectral CT system. Preprocedural CT was used to evaluate the volume and iodine concentration (IC) in the AVC. Postprocedural CT data were used to calculate the volume reduction percentage (VRP) of AVC. Multiple linear regression analysis was used to identify the independent variables related to the VRP in AVCs.
RESULTS: A total of 94 AVCs were selected from 22 patients. The mean volume and IC of the AVCs before TAVR were 0.37 mL ± 0.15 mL and 7 mg/mL ± 10.5 mg/mL, respectively. After TAVR, a median VRP of all 94 AVCs was 18.5%. Multiple linear regression analysis showed that the IC was independently associated with the VRP (coefficient = 1.64, p < 0.001). When an optimal IC cutoff point was set at 4 mg/mL in the assessment of a fragile AVC which showed the VRP was > 18.5%, the sensitivity was 63%; specificity, 91%; positive predictive value, 88%; and negative predictive value, 71%.
CONCLUSIONS: When using spectral CT to prepare the TAVR, measuring the IC of the AVC may be useful to assess the probability of AVC deformity after TAVR.
KEY POINTS: • A dual-layer detector-based spectral CT enables quantifying iodine of contrast media in the aortic valve calcification (AVC) on contrast-enhanced CT images. • The AVC including iodine of contrast media on contrast-enhanced CT image may have loose compositions, associated with the deformity of AVC after TAVR. • Measuring the iodine concentration in AVC may have the potential to assess the probability of AVC deformity, which may be associated with the outcome and complications after TAVR.2.

Citation: Park S, et al. Identifying fragile calcifications of the aortic valve in transcatheter aortic valve replacement: iodine concentration of aortic valvular calcification by spectral CT. Identifying fragile calcifications of the aortic valve in transcatheter aortic valve replacement: iodine concentration of aortic valvular calcification by spectral CT. 2023; 33:1963-1972. doi: 10.1007/s00330-022-09133-3

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36112191/
