PMID: 36113416
Title: Comparison of the Safety and Efficacy of Three-Dimensional Guiding Templates and Free Hand Technique for Cervical Pedicle Screw Fixation: A Retrospective Study.

Abstract: Aim. To compare the safety and efficacy of computed tomography (CT)-assisted three-dimensional guiding templates (3DGTs) and free-hand (FH) technique for posterior cervical pedicle screw fixation in cervical spondylotic myelopathy (CSM) treatment. Methods. Thirty-five patients (216 screws) with CSM and developmental cervical stenosis were randomly divided into groups A (FH) and B (3DGTs). All patients underwent modified posterior surgery with cervical pedicle screw insertion (C1-7). Preoperative, postoperative, and intergroup comparisons of efficacy were evaluated using the visual analog scale (VAS), Japanese Orthopaedic Association (JOA), and Short Form 12 (SF-12) scores and JOA score improvement rate. Incidence of intra- and postoperative complications was analyzed. Postoperative cervical spine CT was performed to evaluate (i) the pedicle screws' deviation angle from the optimal path (sagittal deviation, α; coronal deviation angle, β), screw insertion point's deviation distance (d), and screw accuracy and (ii) the deviation angle and distance of screw entrance point of pedicle screws from the optimal channel. Results. All patients successfully completed the procedures. Groups A and B did not significantly differ in age, sex ratio, body mass index, operative time, or intraoperative blood loss amount. Postoperative VAS, JOA, and SF-12 scores improved in both groups. VAS, JOA, or SF-12 scores did not significantly differ between the 2 groups. The α, β, and d scores were lower in group B, but accuracy was higher in group B. Conclusions. 3DGTs and FH technique show comparable outcomes with respect to neurological improvement and safety.

Citation: He YX, et al. Comparison of the Safety and Efficacy of Three-Dimensional Guiding Templates and Free Hand Technique for Cervical Pedicle Screw Fixation: A Retrospective Study. Comparison of the Safety and Efficacy of Three-Dimensional Guiding Templates and Free Hand Technique for Cervical Pedicle Screw Fixation: A Retrospective Study. 2022; 29:652-661. doi: 10.1177/15533506221127381

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36113416/
