PMID: 36111049
Title: Stroke incidence and cognitive outcomes of intracranial atherosclerotic stenosis: study protocol for a multicenter, prospective, observational cohort study.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Intracranial atherosclerotic stenosis (ICAS) is one of the leading causes of stroke worldwide. Current diagnostic evaluations and treatments remain insufficient to assess the vulnerability of intracranial plaques and reduce the recurrence of stroke in symptomatic ICAS. On the other hand, asymptomatic ICAS is associated with an increased risk of cognitive impairment. The pathogenesis of ICAS related cognitive decline is largely unknown. The aim of SICO-ICAS study (stroke incidence and cognitive outcomes of ICAS) is to elucidate the pathophysiology of stroke and cognitive impairment in ICAS population, comprehensively evaluating the complex interactions among life-course exposure, genomic variation, vascular risk factors, cerebrovascular burden and coexisting neurodegeneration.
METHODS: SICO-ICAS is a multicenter, prospective, observational cohort study. We aim to recruit 3,000 patients with symptomatic or asymptomatic ICAS (>50% or occlusion) who will be followed up for ≥12 months. All participants will undergo pre-designed magnetic resonance imaging packages, blood biomarkers testing, as well as detailed cognitive domains assessment. All participants will undergo clinical visits every 6 months and telephone interviews every 3 months. The primary outcome measurement is ischemic stroke or cognitive impairment within 12 months after enrollment.
DISCUSSION: This study will establish a large prospective ICAS cohort, hopefully discover new biomarkers associated with vulnerable intracranial plaques, identify subjects at high risk for incident ischemic stroke or cognitive impairment, and eventually propose a precise diagnostic and treatment strategy for ICAS population.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: Chinese Clinical Trials Register ChiCTR2200061938.

Citation: Si Q, et al. Stroke incidence and cognitive outcomes of intracranial atherosclerotic stenosis: study protocol for a multicenter, prospective, observational cohort study. Stroke incidence and cognitive outcomes of intracranial atherosclerotic stenosis: study protocol for a multicenter, prospective, observational cohort study. 2022; 10:909. doi: 10.21037/atm-22-3570

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36111049/
