PMID: 36117373
Title: [Modified mattress inversion suturing with double barbed sutures used for totally laparoscopic esophagojejunostomy overlap anastomosis after radical total gastrectomy].

Abstract: Objective: To explore the advantages and safety of a modified mattress inversion suturing using double barbed sutures compared with the traditional overlap method in totally laparoscopic esophagojejunostomy overlap anastomosis. Methods: A retrospective cohort study was conducted. The inclusion criteria were as follows: (1) patients were aged 18 - 80 years old; (2) adenocarcinoma was preoperatively confirmed by pathological analysis; (3) patients had undergone a complete laparoscopic radical total gastrectomy; (4) patients had undergone esophagojejunostomy using the overlap method; (5) patients received a grade of I-III on the American Society of Anesthesiologists physical status classification system; (6) patients' complete follow-up data had been collected. Patients with a history of other malignant tumors, multi-origin tumors, emergency surgery, non-R0 radical resection or distant metastasis were excluded. The clinical data of 89 gastric cancer patients who underwent total laparoscopic radical total gastrectomy in the Department of Gastrointestinal Surgery in the Sixth Affiliated Hospital of Sun Yat-sen University from January 2019 to December 2020 were collected. These patients were grouped according to the esophagojejunostomy method used. Of 89 patients, 32 received modified mattress inversion suturing with double barbed sutures to close the common opening of esophagojejunostomy (the modified anastomosis group), while 57 received traditional overlap anastomosis in which the common opening was closed by barbed suture (the traditional anastomosis group). The operation conditions (incision length, conversion to laparotomy, duration of esophagojejunostomy) and postoperative recovery (time to commencement of a liquid diet, duration of postoperative hospital stay, anastomotic leakage, anastomotic stenosis, and anastomotic bleeding) were compared between the two groups. Results: There was no significant difference in the baseline data of the two groups for any parameter (all P&gt;0.05). All patients received complete laparoscopic radical gastrectomy without conversion to laparotomy. There were no significant differences in the length of the median incision, the proportion of food intake on the first day after surgery, or in the incidence of anastomotic complications such as anastomotic leakage, anastomotic stenosis, and anastomotic bleeding between the two groups (P&gt;0.05). Compared with the traditional anastomosis group, patients in the modified anastomosis group had shorter anastomosis time [26 (19-62) minutes vs. 36 (20-50) minutes, Z=-2.546, P=0.011] and postoperative hospital stay [7 (6-12) days vs. 9 (7-42) days, Z=-4.202, P&lt;0.001]. The differences were statistically significant (all P&lt;0.05). In a subgroup analysis of tumor TNM stage III, Siewert type II and neoadjuvant chemotherapy patients, there was no significant difference in the incidence of anastomotic complications between the modified group and the traditional group. However, the postoperative hospital stay duration in the modified anastomosis group was less than in the traditional anastomosis group. The duration of anastomosis in Siewert type II patients was also shorter in the modified anastomosis group than in the traditional anastomosis group [26 (19-62) minutes vs. 38 (21-50) minutes, Z=-2.105, P=0.035], and the difference was statistically significant (all P&lt;0.05). Conclusion: Complete laparoscopic esophagojejunostomy using modified mattress inversion suturing with double barbed sutures is a safe and feasible anastomosis method to close the common opening of esophagojejunostomy, with shorter operation time, faster postoperative recovery and shorter hospital stay than the traditional method.

Citation: Wang HS, et al. [Modified mattress inversion suturing with double barbed sutures used for totally laparoscopic esophagojejunostomy overlap anastomosis after radical total gastrectomy]. [Modified mattress inversion suturing with double barbed sutures used for totally laparoscopic esophagojejunostomy overlap anastomosis after radical total gastrectomy]. 2022; 25:812-818. doi: 10.3760/cma.j.cn441530-20220301-00072

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36117373/
