PMID: 36116970
Title: Outcome of percutaneous transhepatic biliary interventions in the management of biliary enteric anastomotic strictures with hepatolithiasis.

Abstract: AIM: To evaluate percutaneous transhepatic biliary interventions (PTBI) using the ADDFREE (Access-Drain-Dilate-Flush-REpeat periodically-Evaluate and remove) technique and its outcomes in patients with biliary enteric anastomotic strictures (BEAS) and hepatolithiasis.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: A retrospective review was undertaken of patients having hepatolithiasis with BEAS who underwent PTBI with a therapeutic intent (from January 2010 to January 2021) was performed. The technical and clinical successes of PTBI were analysed. Technical success was divided into duct access, crossing of BEAS, stricture resolution, and calculi clearance. Improvement of liver function tests, resolution of leucocytosis and presenting complaints were considered as clinical success. The patients were followed-up for a minimum duration of 6-months.
RESULTS: Eighteen patients received PTBI in form of the ADDFREE technique. Hepatolithiasis was bilobar (44.4%), unilobar in multiple ducts (unilobar-m; 27.8%) and unilobar in a single duct (unilobar-s; 27.8%) along with anastomotic stricture. The average number of sessions of stone clearance for bilobar, unilobar-m, and unilobar-s was 4.4 (±1.6), 3.6 (±2.4), and 1.5 (±0.5), respectively. Clinical success was observed in 14 (77.8%), while one patient had recurrence of calculi and received repeat treatment. Bile culture was positive for bacterial organisms in 17 (94.4%) patients. No major complication were seen while minor complication were seen in five patients consisting of self-limiting haemobilia (n=1), per-catheter bile leak (n=2) and aggravation of cholangitis (n=2).
CONCLUSION: PTBI, consisting of bile duct access, cholangioplasty, and calculi clearance, is a safe and effective technique for the treatment of patients having hepatolithiasis secondary to BEAS.

Citation: Mukund A, et al. Outcome of percutaneous transhepatic biliary interventions in the management of biliary enteric anastomotic strictures with hepatolithiasis. Outcome of percutaneous transhepatic biliary interventions in the management of biliary enteric anastomotic strictures with hepatolithiasis. 2023; 78:e6-e12. doi: 10.1016/j.crad.2022.08.125

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36116970/
