PMID: 36117152
Title: Cavernous segment internal carotid artery stenosis specific to meningiomas compared to pituitary adenomas.

Abstract: BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: Pituitary macroadenomas and meningiomas are common neoplasms arising within the cavernous sinus. Imaging characteristics on MRI can often distinguish these tumors from one another; however, some cases may be more difficult to differentiate. This study compares patterns of cavernous segment internal carotid artery (CS-ICA) stenosis between the two tumor types to establish a novel radiographic method of differentiation.
METHODS: A retrospective analysis of patients with pathology-confirmed meningioma and pituitary adenomas at Tufts Medical Center was performed. The diameter of the CS-ICA at the narrowest point within the cavernous sinus was measured and compared to the ipsilateral petrous segment ICA and contralateral CS-ICA. The mean and range of percent stenosis and frequency of cases of CS-ICA stenosis >15% were determined. Statistical analysis to compare the groups was conducted using the Chi-squared test, Fisher's exact test, and t-test.
RESULTS: There were a total of 78 out of 231 patients who were included in the study. The mean % ICA stenosis for all meningiomas was 9.3%, with increasing stenosis with increasing World Health Organization grade. Of all meningioma cases, 13 (33%) had greater than 15% ICA stenosis. Mean ICA stenosis for pituitary adenomas was -1.48%. There were no cases of pituitary adenomas causing ICA stenosis >15%.
CONCLUSIONS: Differentiating pituitary adenomas and intracavernous meningioma tumors can have important implications on surgical approach and outcome. Our study found that stenosis of the CS-ICA greater than 15% is highly specific to meningiomas and can serve as a radiologic sign to distinguish between these two tumors.

Citation: Dincer A, et al. Cavernous segment internal carotid artery stenosis specific to meningiomas compared to pituitary adenomas. Cavernous segment internal carotid artery stenosis specific to meningiomas compared to pituitary adenomas. 2023; 33:73-78. doi: 10.1111/jon.13051

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36117152/
