PMID: 36123760
Title: Measurement of Stricture Dimensions Using a Visual Comparative Estimation Method With Biopsy Forceps During Endoscopy.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Estimation of the dimensions of endoscopic findings such as stricture diameter is largely subjective. Accurate assessment of stricture dimensions has multiple benefits including facilitating the choice of appropriately sized endoscopic therapies for treating stricture, properly tracking response to endoscopic therapies between procedures, and potentially even predicting outcomes of endoscopic therapy.
METHODS: Endoscopies performed in children with repaired esophageal atresia between August 2019 and August 2021 for which both (1) an endoscopic estimate of esophageal stricture diameter obtained by visual comparison with the known dimensions of the biopsy forceps and (2) an intraoperative esophageal fluoroscopy study were performed were included for analysis. Fluoroscopic stricture diameter measurements were manually obtained using a software ruler tool calibrated to the known dimensions of the intraluminal endoscope. Statistical concordance was calculated between the visual diameter estimates and the standard fluoroscopic stricture measurements.
RESULTS: One hundred ninety-one endoscopies were included for analysis. Lin's concordance correlation coefficient was 0.92 (95% confidence interval: 0.89-0.94) between the visual diameter estimates and the fluoroscopic stricture measurements. Correlation was strongest for smaller to mid-sized stricture diameters.
CONCLUSIONS: Use of the biopsy forceps as a visual reference of known dimensions enables accurate visual estimation of esophageal stricture diameter during endoscopy using commonly available tools, with high concordance with standard fluoroscopic measurement techniques.

Citation: Yasuda JL, et al. Measurement of Stricture Dimensions Using a Visual Comparative Estimation Method With Biopsy Forceps During Endoscopy. Measurement of Stricture Dimensions Using a Visual Comparative Estimation Method With Biopsy Forceps During Endoscopy. 2023; 76:77-79. doi: 10.1097/MPG.0000000000003625

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36123760/
