PMID: 36128112
Title: Therapeutic strategy of severe circular calcified carotid plaque with hemodynamic impairment: A patient treated by carotid endarterectomy following balloon angioplasty to prevent hyperperfusion.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Cerebral hyperperfusion syndrome (HPS) is a serious complication. Recently, staged angioplasty has been reported as an effective strategy to avoid HPS. Severe calcification has been reported as contraindication of carotid artery stenting (CAS). In these cases, carotid endarterectomy (CEA) might be an alternative second stage treatment. We present a case of severe circular calcified plaque with hemodynamic impairments, treated with CEA following percutaneous transluminal angioplasty (PTA) to prevent HPS.
CASE DESCRIPTION: A 77-year-old woman presented with severe stenosis at the proximal left internal carotid artery. A CT scan of the neck demonstrated circular calcification. 123I-iodoamphetamine single-photon emission computed tomography (123I-IMP SPECT) showed reductions in cerebral blood flow (CBF) and cerebral vascular reserve in the left hemisphere. Staged therapy was subsequently performed as this patient had a high risk of HPS after conventional CAS or CEA. In the first stage, PTA was performed under local anesthesia. Two days after the procedure, 123I-IMP SPECT revealed improvements in CBF. There were no neurological morbidities. CEA was then performed under general anesthesia 7 days later, for the second stage. We found a calcified plaque with a large thrombus at its proximal end. A hematoxylin-eosin stain of the thrombus showed mostly intact and partially lytic blood cells. Postoperative 123I-IMP SPECT revealed CBF was improved, with no hyperperfusion immediately and 2 days after CEA. The patient was discharged with no neurological deficits.
CONCLUSION: CEA following PTA for severe circular calcified plaque can be an alternative treatment strategy to prevent HPS. A disadvantage is the formation of thrombi. Early CEA should be considered if thrombus formation is suspected.

Citation: Marutani T, et al. Therapeutic strategy of severe circular calcified carotid plaque with hemodynamic impairment: A patient treated by carotid endarterectomy following balloon angioplasty to prevent hyperperfusion. Therapeutic strategy of severe circular calcified carotid plaque with hemodynamic impairment: A patient treated by carotid endarterectomy following balloon angioplasty to prevent hyperperfusion. 2022; 13:360. doi: 10.25259/SNI_417_2022

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36128112/
