PMID: 36127977
Title: Vertebral Artery Stenosis: A Narrative Review.

Abstract: Vertebral artery stenosis (VAS) is the cause of approximately 20% of ischemic strokes in the posterior circulation. There are several causes of vertebral artery stenosis, including atherosclerosis, calcification, dissections, fibromuscular dysplasia, giant cell arteritis, neurofibromatosis type 1, and bony compressions. The most common cause of VAS is atherosclerosis which is derived from the macrophage-induced oxidation of low-density lipoproteins (LDLs), alongside the accumulation of cholesterol. Calcification of the vertebral artery occurs when there is excess calcium and phosphate deposition in the vessel. Dissection of the vertebral artery can lead to the formation of a hematoma causing stenosis of the vertebral artery. Fibromuscular dysplasia can result in stenosis due to the deposition of collagen fibers in the tunica media, intima, or adventitia. Giant cell arteritis, an autoimmune disorder, causes inflammation of the internal elastic membrane resulting in eventual stenosis of the artery. Neurofibromatosis type 1, an autosomal dominant disorder, results in the stenosis of the vertebral artery due to the altered function of neurofibromin. Mechanical compression of the vertebral artery by bone can also cause stenosis of the vertebral artery. Digital subtraction angiography (DSA) is considered the current gold standard in diagnosing vertebral artery stenosis; however, its associated morbidity and mortality have led to increased use of non-invasive techniques such as duplex ultrasonography (DUS), computed tomography angiography (CTA), and magnetic resonance angiography (MRA). Currently, asymptomatic and symptomatic vertebral artery stenoses are treated by risk factor modification and medical treatment. However, it is recommended that surgical (endarterectomy, reconstruction, and decompression) and endovascular (balloon coronary, bare-metal, and drug-eluting stents) treatments are also used for symptomatic vertebral artery stenosis.

Citation: Burle VS, et al. Vertebral Artery Stenosis: A Narrative Review. Vertebral Artery Stenosis: A Narrative Review. 2022; 14:e28068. doi: 10.7759/cureus.28068

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36127977/
