PMID: 36129368
Title: Fetal echocardiography and early neonatal balloon valvuloplasty improved overall survival in prenatally detected aortic stenosis over 25 years of tertiary center experience.

Abstract: PURPOSE: This article aimed to present the factors determining survival and prognosis in fetuses and newborns with critical prenatal aortic stenosis (AS) and to present 26 years of tertiary center experience.
METHODS: Study included 87 fetuses with critical AS requiring surgical intervention during neonatal period. All results were expressed as means ± SD, in numbers and percentages. The statistically significant results were those with p < 0.05.
RESULTS: An increase in the number of cases of AS was observed in our center along with a decrease in gestational age of our patients during the first echocardiographic exam. The survival rate of newborns was considerably higher when born in due time (p < 0.05) with body weight > 2500 g (p < 0.05). Balloon valvuloplasty performed in the first days after birth occurred to be an optimal solution in these cases.
CONCLUSIONS: Fetal echocardiography and special perinatal care with transplacental maternal pharmacotherapy in selected cases and an early neonatal aortic balloon valvuloplasty have shown improvement in survival rate. The most dangerous for the newborn with AS was the first week of postnatal life. It is vital to refer the fetuses with AS to the reference centers which offer the possibility of invasive cardiac intervention on the first day after birth, and it might be an optimal solution.

Citation: Sylwestrzak O, et al. Fetal echocardiography and early neonatal balloon valvuloplasty improved overall survival in prenatally detected aortic stenosis over 25 years of tertiary center experience. Fetal echocardiography and early neonatal balloon valvuloplasty improved overall survival in prenatally detected aortic stenosis over 25 years of tertiary center experience. 2022; 50:1279-1285. doi: 10.1002/jcu.23339

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36129368/
