PMID: 36128168
Title: A case of refractory chronic subdural hematoma and internal carotid artery stenosis sequentially treated with surgical drainage, middle meningeal artery embolization, and carotid artery stenting.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Both chronic subdural hematoma (CSDH) and ischemic cerebrovascular disease are commonplace in the clinical context, and their combination is sometimes experienced. We describe a unique and challenging case in which both therapeutic interventions were indispensable and performed in a sequential manner. This report aims to discuss the management of hemorrhagic and ischemic conditions where CSDH and carotid artery stenosis coexist.
CASE DESCRIPTION: An 83-year-old male presented with the left cerebral infarction due to the left internal carotid artery (ICA) stenosis. The coexisting left CSDH was surgically drained first. Then, the left middle meningeal artery (MMA) was endovascularly embolized to prevent hematoma recurrence under antiplatelet therapy, before the left carotid artery stenting (CAS) was successfully conducted. The subdural hematoma gradually grew but remained asymptomatic. However, he later presented with another stroke due to the progressive right ICA stenosis that had been conservatively treated initially. Emergency right CAS was required eventually.
CONCLUSION: Under the circumstances where CSDH is present but antiplatelet therapy is inevitable, MMA embolization could be a reasonable treatment option to avoid additional surgical procedures. Furthermore, early intervention should be considered even for asymptomatic carotid stenosis in terms of shortening the administration period of antiplatelet agents.

Citation: Imai R, et al. A case of refractory chronic subdural hematoma and internal carotid artery stenosis sequentially treated with surgical drainage, middle meningeal artery embolization, and carotid artery stenting. A case of refractory chronic subdural hematoma and internal carotid artery stenosis sequentially treated with surgical drainage, middle meningeal artery embolization, and carotid artery stenting. 2022; 13:342. doi: 10.25259/SNI_505_2022

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36128168/
