PMID: 36135441
Title: Transcatheter Double Valve Replacement to Treat Aortic Stenosis and Severe Tricuspid Regurgitation with 3D Printing Guidance after Mechanical Mitral Valve Replacement.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Transcatheter treatments of tricuspid regurgitation (TR) have been emerging as alternatives for high-risk patients. In contrast to the immobilization of the common transcatheter tricuspid device, using a radial force-independent stent valve device at the native tricuspid annular site has several distinct advantages.
CASE SUMMARY: A 76-year-old patient with renal insufficiency who underwent mechanical mitral valve replacement in 2001 and transcatheter aortic valve replacement in 2021 due to severe aortic stenosis presented with chest pain and shortness of breath. Echocardiography suggested that the flow velocities of the mitral mechanical valve and aortic prosthetic valve were both within the normal range, with no significant paravalvular regurgitation; the tricuspid valve exhibited massive regurgitation (VMAX 258 cm/s, PGMAX 27 mmHg). Due to the high surgical risk, we simulated the procedure with a three-dimensional (3D)-printed model and performed transcatheter tricuspid valve replacement using a LuX-Valve (Ningbo Jenscare Biotechnology Co., Ningbo, China).
DISCUSSION: We describe transcatheter tricuspid valve replacement using the LuX-Valve and preprocedural guidance with 3D printing. Postprocedural TR was significantly reduced, indicating that 3D printing plays an important role in preprocedural guidance and that the LuX-Valve was safe and practicable for tricuspid valve replacement.

Citation: Zhai M, et al. Transcatheter Double Valve Replacement to Treat Aortic Stenosis and Severe Tricuspid Regurgitation with 3D Printing Guidance after Mechanical Mitral Valve Replacement. Transcatheter Double Valve Replacement to Treat Aortic Stenosis and Severe Tricuspid Regurgitation with 3D Printing Guidance after Mechanical Mitral Valve Replacement. 2022; 9:(unknown pages). doi: 10.3390/jcdd9090296

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36135441/
