PMID: 36136152
Title: How we do it-the use of peritoneal patches for reconstruction of vena cava inferior and portal vein in hepatopancreatobiliary surgery.

Abstract: PURPOSE: Extended resections in hepatopancreatobiliary (HPB) surgery frequently require vascular resection to obtain tumor clearance. The use of alloplastic grafts may increase postoperative morbidity due to septic or thrombotic complications. The use of suitable autologous venous interponates (internal jugular vein, great saphenous vein) is frequently associated with additional incisions. The aim of this study was to report on our experience with venous reconstruction using the introperative easily available parietal peritoneum, focusing on key technical aspects.
METHODS: All patients who underwent HPB resections with venous reconstruction using peritoneal patches at our department between January 2017 and November 2021 were included in this retrospective analysis with median follow-up of 2 months (IQR: 1-8 months). We focused on technical aspects of the procedure and evaluated vascular patency and perioperative morbidity.
RESULTS: Parietal peritoneum patches (PPPs) were applied for reconstruction of the inferior vena cava (IVC) (13 patients) and portal vein (PV) (4 patients) during major hepatic (n = 14) or pancreatic (n = 2) resections. There were no cases of postoperative bleeding due to anastomotic leakage. Following PV reconstruction, two patients showed postoperative vascular stenosis after severe pancreatitis with postoperative pancreatic fistula and bile leakage, respectively. In patients with reconstruction of the IVC, no relevant perioperative vascular complications occurred.
CONCLUSIONS: The use of a peritoneal patch for reconstruction of the IVC in HPB surgery is a feasible, effective, and low-cost alternative to alloplastic, xenogenous, or venous grafts. The graft can be easily harvested and tailored to the required size. More evidence is still needed to confirm the safety of this procedure for the portal vein regarding long-term results.

Citation: Radulova-Mauersberger O, et al. How we do it-the use of peritoneal patches for reconstruction of vena cava inferior and portal vein in hepatopancreatobiliary surgery. How we do it-the use of peritoneal patches for reconstruction of vena cava inferior and portal vein in hepatopancreatobiliary surgery. 2022; 407:3819-3831. doi: 10.1007/s00423-022-02662-x

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36136152/
