PMID: 36148255
Title: Risk Factors for Hospital Readmission Post-Transcatheter Aortic Valve Implantation in the Contemporary Era: A Systematic Review.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Despite transcatheter aortic valve implantation (TAVI) becoming a widely accepted therapeutic option for the management of aortic stenosis, post-procedure readmission rates remain high. Rehospitalization is associated with negative patient outcomes, as well as increased healthcare costs, and has therefore been identified as an important target for quality improvement. Strategies to reduce the post-TAVI readmission rate are needed but require the identification of patients at high risk for rehospitalization. Our systematic review aims to identify predictors of post-procedure readmission in patients eligible for TAVI.
METHODS: We conducted a comprehensive search of the MEDLINE, Embase, and Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL) databases for the time period from 2015 to the present for articles evaluating risk factors for rehospitalization post-TAVI with a follow-up period of at least 30 days in adults age ≥ 70 years with aortic stenosis. The quality of included studies was evaluated using the Newcastle-Ottawa Scale. We present the results as a qualitative narrative review.
RESULTS: We identified 49 studies involving 828,528 patients. Post-TAVI readmission is frequent, and rates vary (14.9% to 54.3% at 1 year). The most-frequent predictors identified for both 30-day and 1-year post-TAVI readmission are atrial fibrillation, lung disease, renal disease, diabetes mellitus, in-hospital life-threatening bleeding, and non-femoral access.
CONCLUSIONS: This systematic review identifies the most-common predictors for 30-day and 1-year readmission post-TAVI, including comorbidities and potentially modifiable procedural approaches and complications. These predictors can be used to identify patients at high-risk for readmission who are most likely to benefit from increased support and follow-up post-TAVI.

Citation: Patel RV, et al. Risk Factors for Hospital Readmission Post-Transcatheter Aortic Valve Implantation in the Contemporary Era: A Systematic Review. Risk Factors for Hospital Readmission Post-Transcatheter Aortic Valve Implantation in the Contemporary Era: A Systematic Review. 2022; 4:792-801. doi: 10.1016/j.cjco.2022.05.007

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36148255/
