PMID: 36143238
Title: CT-Diagnosed Sarcopenia and Cardiovascular Biomarkers in Patients Undergoing Transcatheter Aortic Valve Replacement: Is It Possible to Predict Muscle Loss Based on Laboratory Tests?-A Multicentric Retrospective Analysis.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Patients with severe aortic valve stenosis (AS) often present with heart failure and sarcopenia. Sarcopenia, described as progressive degradation of skeletal muscle mass, has frequently been implicated as a cause of increased mortality, prolonged hospitalization and generalized poor outcome after transcatheter aortic valve replacement (TAVR). At present, sarcopenia is defined by the European Working Group on Sarcopenia in Older People (EWGSOP) based on clinical examination criteria and radiological imaging. The aim of the present study was to compare patients with Computed Tomography (CT)-diagnosed sarcopenia with regard to the expression of cardiovascular biomarkers in order to obtain additional, laboratory-chemical information.
METHODS: A total of 179 patients with severe AS were included in this retrospective study. Sarcopenia was determined via CT by measurement of the psoas muscle area (PMA), which was indexed to body surface area (PMAi). According to previous studies, the lowest tertile was defined as sarcopenic. Patients with (59/179) and without sarcopenia (120/179) in the overall cohort were compared by gender-specific cut-offs with regard to the expression of cardiovascular biomarkers such as brain natriuretic peptide (BNP), soluble suppression of tumorigenicity-2 (sST2), growth/differentiation of factor-15 (GDF-15), heart-type fatty-acid binding protein (H-FABP), insulin like growth factor binding protein 2 (IGF-BP2) and soluble urokinase-type plasminogen activator receptor (suPAR). Additionally, binary logistic regression analyses were calculated to detect possible predictors of the presence of sarcopenia.
RESULTS: No statistical differences regarding one-year survival could be detected between sarcopenic and non-sarcopenic patients in survival curves (log rank test p = 0.179). In the entire cohort, only BNP and hemoglobin (HB) showed a statistically significant difference, with only HB emerging as a relevant predictor for the presence of sarcopenia after binary logistic regression analysis (p = 0.015). No relevant difference in biomarker expression could be found in the male cohort. Regarding the female cohort, statistically significant differences were found in BNP, HB and hematocrit (HK). In binary logistic regression, however, none of the investigated criteria could be related to sarcopenia.
CONCLUSION: Regardless of gender, patients with imaging-based muscle degradation did not demonstrate significantly different cardiovascular biomarker expression compared to those without it.

Citation: Hecht S, et al. CT-Diagnosed Sarcopenia and Cardiovascular Biomarkers in Patients Undergoing Transcatheter Aortic Valve Replacement: Is It Possible to Predict Muscle Loss Based on Laboratory Tests?-A Multicentric Retrospective Analysis. CT-Diagnosed Sarcopenia and Cardiovascular Biomarkers in Patients Undergoing Transcatheter Aortic Valve Replacement: Is It Possible to Predict Muscle Loss Based on Laboratory Tests?-A Multicentric Retrospective Analysis. 2022; 12:(unknown pages). doi: 10.3390/jpm12091453

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36143238/
