PMID: 36147019
Title: Use of Shockwave Intravascular Lithotripsy in Recanalization of Calcified Visceral and Renal Arteries: A Case Report and Update of the Literature.

Abstract: PURPOSE: Calcifications of the visceral and renal arteries lead to chronic mesenteric ischemia and renal artery stenosis, and both open and endovascular treatments can be proposed. Intravascular lithotripsy (IVL) has emerged as a novel technique used in peripheral and coronary interventions.
CASE REPORT: A 73-year-old man presented with chronic postprandial abdominal pain and weight loss. Computed-tomography-angiography (CTA) showed 93% calcified stenosis of the superior mesenteric artery (SMA). The plain old balloon angioplasty (POBA) was affected by immediate recoiling. The patient underwent ShockwaveTM IVL of the SMA via brachial access and stent-graft implantation. At 3-months follow-up, the patient showed symptoms resolution.
CONCLUSIONS: The use of Shockwave IVL can be an effective treatment for severely calcified SMA stenosis. A similar approach can be employed in both celiac and renal arteries as reported in 11 cases in literature and herein summarized. Intravascular lithotripsy resulted in high technical success and uneventful follow-up. However, given the small number of patients reported, larger studies are needed to confirm these findings.
CLINICAL IMPACT: This article reports a case of recanalization of superior mesenteric artery with heavily calcified lesion treated with intravascular lithotripsy (IVL) with Shockwave™ Intravascular Lithotripsy Balloon (Shockwave Medical Inc., Santa Clara, CA, USA). Beside, for the first time, we summarize the Literature on the use of IVL in the renal and visceral arteries district, providing indications, applications and useful hints for the endovascular treatment of chronic mesenteric ischemia and renal artery stenosis. This preliminary data show straightforward applicability, high technical success, and uneventful follow-up and IVL can be proposed as an useful tool for challenging revascularization of heavily calcified reno-visceral arteries.

Citation: Spath P, et al. Use of Shockwave Intravascular Lithotripsy in Recanalization of Calcified Visceral and Renal Arteries: A Case Report and Update of the Literature. Use of Shockwave Intravascular Lithotripsy in Recanalization of Calcified Visceral and Renal Arteries: A Case Report and Update of the Literature. 2024; 31:485-490. doi: 10.1177/15266028221125157

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36147019/
