PMID: 36158884
Title: Effect of Simultaneous Multiplane Surgery on Cardiopulmonary Function in Patients with Moderate to Severe Obstructive Sleep Apnea-Hypopnea Syndrome and Its Curative Effect.

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: To investigate the changes in cardiopulmonary function in patients with obstructive sleep apnea-hypopnea syndrome (OSAHS) by one-stage multiplane surgery.
METHODS: 70 patients with moderate and severe OSAHS underwent nasal in our hospital from July 2017 to February 2021, palatopharyngeal, and/or tongue operations simultaneously and were followed up for 6 months. The Epworth Sleeping Scale (ESS) scores of patients before and after surgery were compared to observe the surgical efficacy, and the changes in the cardiopulmonary function of patients before and after surgery were detected. The static and dynamic indexes of cardiopulmonary function, respiratory disturbance index (AHI), and blood oxygen saturation (SaO<sub>2</sub>) were compared before and after the operation.
RESULTS: After surgery, all patients' indexes of static lung function were improved compared with that before surgery. After surgery, the percentage of maximal oxygen uptake peak to the predicted value, percentage of oxygen pulse to the predicted value, the ratio of oxygen uptake power, anaerobic threshold, and maximum ventilatory capacity per minute/maximum exercise volume were increased compared with that before surgery, and AHI and SaO<sub>2</sub> were improved compared with that before surgery.
CONCLUSION: This study suggests that it is feasible for patients with OSAHS who are unable to tolerate or unwilling to undergo noninvasive assisted ventilation to undergo simultaneous surgery for multiplane stenosis. It can reduce clinical symptoms and improve cardiopulmonary function.

Citation: Gong M and Shao J. Effect of Simultaneous Multiplane Surgery on Cardiopulmonary Function in Patients with Moderate to Severe Obstructive Sleep Apnea-Hypopnea Syndrome and Its Curative Effect. Effect of Simultaneous Multiplane Surgery on Cardiopulmonary Function in Patients with Moderate to Severe Obstructive Sleep Apnea-Hypopnea Syndrome and Its Curative Effect. 2022; 2022:9241635. doi: 10.1155/2022/9241635

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36158884/
