PMID: 36150933
Title: Magnamosis for long gap esophageal atresia: Minimally invasive "fatal attraction".

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Aim of study is to report our preliminary experience with magnetic anastomosis (magnamosis) treating long-gap esophageal atresia (LGEA), the most challenging condition of esophageal atresia continuum. Magnamosis has been reported in 20 patients worldwide as an innovative and marginally invasive option.
METHODS: Prospective evaluation of all LGEA patients treated with magnamosis was performed (study registration number: 2535/2021). Main outcomes considered were demographic and surgical features, postoperative complications and feeding within 6-month of follow-up.
RESULTS: Between June 2020 and January 2021, 5 LGEA patients (Type A, Gross classification) were treated. Median preoperative gap was 5 vertebral bodies. Magnetic bullets were placed at an average age of 81 days of life, leading to successful magnamosis in all cases: 4 infants had primary magnetic repair (one after thoracoscopic mobilization of the pouches), 1 patient had a delayed magnamosis after Foker's procedure. Esophageal anastomosis was achieved after an average of 8 days. No anastomotic leak was found. All patients developed anastomotic stenosis at 6-month follow-up, requiring a mean of 6 dilations each. Full oral feeding was achieved in 3 patients, while 2 were still on oral-gastrostomy feeding. One patient experienced small esophageal perforation after dilation (3 months after magnamosis), distal to the anastomotic stricture and subsequently developed oral aversion.
CONCLUSIONS: Our preliminary results suggest magnamosis a safe and effective minimally invasive option in patients with LGEA. Absence of postoperative esophageal leaks may represent a major advantage of magnamosis over conventional surgery, although possible high rate of esophageal stenosis should be further evaluated.
LEVELS OF EVIDENCE: IV (Case series with no comparison group).

Citation: Conforti A, et al. Magnamosis for long gap esophageal atresia: Minimally invasive "fatal attraction". Magnamosis for long gap esophageal atresia: Minimally invasive "fatal attraction". 2023; 58:405-411. doi: 10.1016/j.jpedsurg.2022.08.018

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36150933/
