PMID: 36154316
Title: Drug-Coated Balloon Angioplasty for Carotid Artery In-Stent Restenosis: Case Series.

Abstract: OBJECTIVES: Few case reports have demonstrated promising results of drug-coated balloons (DCBs) as an emerging management for carotid artery in-stent restenosis (CAISR). Herein, we report 6 cases of CAISR which were treated with a DCB with or without new stent deployment.
BACKGROUND: Carotid artery in-stent restenosis is a high-risk condition with an estimated incidence rate that varies widely from 6% to 40%. Several strategies are available now for the management of the CAISR including conventional balloon angioplasty, plaque modification balloon angioplasty, and new stent placement.
METHODS: A retrospective review of consecutive patients with a diagnosis of severe CAISR at Baylor Scott & White The Heart Hospital Plano from 2011 to 2021 was performed. This study was approved by the Baylor Scott & White Research Institute institutional review board.
RESULTS: Six patients underwent DCB angioplasty with or without stent placement under an embolic protection device. Resolution of CAISR was achieved in all cases with 0% to 10% residual stenosis in all cases. Following the procedure, 1 patient had a brief episode of syncope with balloon inflation with immediate recovery on deflation of the balloon. There were otherwise no significant neurological or cardiac events prior to discharge. All patients were asymptomatic at their follow-up visit with no neurological or cardiac events reported at 12, 24, and 36 months following the procedure.
CONCLUSION: While CAISR treatment remains a challenging condition, our study shows that the use of DCB with or without stent placement is a feasible and promising treatment option when compared with other conventional treatment options.
CLINICAL IMPACT: Carotid artery in-stent restenosis treatment remains a challenging condition. Our study shows that the use of drug coated balloon with or without stent placement is a feasible and promising treatment option when compared with current conventional treatment options.

Citation: Eljack A, et al. Drug-Coated Balloon Angioplasty for Carotid Artery In-Stent Restenosis: Case Series. Drug-Coated Balloon Angioplasty for Carotid Artery In-Stent Restenosis: Case Series. 2024; 31:305-311. doi: 10.1177/15266028221120763

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36154316/
