PMID: 36158009
Title: Updated clinical and glycomic features of mannosyl-oligosaccharide glucosidase deficiency: Two case reports.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Mannosyl-oligosaccharide glucosidase (MOGS) deficiency is an extremely rare type of congenital disorder of glycosylation (CDG), with only 12 reported cases. Its clinical, genetic, and glycomic features are still expanding. Our aim is to update the novel clinical and glycosylation features of 2 previously reported patients with MOGS-CDG.
CASE SUMMARY: We collected comprehensive clinical information, and conducted the immunoglobulin G1 glycosylation assay using nano-electrospray ionization source quadruple time-of-flight mass spectrometry. Novel dysmorphic features included an enlarged tongue, forwardly rotated earlobes, a birth mark, overlapped toes, and abnormal fat distribution. Novel imaging findings included pericardial effusion, a deep interarytenoid groove, mild congenital subglottic stenosis, and laryngomalacia. Novel laboratory findings included peripheral leukocytosis with neutrophil predominance, elevated C-reactive protein and creatine kinase, dyslipidemia, coagulopathy, complement 3 and complement 4 deficiencies, decreased proportions of T lymphocytes and natural killer cells, and increased serum interleukin 6. Glycosylation studies showed a significant increase of hypermannosylated glycopeptides (Glc3Man7GlcNAc2/N2H10 and Man5GlcNAc2/N2H5) and hypersialylated glycopeptides. A compensatory glycosylation pathway leading to an increase in Man5GlcNAc2/N2H5 was indicated with the glycosylation profile.
CONCLUSION: We confirmed abnormal glycomics in 1 patient, expanding the clinical and glycomic spectrum of MOGS-CDG. We also postulated a compensatory glycosylation pathway, leading to a possible serum biomarker for future diagnosis.

Citation: Abuduxikuer K, et al. Updated clinical and glycomic features of mannosyl-oligosaccharide glucosidase deficiency: Two case reports. Updated clinical and glycomic features of mannosyl-oligosaccharide glucosidase deficiency: Two case reports. 2022; 10:7397-7408. doi: 10.12998/wjcc.v10.i21.7397

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36158009/
