PMID: 36168361
Title: True Angina Pectoris Immediately After Cervical Disc Herniation Surgery for Preoperative Cervical Angina Symptoms: A Case Report.

Abstract: Cervical angina, originating from cervical spine disorders, is a rare clinical syndrome presenting with chest pain mimicking angina pectoris. A rare case of cervical angina with cervical disc herniation requiring coronary artery stenting because of a true angina pectoris attack immediately after cervical spine surgery is reported. A 77-year-old woman presented with persistent pain around the neck, bilateral chest, left shoulder, and left back. She also complained of numbness and motor weakness in her left upper limb. Cervical spine imaging examinations showed instability at C4-5 and a calcified herniated disc with spinal cord compression at C4-6. She had a history of hypertension, diabetes mellitus not requiring insulin, and atrial fibrillation for which she was on anticoagulant therapy. The preoperative electrocardiogram and transthoracic echocardiography were within normal limits, and thus further cardiac study was considered unnecessary by the cardiologist. The anterior cervical discectomy and fusion were safely performed. However, she suddenly started to complain of left anterior chest pain with a cold sweat one hour after the surgery. An emergency electrocardiogram showed ischemic changes, and coronary angiography showed 99% stenosis at the right main coronary artery. A coronary stent was placed and good dilatation was achieved. Preoperative cervical angina symptoms such as numbness, motor weakness, and pain were improved immediately after surgery. The left chest pain also disappeared completely after coronary artery stent placement. Postoperative cervical imaging assessments showed good spinal decompression. She was discharged home without neurological deficits and no cardiac symptoms.

Citation: Abe T, et al. True Angina Pectoris Immediately After Cervical Disc Herniation Surgery for Preoperative Cervical Angina Symptoms: A Case Report. True Angina Pectoris Immediately After Cervical Disc Herniation Surgery for Preoperative Cervical Angina Symptoms: A Case Report. 2022; 14:e28313. doi: 10.7759/cureus.28313

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36168361/
