PMID: 36166954
Title: Application of an antibody microarray for serum protein profiling of coronary artery stenosis.

Abstract: Protein expression profiling in the serum is used to identify novel biomarkers and investigate the signaling pathways in various diseases. The aim of the present study was to evaluate serum biomarkers associated with coronary artery stenosis resulting from atherosclerosis. The study included 4 groups of subjects: group A and B with and without coronary lesions, respectively, were selected from a previously reported cohort study on coronary atherosclerosis, control group C comprised of asymptomatic subjects and group D was used for independent validation of the microarray data by ELISA. Labeled serum proteins were profiled by an Explorer antibody array, which included 656 specific antibodies in two replicates (FullMoon Biosystems, USA). Cadherin-P, interleukin-5, glutathione S-transferase Mu, and neuronal nitric oxide synthase were sex-independently increased in Group A compared with those in group B. The microarray data on cadherin-P were externally validated in an independent group D using ELISA. Fibroblast growth factor-1, FGF-2, collagen II, granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor, IL-1 alpha, angiopoietin-2, granulocyte colony-stimulating factor, lymphocyte cell-specific protein tyrosine kinase, and IkappaB kinase b were increase in men in group A compared with group B. Cyclin-dependent kinase 1, DNA fragmentation factor subunit alpha DFF45/ICAD, adenovirus type 2 E1A, calponin, ADP-ribosylation factor-6, muscle-specific actin, thyroid hormone receptor alpha, and alpha-methylacyl-CoA racemase were specifically increased in women in Group A compared with group B. Alterations in the levels of specific proteins may point to the signaling pathways contributing to coronary atherosclerosis, and these proteins will be useful biomarkers for the progression of cardiovascular diseases.

Citation: Gumanova NG, et al. Application of an antibody microarray for serum protein profiling of coronary artery stenosis. Application of an antibody microarray for serum protein profiling of coronary artery stenosis. 2022; 631:55-63. doi: 10.1016/j.bbrc.2022.09.053

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36166954/
