PMID: 36163678
Title: Effects of Expression of Matrix Metalloproteinases and Discoidin Domain Receptors in Ligamentum Flavum Fibrosis in Patients with Degenerative Lumbar Canal Stenosis.

Abstract: STUDY DESIGN: This is a retrospective cohort study.
PURPOSE: This study aimed to clarify the role of crosstalk between discoidin domain receptors (DDRs) and matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs) in the ligamentum flavum (LF) fibrosis obtained from patients with degenerative lumbar canal stenosis (DLCS).
OVERVIEW OF LITERATURE: The DDRs, DDR1 and DDR2, are cell surface receptors and have an essential role in collagen fiber accumulation in several fibrotic diseases. MMPs are one of the critical factors in extracellular matrix remodeling and elastic fiber degradation in LF tissues. However, the crosstalk between DDRs and MMPs and the role of this molecular signal in LF fibrosis remain unclear.
METHODS: A total of 35 patients were divided into two groups in this study. Spinal surgery was performed in 23 of these patients with the diagnosis of DLCS. Twelve patients with lumbar disk herniation (LDH) were included in the control group. On axial T2-weighted magnetic resonance imaging, LF thickness was measured bilaterally at the level of the facet joint. Histology, quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR), and Western blot analyses were performed on LF tissue samples. LF tissues were stained with hematoxylin and eosin. In addition, the grade of fibrosis was histologically assessed using Masson trichrome triple staining. DDR1 and DDR2 Western blot analyses were performed. DDR1, DDR2, MMP2, MMP3, MMP9, and MMP13 expression levels were measured using qRT-PCR analysis.
RESULTS: The grade of fibrosis and LF thickness were significantly higher in the DLCS patients than in the LDH patients. DDR1 and DDR2 gene expression and protein levels in LF tissues are significantly greater in DLCS samples than in control samples, according to both qRT-PCR and Western blot analyses. In addition, we detected a significant expression of the MMP3, MMP9, and MMP13, which are known to have important roles in extracellular matrix remodeling in DLCS. Furthermore, we discovered a link between DDR protein levels and LF thickness, fibrosis, and MMP3/MMP9.
CONCLUSIONS: Our results indicate that DDR1, DDR2, and MMP3 and MMP9 signals can be correlated with each other in LF tissues and be promoted LF fibrosis leading to spinal canal narrowing in patients with DLCS.

Citation: Torun YM, et al. Effects of Expression of Matrix Metalloproteinases and Discoidin Domain Receptors in Ligamentum Flavum Fibrosis in Patients with Degenerative Lumbar Canal Stenosis. Effects of Expression of Matrix Metalloproteinases and Discoidin Domain Receptors in Ligamentum Flavum Fibrosis in Patients with Degenerative Lumbar Canal Stenosis. 2023; 17:194-202. doi: 10.31616/asj.2021.0380

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36163678/
