PMID: 36174454
Title: Euonymine inhibits in-stent restenosis through enhancing contractile phenotype of vascular smooth muscle cells via modulating the PTEN/AKT/mTOR signaling pathway.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) is an effective treatment for acute myocardial infarction, but the postoperative in-stent re-stenosis (ISR) remains a major risk factor that affects the prognosis of PCI. Clinically, drug-eluting stents (DES) are widely applied to prevent and treat ISR. However, only a few stent coating drugs are currently available for clinical use, including paclitaxel and rapamycin (sirolimus) and their derivatives. These stent-coated drugs have led to a decrease in restenosis rates, but the major adverse outcomes, such as delayed endothelial healing and increased in-stent thrombosis, seriously reduce their therapeutic effects.
PURPOSE: Herein, we explored the potential efficacy of Euonymine (Euo), an alkaloid extracted from Tripterygium Hypoglaucum (Levl) Hutch (THH, Lei gong Teng), for the prevention against ISR after PCI.
STUDY DESIGN: Our study depicts the potential efficacy of Euo in treating ISR and explores its mechanism with in vitro and in vivo models.
METHODS: Primary vascular smooth muscle cells (VSMCs) from the rabbit thoracic aorta were cultured, and the proliferation and migration of VSMCs were monitored. Apoptosis was measured by Transmission Electron Microscopy and TUNEL staining assay. Protein and gene levels were measured to explore the underlying molecular mechanisms. In vivo models of porcine coronary implantation and rabbit carotid balloon injury are used to validate the efficacy of Euo in inhibiting ISR after PCI.
RESULTS: With an ox-LDL-injured cell model, we showed that Euo suppressed the proliferation and migration of the rabbit thoracic aorta primary VSMCs, while inducing their apoptosis. We next established a rabbit carotid balloon injury model in which the phosphorylation levels of PI3K and AKT1 (Ser473) as well as mTOR activity were significantly elevated compared to the sham-operated control. These activities were significantly attenuated by the Euo intervention. Additionally, the balloon angioplasty significantly increased the expression of Bcl-2, while decreased the expression of Bax and caspase-3. Euo intervention significantly increased the ratio of Bax/Bcl-2 and the level of caspase-3. Taken together, Euo may enhance the VSMCs contractile phenotype by modulating the PTEN/AKT/mTOR signaling pathway. Furthermore, with two in vivo models, the porcine coronary artery implantation model, and the rabbit carotid balloon injury model, we demonstrated that Euo-eluting stents indeed inhibited ISR after PCI.
CONCLUSION: For the first time, this study delineates the potential efficacy of Euo, derived from Tripterygium Hypoglaucum (Levl) Hutch, in ameliorating ISR after PCI with two in vivo models. The phytochemical targets PTEN/AKT/mTOR signaling pathway to increase the contractile phenotype of VSMCs and exerts anti-proliferative, anti-migratory as well as pro-apoptotic effects, thereby inhibiting the ISR.

Citation: Zhang L, et al. Euonymine inhibits in-stent restenosis through enhancing contractile phenotype of vascular smooth muscle cells via modulating the PTEN/AKT/mTOR signaling pathway. Euonymine inhibits in-stent restenosis through enhancing contractile phenotype of vascular smooth muscle cells via modulating the PTEN/AKT/mTOR signaling pathway. 2022; 107:154450. doi: 10.1016/j.phymed.2022.154450

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36174454/
