PMID: 36174324
Title: Incidence and clinical features of acute multiple small cerebellar infarction.

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: To investigate the clinical and imaging features and to identify possible etiology of acute multiple small cerebellar infarction (MSCI).
METHODS: We retrospectively enrolled 220 patients with acute cerebellar infarction, divided them into MSCI and large cerebellar infarction (LCI) groups, according to the quantity and size of lesions confirmed by MRI analysis. Clinical and imaging features were compared between the two groups to explore the possible etiology and pathogenesis.
RESULTS: Among 220 patients, 90 patients presented MSCI symptoms. The proportions of extracerebellar lesions (P = 0.001) and bilateral infarction (P = 0.001) in the MSCI group were higher than those in the LCI group. No significant differences were found in terms of age, gender, and common vascular risk factors between the two groups. The proportions of vertigo and headache in the MSCI group were significantly lower than those in the LCI group (P < 0.000 and 0.034, respectively), and limb weakness was significantly higher (P = 0.039) in the MSCI patients. Moreover, the proportions of nystagmus and ataxia in the MSCI group were significantly lower than those in the LCI group (P < 0.043 and 0.003, respectively). The MSCI group had higher proportions of ACA and MCA stenosis, while the proportion of posterior circulation stenosis was similar between the two groups. Infarctions involving the posterior inferior cerebellar (PICA) region and mixed territories were far more frequent than those involving the anterior inferior cerebellar artery (AICA) region and superior cerebellar artery (SCA) territory (P < 0.05). Large-artery atherosclerosis and multiple plus undetermined etiology were the main etiological factors of MSCI.
CONCLUSION: In patients with acute cerebellar infarction, 30% of patients presented with MSCI. MSCI and LCI showed similar vascular risk factors and vascular stenosis in the posterior circulation system. Patients with MSCI should pay more attention to evaluating anterior circulation vessels' anatomy. Large-artery atherosclerosis was the main pathogenesis of acute MSCI. Assessment of cerebral vessels might be critically required in patients with MSCI complicated atrial fibrillation.

Citation: Yu L, et al. Incidence and clinical features of acute multiple small cerebellar infarction. Incidence and clinical features of acute multiple small cerebellar infarction. 2022; 31:106777. doi: 10.1016/j.jstrokecerebrovasdis.2022.106777

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36174324/
