PMID: 36184546
Title: Combination Use of Inoue-Balloon and Self-Expandable Transcatheter Valves in Managing Aortic Stenosis Not Amenable to Balloon-Expandable Valves.

Abstract: Data on the combined use of aortic Inoue-Balloon catheter and self-expandable transcatheter valve for patients undergoing transcatheter aortic valve replacement (TAVR) are lacking. This study aimed to assess the feasibility and safety of this combination, particularly in patients who cannot be safely managed with balloon-expandable valves.Between 2018 and 2021, 140 consecutive patients who had Inoue-Balloon catheters with self-expandable valves were retrospectively examined. Self-expandable transcatheter valves were deployed using the heart team approach in patients with calcification on the left ventricular outflow tract, which could not be safely addressed with the current-generation balloon-expandable valves.The 20- and 22 mm Inoue-Balloon catheters were used with the 26- and 29 mm Evolut valves, respectively. According to the Valve Academic Research Consortium-2 criteria, the procedural success rate was 95.0%, with an early safety at 30 days rate of 6.5%. A total of 27 patients required post-dilation with the same Inoue-Balloon catheter used for pre-dilation after adjustment to appropriate sizes. Post-dilation, with balloon size adjusted to be 1.4 ± 0.9 mm larger than that in pre-dilation, was effective in 19 out of 27 patients (70.3%) for decreasing paravalvular leak after transcatheter valve deployment. The procedural complication rates between patients with and without post-dilation were not different.The combined use of the size-adjustable Inoue-Balloon catheter and self-expandable valve is safe, particularly in patients who cannot be safely managed with balloon-expandable valves. However, further studies are warranted to elucidate concerns regarding the durability of self-expandable transcatheter valves after post-dilation using the Inoue-Balloon catheter.

Citation: Saji M, et al. Combination Use of Inoue-Balloon and Self-Expandable Transcatheter Valves in Managing Aortic Stenosis Not Amenable to Balloon-Expandable Valves. Combination Use of Inoue-Balloon and Self-Expandable Transcatheter Valves in Managing Aortic Stenosis Not Amenable to Balloon-Expandable Valves. 2022; 63:843-851. doi: 10.1536/ihj.22-220

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36184546/
