PMID: 36189331
Title: Evolution of evidence in spinal surgery - past, present and future Scientometric analysis of randomized controlled trials in spinal surgery.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Spine surgery is evolving and in the due course of its evolution, it is useful to have a comprehensive summary of the process to have a greater understanding to refine our future directives. With the multiple domains of research in the spine, it has become difficult for a surgeon to find the potential hotspots in research or identify the emerging research frontiers.
AIM: To analyze RCTs (1990-2019) for potential research domains along with their research networks and identify the hot topics for future research.
METHODS: A comprehensive and systematic analysis of all the RCTs published on spinal surgery from 1990 to 2019 retrieved from the Web of Science Core Collection database. Scientometric and visual analysis of their characteristics, cooperation networks, keywords, and citations were made using CiteSpace software. Journal and article impact index were retrieved from Reference Citation Analysis (RCA) Database.
RESULTS: A total of 696 RCTs were published on spinal surgery from 1990 to 2019; of which, the United States (n = 263) and China (n = 71) made a significant contribution. Thomas Jefferson University (n = 16) was the leading contributor to RCTs on spinal surgery. Weinstein JN was the most cited author in the field followed by Deyo RA. Spine (n = 559) remained the top-cited journal for RCTs on spinal surgery. On literature co-citation analysis, spinal stenosis, anterior cervical discectomy and fusion, degenerative disc disease, and minimally invasive decompression were identified as the hotspots and potential research frontiers.
CONCLUSION: The identified hotspots that extending the frontiers in the management of degenerative disorders of the spine through further research holds the potential for advancement in spinal care.

Citation: Muthu S, et al. Evolution of evidence in spinal surgery - past, present and future Scientometric analysis of randomized controlled trials in spinal surgery. Evolution of evidence in spinal surgery - past, present and future Scientometric analysis of randomized controlled trials in spinal surgery. 2022; 13:853-869. doi: 10.5312/wjo.v13.i9.853

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36189331/
