PMID: 36183366
Title: Established and emerging roles for ultrasound enhancing agents (contrast echocardiography).

Abstract: The ability to opacify the left ventricle and delineate the endocardium after intravenous injection of microbubble ultrasound enhancing agents is of established value to quantify volumes and function in suboptimal unenhanced images, particularly in stress echocardiograms. However, applications other than quantitation of left ventricle structure and function exist for contrast enhanced left ventricular opacification. Contrast agents enable recording of Doppler velocity signals in patients with poor ultrasound transmission, providing estimates of aortic stenosis gradient and pulmonary artery pressures. Contrast echo is of value in detecting apical hypertrophic cardiomyopathy and accompanying apical aneurysms. Most importantly, ultrasound enhancing agents can identify apical and left atrial masses when they cannot be visualized in unenhanced images, and can distinguish thrombi from tumors by visualizing the vascularity inherent in tumors. Contrast agents distinguish trabecular from compacted myocardium in noncompaction syndrome, and hypertrabeculation with other abnormal conditions. A major potential application of ultrasound enhancing agents is myocardial opacification, which can assist in identifying nonviable myocardium. Also, the delayed reappearance of myocardial perfusion after microbubble destruction identifies impaired contrary flow and can diagnose coronary stenosis. Innovative applications of ultrasound contrast agents currently under investigation, include visualizing the vaso vasorum to identify plaques and assess their vulnerability, and theranostic agents to deliver drugs and biologists and to assist in sonothrombolysis. It is anticipated that the role of ultrasound contrast agents will continue to increase in the future.

Citation: Cotter B, et al. Established and emerging roles for ultrasound enhancing agents (contrast echocardiography). Established and emerging roles for ultrasound enhancing agents (contrast echocardiography). 2022; 45:1114-1122. doi: 10.1002/clc.23924

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36183366/
