PMID: 36181953
Title: Pregnancy outcomes in women following the Ross procedure.

Abstract: INTRODUCTION: The Ross procedure, where a pulmonary autograft (neoaorta) replaces the aortic valve, has excellent long-term outcomes in patients with congenital aortic valve disease. However, there are reports of neoaortic dilatation and dissection. An increasing number of women are wishing to become pregnant following the Ross procedure, but little is known about the occurrence and risks of neoaortic dilatation and complications in pregnancy. We investigated neoaorta function and outcomes in pregnancy following the Ross procedure.
METHODS: This retrospective study investigated women post-Ross procedure at a tertiary ACHD unit between 1997 and 2021. Imaging evaluated neoaortic root dimensions and regurgitation pre-, and post- pregnancy, compared with matched non-pregnant controls. Primary endpoints were change in neoaortic dimensions, degree of regurgitation and adverse maternal outcomes.
RESULTS: Nineteen pregnancies in 12 women were included. The mean change in neoaortic root diameter post-pregnancy was 1.8 mm (SD 3.4) (p = 0.017). There was no significant change in neoaortic dimensions in matched controls during follow-up. There were no cases of dissection, arrhythmia, acute coronary syndrome, or maternal mortality. Three deliveries were pre-term, including one emergency Caesarean section due to maternal cardiac decompensation, requiring aortic root replacement post-partum but there were no neonatal deaths.
CONCLUSIONS: Pregnancy following the Ross procedure is associated with neoaortic dilatation, and pregnancy is generally well tolerated. Although adverse maternal outcomes are uncommon, there are still rare cases of cardiac complications in and around the time of pregnancy. These findings emphasise the need for accessible pre-pregnancy counselling, risk stratification and careful surveillance through pregnancy by specialist cardio-obstetric multi-disciplinary teams.

Citation: Thompson SE, et al. Pregnancy outcomes in women following the Ross procedure. Pregnancy outcomes in women following the Ross procedure. 2023; 371:135-139. doi: 10.1016/j.ijcard.2022.09.069

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36181953/
