PMID: 36186946
Title: Endoscopic therapy using a self-expandable metallic stent with an anti-migration system for postorthotopic liver transplantation anastomotic biliary stricture.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Endoscopic therapy using multiple plastic stents (MPSs) is the standard therapy for postorthotopic liver transplantation (p-OLT) anastomotic biliary stricture (ABS). However, this approach demands repeated procedures. Recent studies using fully covered self-expandable metallic stents (FCSEMS) have shown encouraging results, but migration occurs in 10% to 40% of cases. The objective of this retrospective study was to evaluate the efficacy of endoscopic treatment using FCSEMS with an anti-migration system (Am-FCSEMS) in patients with p-OLT ABS.
AIM: To evaluate the efficacy of endoscopic treatment using an Am-FCSEMS in patients with p-OLT ABS.
METHODS: This study was conducted in a private tertiary care centre in São Paulo, Brazil and was approved by our institution's Human Research Committee. From April 2018 to October 2020, regardless of previous endoscopic treatment (MPS or FCSEMS), 17 patients with p-OLT ABS and indications for endoscopic therapy were included in this study. The exclusion criteria were pregnancy, nonanastomotic biliary or hilar stricture, hepatic artery stenosis/thrombosis, isolated biliary fistulae, a distance shorter than 2 cm from the stricture to the hepatic hilum, and patient refusal. The primary endpoint was the efficacy of p-OLT ABS endoscopic treatment using an Am-FCSEMS that remained in place for a 12-mo period. Biliary sphincterotomy was performed in patients with native papilla, and an Am-FCSEMS (10 mm in final diameter and 60 or 80 mm in length) was placed (HanarostentTM MI Tech, Co). Balloon stricture dilation was performed only if necessary to introduce the stent.
RESULTS: Three patients were excluded due to loss to follow-up before stent removal. Among the 14 patients included and followed, 7 were women, and the average age was 56 years (range: 28-76). The average period of Am-FCSEMS placement was 362 ± 109 d. Technical success occurred in all 14 patients (100%). There were no cases of distal stent migration. Complete resolution of the stricture occurred in 13/14 patients (92.85%). Adverse events occurred in 3/14 patients (21.42%): 2 patients with mild acute pancreatitis (14.28%) and 1 patient (7.14%) with stent dysfunction (occlusion by biliary sludge and stones, which was treated endoscopically without the need for stent removal). No deaths occurred related to therapy. All stents were removed using foreign body forceps or snares without difficulty. After Am-FCSEMS removal, all 13 patients who had ABS resolution were followed-up for an average of 411 ± 172 d, and there was no stricture recurrence or need for further endoscopic therapy.
CONCLUSION: In this retrospective study, endoscopy therapy using an Am-FCSEMS for p-OLT ABS was safe and effective, with a high stricture resolution rate that was probably due to the absence of stent migration.

Citation: Pinheiro LW, et al. Endoscopic therapy using a self-expandable metallic stent with an anti-migration system for postorthotopic liver transplantation anastomotic biliary stricture. Endoscopic therapy using a self-expandable metallic stent with an anti-migration system for postorthotopic liver transplantation anastomotic biliary stricture. 2022; 14:547-554. doi: 10.4253/wjge.v14.i9.547

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36186946/
