PMID: 36191743
Title: High-density activation map of atrial tachycardia within left atrial appendage.

Abstract: Identification of the critical isthmus of the reentrant tachycardia is essential to maximize the effect of catheter ablation (CA) and to minimize the myocardial injury of CA. An 81-year-old woman presented recurrent palpitations after CA of atrial fibrillation (AF) and atrial tachycardia (AT). She had moderate aortic valve stenosis and coronary artery disease. She had received a pulmonary vein isolation, left atrial (LA) posterior wall isolation, and LA anterior linear ablation for atrial fibrillation 1 year prior. At the start of the procedure, she was in sinus rhythm. Atrial burst pacing induced an AT (230msec). High-density mapping revealed a figure-of-eight activation pattern within the LA appendage (LAA), accounting for 99% of the tachycardia cycle length. The critical isthmus was identified at the mid LAA and the local electrogram of the critical isthmus was not fractionated. A single radiofrequency application at the critical isthmus of the AT, terminated the AT. She was free from any ATs for 28 months. Radiofrequency ablation of the localized reentrant AT was usually performed targeting long fractionated electrograms. In our case, the local electrogram at the critical isthmus was not fragmented compared with the LAA distal part. Long fractionated electrograms were recorded at a more distal part of the LAA than the common isthmus and we could avoid the potential risk of a perforation. A recent developed 3-dimensional electro-anatomical mapping system can identify the critical isthmus and allow us to select a new therapeutic strategy for a critical isthmus ablation of an AT within the LAA.

Citation: Matsunaga-Lee Y, et al. High-density activation map of atrial tachycardia within left atrial appendage. High-density activation map of atrial tachycardia within left atrial appendage. 2023; 23:27-30. doi: 10.1016/j.ipej.2022.09.004

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36191743/
