PMID: 36196091
Title: Risk Factors for Urologic Complications After Kidney Transplantation and Impact in Graft Survival.

Abstract: BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: Kidney transplantation (KT) is the best therapy for chronic kidney disease (CKD). Major urologic complications (MUCs) are the second etiology associated to morbidity and graft loss following KT, after rejection episodes. The objective of this study was to estimate the incidence, risk factors and impact on graft survival associated to urological complications in KT patients.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: A retrospective cohort based on electronic patient files of kidney transplant recipients from Colombiana de Trasplantes was created for the period August 2008 to September 2019. Initiation of follow-up was defined as the date of transplantation up to 3 years post-transplantation. Incidence of ureteral stenosis, ureteral obstruction, and ureteral leak was measured. A logistic regression multivariate model was adjusted to determine the associated factors to MUCs (yes/no). Patient and graft survival time were analyzed using a Kaplan-Meier method.
RESULTS: A total of 1584 KT patients were included in the cohort. MUCs were present in 195 (12.6%) KT patients. We found that dialysis duration (OR: 1.004; p = 0.02) remained significant for the incidence of MUCs in KT patients of deceased donors. Probability of graft and patient survival at 3 years of follow-up was 90.5% and 85.5%, respectively. No significant difference was found on graft and patient survival in KT patients with or without MUCs.
CONCLUSION: MUCs are frequent complications for KT. We did not observe significant differences in graft or patient survival according to the presence of MUCs. The identification of MUCs and risk factors may guide transplant teams for future surgical and clinical decisions.

Citation: Nino-Torres L, et al. Risk Factors for Urologic Complications After Kidney Transplantation and Impact in Graft Survival. Risk Factors for Urologic Complications After Kidney Transplantation and Impact in Graft Survival. 2022; 14:327-337. doi: 10.2147/RRU.S371851

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36196091/
