PMID: 36190247
Title: C-arm-Free Simultaneous OLIF51 and Percutaneous Pedicle Screw Fixation in a Single Lateral Position.

Abstract: Oblique lumbar interbody fusion (OLIF) is an established technique for the indirect decompression of lumbar canal stenosis. However, OLIF at the L5-S1 level (OLIF51) is technically difficult because of the anatomical structures. We present a novel simultaneous technique of OLIF51 with percutaneous pedicle screw fixation without fluoroscopy. The patient is placed in a right lateral decubitus position. A percutaneous reference pin is inserted into the right sacroiliac joint. An O-arm scan is performed, and 3D reconstructed images are transmitted to the spinal navigation system. A 4 cm oblique skin incision is made under navigation guidance along the pelvis. The internal/external and transverse abdominal muscles are divided along the muscle fibers, protecting the iliohypogastric and ilioinguinal nerves. Using a retroperitoneal approach, the left common iliac vessels are identified. Special muscle retractors with illumination are used to expose the L5-S1 intervertebral disc. After disc preparation with navigated instruments, the disc space is distracted with navigated trials. Autogenous bone and demineralized bone material are then inserted into the cage hole. The OLIF51 cage is inserted into the disc space with the help of a mallet. Simultaneously, percutaneous pedicle screws are inserted by another surgeon without changing the lateral decubitus position of the patient. In conclusion, C-arm-free OLIF51 and simultaneous percutaneous pedicle screw fixation are performed in a lateral position under navigation guidance. This novel technique reduces surgical time and radiation hazards.

Citation: Tanaka M, et al. C-arm-Free Simultaneous OLIF51 and Percutaneous Pedicle Screw Fixation in a Single Lateral Position. C-arm-Free Simultaneous OLIF51 and Percutaneous Pedicle Screw Fixation in a Single Lateral Position. 2022; (unknown volume):(unknown pages). doi: 10.3791/63572

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36190247/
