PMID: 36196076
Title: Correlations between paraspinal extensor muscle endurance and clinical outcomes in preoperative LSS patients and clinical value of an endurance classification.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Few study has investigated how paraspinal muscle endurance deteriorates in lumbar spinal stenosis (LSS) patients. In addition, little information is available on the relationship between clinical outcomes and the endurance of paraspinal muscles.
OBJECTIVE: To explore the correlation between paraspinal extensor muscle endurance, quality of life (QOL) and sagittal spinopelvic alignment. Besides, we attempted to propose a paraspinal extensor muscle endurance test (PEMET) classification for identifying the severity of clinical symptoms and sagittal imbalance in LSS patients.
METHODS: 171 hospitalized LSS patients and 100 healthy controls from the community were prospectively enrolled in this study. The paraspinal extensor endurance test was performed at baseline according to Ito test. The LSS patients were stratified into three groups based on the performance time of endurance test: grade I (<10s); grade II (10-60s); and grade III (>60s). Clinical measures of QOL included the visual analog scale scores (VAS) for back pain and leg pain and the Oswestry Disability Index (ODI). Sagittal alignment was analysed by standing posteroanterior and lateral whole spine X-ray in LSS patients.
RESULTS: The LSS group had a significantly shorter performance time of the endurance test than the control group. The paraspinal muscle endurance significantly correlated with VAS-back, VAS-leg, ODI, pelvic tilt, lumbar lordosis and sagittal vertical axis (SVA; all p &lt; 0.05). In binary logistic regression, the performance time of the endurance test was an independent factor of both poor functional status (ODI &gt;40; p = 0.005, OR = 0.985) and global sagittal imbalance (SVA &gt;50 mm; p = 0.019, OR = 0.985). Based on PEMET classification, moving from the grade III group to the grade I group, there was progressive worsening in VAS-back and ODI (all adjusted p &lt; 0.05). Moreover, the grade I group had significantly greater VAS- leg, less LL and greater SVA than the other two groups (all adjusted p &lt; 0.05).
CONCLUSION: Paraspinal muscle endurance was associated with QOL and sagittal spinopelvic alignment in LSS patients. A PEMET classification system has been constructed and has shown a correlation with QOL and sagittal imbalance.
TRANSLATIONAL POTENTIAL STATEMENT: The PEMET classification system proposed in this study could be available for identifying the severity of clinical symptoms and sagittal imbalance during preoperative evaluation in LSS patients.

Citation: Han G, et al. Correlations between paraspinal extensor muscle endurance and clinical outcomes in preoperative LSS patients and clinical value of an endurance classification. Correlations between paraspinal extensor muscle endurance and clinical outcomes in preoperative LSS patients and clinical value of an endurance classification. 2022; 35:81-86. doi: 10.1016/j.jot.2022.08.005

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36196076/
