PMID: 36190942
Title: A descriptive study of venous pressures and gradients while awake and both pre- and post-stent under anesthesia in patients with idiopathic intracranial hypertension.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: This study aims to explore factors that affect venous sinus pressures and associated gradients while awake and under general anesthesia (GA) both before and after venous sinus stenting (VSS) in patients with idiopathic intracranial hypertension (IIH).
METHODS: A retrospective analysis was performed examining pressures and gradients in patients with IIH having undergone awake venography followed by VSS under GA.
RESULTS: 174 patients were included. Compared with awake, GA superior sagittal sinus (SSS) pressures were 2.6 mmHg lower (p=0.01) resulting in a total cranial gradient reduction of 2.5 mmHg (p=0.002). The transverse-sigmoid gradient, the most commonly stented segment, did not differ under the two conditions (p=0.30). Regression analyses demonstrated that body mass index, gender, blood pressure, and end-tidal carbon dioxide content significantly affected venous pressures (all p<0.05). After stenting, mean total cranial gradients decreased by 13.2 mmHg while skull base gradients increased by 0.8 mmHg. Stenting resulted in an 84% mean reduction in the target gradient and a mean decrease in SSS pressures by 78% of the target gradient. When cardiopulmonary and anesthetic factors were optimized, GA had a limited effect on the target gradient in most patients (p=0.88).
CONCLUSIONS: This study is the largest series to date to report on cerebral venous pressure measurements and gradients recorded while awake and under GA both before and after VSS for IIH. In a well-controlled cardiorespiratory and anesthetic setting, GA venography may provide information that is not substantially inequivalent to that obtained while awake.

Citation: Fargen KM, et al. A descriptive study of venous pressures and gradients while awake and both pre- and post-stent under anesthesia in patients with idiopathic intracranial hypertension. A descriptive study of venous pressures and gradients while awake and both pre- and post-stent under anesthesia in patients with idiopathic intracranial hypertension. 2023; 15:1027-1033. doi: 10.1136/jnis-2022-019337

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36190942/
