PMID: 36209767
Title: Closure of large mucosal defects for prevention of strictures after duodenal endoscopic submucosal dissection (with video).

Abstract: BACKGROUND AND AIMS: Although lesions occupying a large circumference are associated with the risk of post-endoscopic submucosal dissection (ESD) strictures, the corresponding data for duodenal lesions are unknown. We aimed to analyze the incidence of post-ESD strictures after wide-field duodenal ESD.
METHODS: In this retrospective study of duodenal lesions treated with ESD between July 2010 and August 2021, we included lesions that resulted in mucosal defects occupying more than half of the circumference and excluded lesions located in bulbs and involving Vater's papilla. We analyzed the incidence rates of stricture and luminal narrowing, in addition to bleeding and perforation as the outcomes in this study. Stricture was defined as the inability of the endoscope to pass through the lumen. A single endoscopist reviewed all endoscopic images and judged the degree of luminal narrowing.
RESULTS: Eighty lesions were included, of which 2 involved mucosal defects occupying more than 90% of the circumference. The wound was closed, at least partially, in 90% in all lesions and in 86% of lesions with a mucosal defect occupying more than 75% of the circumference. None of the lesions caused delayed perforation and stricture, whereas 2 lesions caused delayed bleeding. Only 6 lesions caused luminal narrowing. When examined by the degree of closure, the rate of luminal narrowing increased with complete closure, incomplete closure, and nonclosure (4.9%, 9.1%, and 25.0%, respectively).
CONCLUSIONS: Suturing may prevent post-ESD bleeding and perforation as well as stricture formation in cases of duodenal tumors, with mucosal defects occupying a large circumference.

Citation: Kubosawa Y, et al. Closure of large mucosal defects for prevention of strictures after duodenal endoscopic submucosal dissection (with video). Closure of large mucosal defects for prevention of strictures after duodenal endoscopic submucosal dissection (with video). 2023; 97:484-492. doi: 10.1016/j.gie.2022.09.026

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36209767/
