PMID: 36217554
Title: Analysis between high risk of myocardial infarction with non-obstructive coronary artery disease in single center and occurrence of major adverse cardiovascular events.

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: To investigate and compare the general information, medication, and the occurrence time of major adverse cardiovascular events (MACE) between patients with myocardial infarction with non-obstructive coronary artery myocardial infarction (MINOCA) and those with obstructive coronary artery disease (MICAD).
METHODS: A total of 325 acute myocardial infarction (AMI) patients were included (MINOCA: n = 31; MICAD: n = 294). The general information and medication of patients were recorded, including age, gender, prevalence of type 2 diabetes, left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF), proportion of mitral regurgitation, cTn level, triglyceride level, electrocardiogram (ECG) findings, and drugs used (statins, drugs improving ventricular remodeling, antiplatelet drugs). The above indexes were compared, and statistical analysis was performed at different time points of MACE.
RESULTS: MACE occurred significantly more in the MICAD group than in the MINOCA group (38.8% vs. 12.9%; p = .004) after 1 month to 1.5 years of treatment. The earlier the period of MACE occurred in patients with high coronary artery stenosis, it was an independent risk factor for the occurrence of MACE from 1 month to 1 year after surgery (p = .002), while the later the occurrence of MACE in patients with LVEF ≥55% (p = .029). It was not related to gender, cTn, and electrocardiography (ECG) indexes.
CONCLUSION: A correlation can be established between the risk factors of MINOCA and the occurrence time of MACE. In addition, MICAD is more commonly seen in male patients and patients with a higher cTn level and lower LVEF.

Citation: Kong M, et al. Analysis between high risk of myocardial infarction with non-obstructive coronary artery disease in single center and occurrence of major adverse cardiovascular events. Analysis between high risk of myocardial infarction with non-obstructive coronary artery disease in single center and occurrence of major adverse cardiovascular events. 2022; 27:e13007. doi: 10.1111/anec.13007

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36217554/
