PMID: 36212028
Title: Right Ventricular and Pulmonary Computed Tomography Assessments in Paradoxical Low-Flow Low-Gradient Aortic Stenosis Undergoing Transcatheter Aortic Valve Replacement.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Patients with paradoxical low-flow low-gradient aortic stenosis (pLFLG-AS) have high mortality and high degree of TAVR futility. Computed tomography (CT) enables accurate simultaneous right ventricular (RV) and parenchymal lung disease evaluation which may provide useful objective markers of AS severity, concomitant pulmonary comorbidities, and transcatheter aortic valve replacement (TAVR) improvement. However, the prevalence of RV dysfunction and its association with pulmonary disease in pLFLG-AS is unknown. The study objective was to test the hypothesis that pLFLG-AS patients undergoing TAVR have decreased RV function without significant parenchymal lung disease.
METHODS: Between August 2016 and March 2020, 194 consecutive AS patients completed high-resolution computed tomography (CT) imaging for TAVR evaluation. Subjects were stratified based on echocardiographic criteria as the study group, pLFLG (n=27), and two consecutive control groups: classic severe, normal-flow, high-gradient (n=27) and normal-flow, low-gradient (NFLG) (n=27) AS. Blinded biventricular function and lung parenchymal disease assessments were obtained by high-resolution CT imaging.
RESULTS: Patient demographics were similar between groups. pLFLG-AS had lower RV ejection fraction (49±10%) compared to both classic severe (58±7%, p<0.001) and NFLG AS (55±65%, p=0.02). There were no significant differences on lung emphysema (p=0.19), air fraction (p=0.58), and pulmonary disease presence (p=0.94) and severity (p=0.67) between groups.
CONCLUSION: pLFLG-AS patients have lower RV ejection fraction, than classic severe and normal-flow low-gradient AS patients in the absence of significant parenchymal lung disease on CT imaging. These findings support the direct importance of RV function in the pathophysiology of aortic valve disease.

Citation: Rigolli M, et al. Right Ventricular and Pulmonary Computed Tomography Assessments in Paradoxical Low-Flow Low-Gradient Aortic Stenosis Undergoing Transcatheter Aortic Valve Replacement. Right Ventricular and Pulmonary Computed Tomography Assessments in Paradoxical Low-Flow Low-Gradient Aortic Stenosis Undergoing Transcatheter Aortic Valve Replacement. 2022; 6:(unknown pages). doi: 10.1016/j.shj.2022.100014

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36212028/
