PMID: 36219954
Title: Carvedilol Reduces the Neuronal Apoptosis after Ischemic Stroke by Modulating Activator of Transcription 3 Expression in vitro.

Abstract: Cerebral ischemia is divided into local cerebral ischemia and diffuse cerebral ischemia. The etiology of localized cerebral ischemia includes middle cerebral artery embolism; stenosis, occlusion, or thrombosis of extracranial internal carotid artery or vertebral artery; and cerebral artery spasm. The causes of diffuse cerebral ischemia include cardiac arrest, hypotension, anemia, and hypoglycemia. However, the underlying mechanism is still unclear. In this study, we demonstrated that activator of transcription 3 (ATF3) is a hubgene in IS by bioinformatics analysis. The expression of ATF3 was increased in PC12 cells with oxygen-glucose deprivation/reoxygenation (OGD/R) treatment. ATF3 deficiency inhibited cell viability and induced cell apoptosis, whereas ATF3 overexpression showed the opposite role in cell viability and cell apoptosis. Moreover, Carvedilol as a compound targeting ATF3 also facilitated cell viability and reduced cell apoptosis. ATF3 deficiency retarded the increase in cell viability and inhibition of cell apoptosis in OGD/R-PC12 cells with Carvedilol treatment. Additionally, the decreased Bax and cleaved caspase-3 were released in OGD/R-PC12 cells with Carvedilol and siATF3 treatment, while Bcl-2 expression was inhibited in OGD/R-PC12 cells with Carvedilol and siATF3 treatment. In conclusion, Carvedilol may be a key compound targeting ATF3 in OGD/R-PC12 cells. Graphical Abstract: Carvedilol positively regulated cell viability and negatively regulated cell apoptosis in OGD/R-PC12 cells by inhibition of ATF3.

Citation: Zheng Z, et al. Carvedilol Reduces the Neuronal Apoptosis after Ischemic Stroke by Modulating Activator of Transcription 3 Expression in vitro. Carvedilol Reduces the Neuronal Apoptosis after Ischemic Stroke by Modulating Activator of Transcription 3 Expression in vitro. 2023; 45:94-104. doi: 10.1159/000527484

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36219954/
