PMID: 36224678
Title: [Clinical Analysis of ABO-Incompatible Living-Donor Liver Transplantation in Children].

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the safety and clinical efficacy of ABO-incompatible living-donor liver transplantation (LDLT) in children.
METHODS: The clinical data of 62 children who underwent for the first time living donor liver transplantation in our hospital from April 2019 to July 2020 were retrospectively analyzed. According to the blood type matching of donor and recipient, the patients were divided into 3 groups, ABO-identical (ABO-Id, n=33), ABO-compatible (ABO-C, n=10) and ABO-incompatible (ABO-In, n=19), the median age of recipients in the three groups being 5 months. In the ABO-In group, 4 recipients whose condition was combined with liver failure and 2 recipients who had blood group antibody titers≥1∶32 received preoperative plasma exchange. All ABO-incompatible recipients had preoperative blood group antibody titers&lt;1∶32. All recipients in the three groups underwent piggyback liver transplantation and received immunosuppressive and anticoagulation therapy. Postoperative follow-up was 5 to 20 months, the median being 12 months, measured until December 31, 2020 or until the date of death. Baseline clinical data, postoperative survival, and postoperative complications of recipients in the three groups were analyzed.
RESULTS: There were no significant differences in age, gender, underlying disease, operation history, Child Pugh score, donor age, graft to recipient weight ratio (GR/WR), cold ischemia time, warm ischemia time, duration of surgery, intraoperative blood loss and the use of immunosuppressants among the recipients in the three groups (all P&gt;0.05). There was one death in the perioperative period and two deaths in the postoperative period in the ABO-Id group. There was one death in the postoperative period in the ABO-C group. There was one death in the perioperative period and one death in the postoperative period in the ABO-In group. There was no significant difference in the overall cumulative survival rate among the three groups ( P&gt;0.05). There were no significant differences in the incidence of postoperative infection, acute rejection, biliary anastomotic stenosis and vascular complications among the three groups ( P&gt;0.05).
CONCLUSION: ABO-In LDLT is an effective and safe treatment option that can effectively expand the pool of live donors for liver transplantation and save the life of children with end-stage liver disease.

Citation: Han HL, et al. [Clinical Analysis of ABO-Incompatible Living-Donor Liver Transplantation in Children]. [Clinical Analysis of ABO-Incompatible Living-Donor Liver Transplantation in Children]. 2022; 53:777-781. doi: 10.12182/20220960201

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36224678/
