PMID: 36221374
Title: Learning curve for microscopic unilateral laminectomy for bilateral decompression surgery using the cumulative summation test for learning curve.

Abstract: A retrospective observational study The purpose of this study was to characterize the learning curve for a single level unilateral laminectomy and bilateral decompression in lumbar spinal stenosis using a learning curve cumulative summation test. Unilateral laminectomy and bilateral decompression for lumbar spinal stenosis proposes a potential benefit with minimizing surgery-related instability compared to traditional bilateral laminectomy, by preserving posterior stabilizing structures and contralateral facet joint and neural arch. Due to a narrow surgical corridor, it is considered to exhibit a steep learning curve as other types of minimally invasive procedures. However, there are few reports available regarding learning curve of unilateral laminectomy and bilateral decompression. The learning curve of a single surgeon performing single level unilateral laminectomy and bilateral decompression was assessed using learning curve cumulative summation test analysis. The surgeon had minimal experience in open decompressive laminectomy but no previous experience in unilateral laminectomy and bilateral decompression. Procedure success was defined as an operation time less than 75 minutes. Surgery related complications were recorded. Total 194 consecutive patients, who underwent primary single level unilateral laminectomy and bilateral decompression by a single spine surgeon, were included. The mean operative time for unilateral laminectomy and bilateral decompression was 64.6 ± 23.6 minutes. The mean operative time in the early learning period (≤29th case) was 80.6 ± 20.9 minutes, and that in the late learning period (after 29th case) was 61.8 ± 22.7 minutes, respectively. The overall complication rate was 13.9%. Majority of complications occurred in the early learning period. The learning curve cumulative summation test signaled competency for unilateral laminectomy and bilateral decompression at the 29th operation, indicating that the surgeon reached the competent level. In addition, based on the cumulative summation test, the surgeon seemed to maintain his competency for the procedure. This study showed that surgical experience reduced the operation time and surgery related complications. For inexperienced surgeon to achieve an acceptable outcome in unilateral laminectomy and bilateral decompression, minimum 30 cases of unilateral laminectomy and bilateral decompression are required to reach competent level of surgery.

Citation: Park J, et al. Learning curve for microscopic unilateral laminectomy for bilateral decompression surgery using the cumulative summation test for learning curve. Learning curve for microscopic unilateral laminectomy for bilateral decompression surgery using the cumulative summation test for learning curve. 2022; 101:e31069. doi: 10.1097/MD.0000000000031069

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36221374/
