PMID: 36226463
Title: Inflammatory serum factors from aortic valve stenosis patients modulate sex differences in valvular myofibroblast activation and osteoblast-like differentiation.

Abstract: Aortic valve stenosis (AVS) is a sexually dimorphic cardiovascular disease that is driven by fibrosis and calcification of the aortic valve leaflets. Circulating inflammatory factors present in serum from AVS patients contribute to sex differences in valve fibro-calcification by driving the activation of valvular interstitial cells (VICs) to myofibroblasts and/or osteoblast-like cells. However, the molecular mechanisms by which inflammatory factors contribute to sex-specific valve fibro-calcification remain largely unknown. In this study, we identified inflammatory factors present in serum samples from AVS patients that regulate sex-specific myofibroblast activation and osteoblast-like differentiation. After correlating serum proteomic datasets with clinical and in vitro myofibroblast datasets, we identified annexin A2 and cystatin C as candidate inflammatory factors that correlate with both AVS patient severity and myofibroblast activation measurements in vitro. Validation experiments utilizing hydrogel biomaterials as cell culture platforms that mimic the valve extracellular matrix confirmed that annexin A2 and cystatin C promote sex-specific VIC activation to myofibroblasts via p38 MAPK signaling. Additionally, annexin A2 and cystatin C increase osteoblast-like differentiation primarily in male VICs. Our results implicate serum inflammatory factors as potential AVS biomarkers that also contribute to sexually dimorphic AVS progression by driving VIC myofibroblast activation and/or osteoblast-like differentiation. Collectively, the results herein further our overall understanding as to how biological sex may impact inflammation-driven AVS and may lead to the development of sex-specific drug treatment strategies.

Citation: Vogt BJ, et al. Inflammatory serum factors from aortic valve stenosis patients modulate sex differences in valvular myofibroblast activation and osteoblast-like differentiation. Inflammatory serum factors from aortic valve stenosis patients modulate sex differences in valvular myofibroblast activation and osteoblast-like differentiation. 2022; 10:6341-6353. doi: 10.1039/d2bm00844k

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36226463/
