PMID: 36225342
Title: Coronary morphological features in women with non-ST-segment elevation MINOCA and MI-CAD as assessed by optical coherence tomography.

Abstract: AIMS: We aimed to use optical coherence tomography (OCT) to identify differences in atherosclerotic culprit lesion morphology in women with myocardial infarction (MI) with non-obstructive coronary arteries (MINOCA) compared with MI with obstructive coronary artery disease (MI-CAD).
METHODS AND RESULTS: Women with an OCT-determined atherosclerotic aetiology of non-ST segment elevation (NSTE)-MINOCA (angiographic diameter stenosis <50%) who were enrolled in the multicentre Women's Heart Attack Research Program (HARP) study were compared with a consecutive series of women with NSTE-MI-CAD who underwent OCT prior to coronary intervention at a single institution. Atherosclerotic pathologies identified by OCT included plaque rupture, plaque erosion, intraplaque haemorrhage (IPH, a region of low signal intensity with minimum attenuation adjacent to a lipidic plaque without fibrous cap disruption), layered plaque (superficial layer with clear demarcation from the underlying plaque indicating early thrombus healing), or eruptive calcified nodule.We analysed 58 women with NSTE-MINOCA and 52 women with NSTE-MI-CAD. Optical coherence tomography features of underlying vulnerable plaque (thin-cap fibroatheroma) were less common in MINOCA (3 vs. 35%) than in MI-CAD. Intraplaque haemorrhage (47 vs. 2%) and layered plaque (31 vs. 12%) were more common in MINOCA than MI-CAD, whereas plaque rupture (14 vs. 67%), plaque erosion (8 vs. 14%), and calcified nodule (0 vs. 6%) were less common in MINOCA. The angle of ruptured cavity was smaller and thrombus burden was lower in MINOCA.
CONCLUSION: The prevalence of atherothrombotic culprit lesion subtype varied substantially between MINOCA and MI-CAD. A majority of culprit lesions in MINOCA had the appearance of IPH or layered plaque.
CLINICAL TRIAL REGISTRATION INFORMATION: Clinical Trial Name: Heart Attack Research Program- Imaging Study (HARP); ClinicalTrial.gov Identifier: NCT02905357; URL: https://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT02905357.

Citation: Usui E, et al. Coronary morphological features in women with non-ST-segment elevation MINOCA and MI-CAD as assessed by optical coherence tomography. Coronary morphological features in women with non-ST-segment elevation MINOCA and MI-CAD as assessed by optical coherence tomography. 2022; 2:oeac058. doi: 10.1093/ehjopen/oeac058

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36225342/
