PMID: 36238469
Title: Application of Model-Building Based on Arterial Ultrasound Imaging Evaluation to Predict CHD Risk.

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: Atherosclerotic is a chronic systemic disease that may occur in multiple vascular beds, including the carotid arteries, renal arteries, lower limb arteries, and cerebral vessels. Coronary atherosclerosis shares similar risk factors, pathogenesis, and pathophysiological basis with the atherosclerotic lesions of arteries at these sites. Arterial ultrasound assessment data were used to explore the correlation of atherosclerotic disease with CHD lesions and their severity and the number of lesion branches, as well as to evaluate its value in predicting CHD risk, in combination with traditional risk factors.
METHODS: A total of 363 inpatients with suspected CHD in the Department of Cardiology of the First Hospital of Harbin Medical University from November 2017 to June 2021 were selected. Patient clinical data, blood biochemical examination results, and ultrasound examination of neck vessels, abdominal arteries, and limb arteries were collected to obtain atherosclerosis assessment data. We then compared the differences between the CHD group and the control group, analyzed their correlation with CHD lesions and severity and the number of lesion branches, and evaluated the correlation with the coronary Gensini score. After adjustment for traditional risk factors, logistic regression was applied to analyze the relationship between arterial ultrasound assessment data and the risk of CHD. In addition, ROC plots were drawn to evaluate the risk of arterial ultrasound assessment data, combined with traditional risk factors, to predict CHD.
RESULTS: With regard to abnormal blood biochemical index values, differences in lipids, HDL-C, FIB, CK-MB, hs-cTnI, BNP, and GGT were found between the CHD group and the control group. Carotid plaque count, abdominal aortic flow velocity, inferior mesenteric artery flow velocity, classification of the number of stenotic branches of abdominal aortic branch arteries, lower-extremity-artery plaque count, degree of lower-extremity-artery stenosis, and lower-extremity-artery AS were risk factors for arterial ultrasound assessment data of CHD. Carotid plaque count, carotid artery AS, inferior mesenteric artery flow velocity, abdominal aortic flow velocity, abdominal aortic plaque count, abdominal aortic branch artery stenosis branch classification, lower-extremity-artery plaque count, lower-extremity-artery stenosis branch classification, degree of lower-extremity-artery stenosis, and lower-extremity-artery AS, combined with traditional risk factors, were mostly more effective than traditional risk factor models in predicting CHD, its severity, and the number of branch lesions; moreover, the predictive value was higher. Specifically, carotid plaque count, carotid AS, lower-extremity-artery AS, the degree of stenosis of lower-extremity arteries, and abdominal aortic branch artery stenosis branch classification can be used as predictor variables for CHD risk. Among these variables, the carotid plaque count can be used as an independent predictor of CHD.
CONCLUSION: The incidence of arterial intima-media thickening (IMT), plaques, and stenosis can provide a reference for understanding the pattern of systemic atherogenesis and the distribution of atherosclerosis.

Citation: Chen X, et al. Application of Model-Building Based on Arterial Ultrasound Imaging Evaluation to Predict CHD Risk. Application of Model-Building Based on Arterial Ultrasound Imaging Evaluation to Predict CHD Risk. 2022; 2022:4615802. doi: 10.1155/2022/4615802

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36238469/
