PMID: 36244265
Title: Melittin regulates iron homeostasis and mediates macrophage polarization in rats with lumbar spinal stenosis.

Abstract: Lumbar spinal stenosis (LSS) is defined as spinal canal narrowing, resulting in the compression of the nerves traversing the lower back into the leg. Inflammation is the most common cause of LSS. Elevated iron stores are often associated with chronic inflammation resulting in nerve damage-induced pain. Macrophage polarization to either the M1 (inflammatory) or M2 (anti-inflammatory) type is essential for regulating host defenses and promoting tissue repair. However, the precise role of macrophage polarization in iron release or retention in LSS pathophysiology remains elusive. Melittin, a component of bee venom, modulates iron metabolism-related macrophage polarization and is beneficial in LSS. We treated primary peritoneal macrophages with melittin and assessed macrophage polarization by immunofluorescence staining. Melittin (100 and 250 µg/kg) effects on iron deposition-induced macrophage polarization were also evaluated using immunochemistry, real-time PCR, and flow cytometry in an LSS rat model. Locomotor function was assessed using the Basso-Beattie-Bresnahan (BBB) locomotor rating scale, ladder scoring, and von Frey test for up to 3 weeks. Melittin induced M2 polarization of iron-insulted primary macrophages in vitro and increased the proportion of M2 macrophages in the damaged spinal cord in vivo. Moreover, melittin attenuated iron overload-induced M1 polarization by regulating iron metabolism-related genes in rats with LSS. In conclusion, melittin improves locomotor recovery and stimulates axonal growth following LSS. Additionally, it promotes functional recovery in LSS rat models by regulating macrophage iron metabolism, thereby activating M2 macrophages, suggesting its potential application in LSS treatment.

Citation: Kim H, et al. Melittin regulates iron homeostasis and mediates macrophage polarization in rats with lumbar spinal stenosis. Melittin regulates iron homeostasis and mediates macrophage polarization in rats with lumbar spinal stenosis. 2022; 156:113776. doi: 10.1016/j.biopha.2022.113776

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36244265/
