PMID: 36240152
Title: In vivo evaluation of histopathologic findings of vascular damage after mechanical thrombectomy with the Tromba device in a canine model of cerebral infarction.

Abstract: A novel stent retriever device for in vivo mechanical thrombectomy for acute cerebral infarction has been developed. In this study, we compared the thrombus removal capacity, potential complications, and extent of vessel wall damage of this novel device with those of the Solitaire FR device by performing a histopathologic analysis using an autopsied canine model. Through this experimental evaluation, we aimed to assess the safety and efficacy of the newly developed thrombus removal device for cerebral infarction. Blood clots (autologous thrombus) were injected into 12 canines. Mechanical thrombectomy was performed in six canines using the newly developed Tromba thrombectomy device (experimental group) and in the other six canines using the Solitaire FR thrombectomy device (control group). Angiographic and histopathologic evaluations were performed 1 month after the blood vessels underwent mechanical thrombectomy. In the experimental group, the reperfusion patency was classified as "no narrowing" in five cases and "moderate narrowing (25%-50% stenosis)" in one case. In the control group, the reperfusion patency was classified as "no narrowing" in four cases, "moderate narrowing (25%-50% stenosis)" in one case, and "slight narrowing (less than 25% stenosis)" in one case. In the experimental group, intimal proliferation was observed in only two cases, endothelial loss was observed in two cases, and device-induced medial injury was observed in one case. In the control group, intimal proliferation was observed in two cases, endothelial loss was observed in one case, and thrombosis (fibrin/platelet) was observed in one case. The Tromba thrombectomy device showed no significant difference to the conventional Solitaire device in angiographic and histopathologic evaluations after thrombus removal. The stability and efficiency of the newly developed Tromba device are considered to be high and comparable to those of Solitaire.

Citation: Lee SH, et al. In vivo evaluation of histopathologic findings of vascular damage after mechanical thrombectomy with the Tromba device in a canine model of cerebral infarction. In vivo evaluation of histopathologic findings of vascular damage after mechanical thrombectomy with the Tromba device in a canine model of cerebral infarction. 2022; 17:e0276108. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0276108

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36240152/
