PMID: 36245094
Title: Safety Evaluation of Primary Carotid Stenting: Transcranial Doppler and MRI.

Abstract: BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: Cerebral emboli are generated by every step of standard carotid angioplasty and stenting. Primary carotid stenting (PCS) is a technique in which the use of balloon angioplasty (BA) is minimized to decrease the embolic load. The primary aim of this study is to establish the number of emboli generated by each step of primary stenting and determine the relationship to new diffusion (DWI) lesions on subsequent magnetic resonance imaging (MRI).
METHODS: Eighty-five patients with severe, symptomatic carotid stenosis were prospectively recruited and underwent carotid stenting. Intraoperative transcranial Doppler was performed in 77 patients. The number and size of microemboli for each of seven procedural steps were recorded. Correlation was made with the number and location of new DWI lesions.
RESULTS: PCS was performed in 73 patients. BA was required in 12 patients. The mean number of microemboli was 114, and most microemboli were generated by stent deployment, followed by BA. Balloon techniques generated significantly more emboli than primary stenting (p = 0.017). There was a significant relationship between total microemboli and new DWI lesions (p = 0.009), and between new DWI lesions in multiple territories and the severity of pretreatment stenosis (p = 0.002).
CONCLUSIONS: During PCS, more emboli are generated by stent deployment than during any other stage of the procedure. When BA is necessary, more malignant emboli are generated but total emboli are unchanged and there is no difference in new diffusion lesions on MRI. PCS is safe and is not inferior to historical controls for the generation of new DWI lesions.

Citation: Pelz DM, et al. Safety Evaluation of Primary Carotid Stenting: Transcranial Doppler and MRI. Safety Evaluation of Primary Carotid Stenting: Transcranial Doppler and MRI. 2023; 50:651-655. doi: 10.1017/cjn.2022.304

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36245094/
