PMID: 36245593
Title: Diagnostic value of myocardial stress detection based on feature tracking MRI in patients with acute myocardial infarction.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Evaluate the predictive value of myocardial stress measured by magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) on the severity of coronary artery stenosis and acute myocardial infarction (AMI). In the early stage of acute myocardial infarction, many imaging findings are negative, and MRI myocardial stress detection is controversial in the diagnosis of this aspect. Therefore, it is necessary to determine whether MRI myocardial stress can diagnose acute myocardial infarction.
METHODS: A total of 120 patients were divided into an AMI group and non-AMI group. The AMI group was further divided into a mild group, moderate group, and severe group. The myocardial stress was measured by MRI, compared in each group, the correlation between myocardial stress and coronary artery stenosis rate was analyzed, and coronary artery disease (CAD) compared between patients with AMI, and the relationship between myocardial stress and AMI was observed.
RESULTS: Among the 120 patients, there were 77 cases in the AMI group, including 21 cases in the mild group, 40 cases in the moderate group, and 16 cases in the severe group. There were a total of 43 cases in the non-AMI group. Myocardial stress in the AMI group was significantly higher than that in the non-AMI group (P<0.05). The myocardial stress increased gradually in the mild, moderate, and severe AMI groups (P<0.001). Myocardial stress was positively correlated with coronary artery stenosis rate (P<0.001) and CAD (P<0.05). Logistic regression analysis showed that myocardial stress was an independent risk factor for AMI (P<0.05). The sensitivity and specificity of myocardial stress >5.15 mm in the diagnosis of AMI were 83.5%, 68.6% (AUC =0.834), respectively. Acute myocardial infarction is often caused by risk factors such as hyperlipidemia, hypertension and hyperglycemia, as well as vascular stenosis caused by arterial wall malformation, vascular wall inflammation or vasospasm.
CONCLUSIONS: The MRI measurement of myocardial stress is simple, reliable, and practical to evaluate the degree of coronary artery lesions. Myocardial stress is closely related to AMI and can assist in the diagnosis of AMI.

Citation: Feng L, et al. Diagnostic value of myocardial stress detection based on feature tracking MRI in patients with acute myocardial infarction. Diagnostic value of myocardial stress detection based on feature tracking MRI in patients with acute myocardial infarction. 2022; 14:3454-3461. doi: 10.21037/jtd-22-973

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36245593/
