PMID: 36246791
Title: The "Cut-to-the-Light" Technique Laser Endoureterotomy for Complete Ureteral Obstruction Resurfaces! A New Application of an Old Technique.

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: To describe our new endoscopic approach in treating iatrogenic ureteral stenosis using the "cut-to-The-light" technique.
METHODS: Case of a 54 year-old female patient who underwent a right percutaneous nephrolithotomy to treat a staghorn calculus with two subsequent complimentary ureteroscopies complicated by a severe proximal ureteral obstruction. An antegrade flexible uretereroscope and a retrograde rigid ureteroscope were used to locate the stenosis. With the aid of a 365-µm Ho: YAG laser fiber (settings 0.4 J, 12 Hz), we managed to successfully create a small incision in the stenotic lesion, the rigid ureterscopy light was clearly seen by the antegrade flexible ureteroscope and a through-and-through guidewire was then placed, securing the ureter. Ureteral dilatation was then performed followed by a full thickness incision of the ureteral stenosis. A single 8Fr, 28 cm double J ureteral stent was finally placed after stone fragmentation.
RESULTS: The operating time was 200 mins. No blood loss. No fever or signs of UTI were seen shortly after the operation. The Foley catheter was successfully removed at day one post-op. The hospital stay was short of only 2 days.
CONCLUSION: The "cut-to-the-light" technique is a new application in the arsenal of ureteral stricture treatment that has been scarcely described in the literature before. The use of this method seems to offer excellent outcomes thus demonstrating the importance of this minimally invasive technique as an alternative to conventional invasive methods used. We believe that studies with larger samples and longer follow up are needed in order to fully determine the benefits of this method and to assess and reveal its suitable application and its drawbacks.

Citation: Yarak N, et al. The "Cut-to-the-Light" Technique Laser Endoureterotomy for Complete Ureteral Obstruction Resurfaces! A New Application of an Old Technique. The "Cut-to-the-Light" Technique Laser Endoureterotomy for Complete Ureteral Obstruction Resurfaces! A New Application of an Old Technique. 2022; 14:351-358. doi: 10.2147/RRU.S371856

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36246791/
