PMID: 36251423
Title: Consensus and guidelines on lipoprotein(a) - seeing the forest through the trees.

Abstract: PURPOSE OF THE REVIEW: Over the past decade, lipoprotein(a) [Lp(a)] made it to several consensus and guideline documents. This review aims to summarize the literature which underlies the various recommendations and compares recent European and North American consensus and guideline documents of the recent 3-4 years.
RECENT FINDINGS: Multiple large epidemiological and genetic studies have provided strong evidence for a causal association between Lp(a) concentrations and atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease (ASCVD) and aortic valve stenosis. There is a dose-dependent linear relationship between Lp(a) and ASCVD risk advocating to consider Lp(a) on a continuous scale rather than using thresholds. The best way to implement this in the clinic is by individualizing the Lp(a)-related risk using tools such as the 'Lp(a) risk calculator' ( http://www.lpaclinicalguidance.com ) that takes into account the Lp(a) level in the context of an individual's traditional risk factors and global risk for ASCVD. There is growing agreement across the guidelines regarding the clinical utility of measuring Lp(a) and more recent expert groups advocate for a general screening approach applied to all adults. As long as the cardiovascular outcomes trials for specific Lp(a)-lowering drugs are in progress, the current management of patients with high Lp(a) should focus on the comprehensive management of all other modifiable ASCVD risk factors which can be therapeutically addressed as per guideline recommendations.
SUMMARY: Since the contribution of high Lp(a) concentrations to global ASCVD risk has been underestimated in the past, a clear recommendation to measure Lp(a) at least once in a person's lifetime is imperative. Recent expert consensus recommendations provide clinicians with direction on how to manage the excess risk associated with elevated Lp(a) concentration by comprehensive and individualized management of modifiable ASCVD risk factors while awaiting the results of clinical trials of Lp(a) targeted therapies.

Citation: Kronenberg F, et al. Consensus and guidelines on lipoprotein(a) - seeing the forest through the trees. Consensus and guidelines on lipoprotein(a) - seeing the forest through the trees. 2022; 33:342-352. doi: 10.1097/MOL.0000000000000855

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36251423/
