PMID: 36254559
Title: The Applications and Potential Developments of Ultrasound in Oral Cancer Management.

Abstract: Oral cancer is endemic and causes a great burden in Southern Asia. It is preferably treated by surgery with/without adjuvant radiotherapy (RT) or chemoradiation therapy, depending on the stage of the disease. Close or positive resection margin and cervical lymph node (LN) metastasis are important prognostic factors that have been presented to be related to undesirable locoregional recurrence and poor survival. Ultrasound (US) is a simple, noninvasive, time-saving, and inexpensive diagnostic modality. It can depict soft tissues very clearly without the risk of radiation exposure. Additionally, it is real-time and continuous image is demonstrated during the exam. Furthermore, the clinician can perform US-guided fine needle aspiration (FNA) or core needle biopsy (CNB) at the same time. US with/without US-guided FNA/CNB is reported to be of value in determining tumor thickness (TT), depth of invasion (DOI), and cervical LN metastasis, and in aiding the staging of oral cancer. DOI has a relevant prognostic value as reported in the eighth edition of the American Joint Committee on Cancer staging of oral cancer. In the present review, we describe the clinical applications of US in oral cancer management in different phases and potential applications in the future. In the pretreatment and surgical phase, US can be used to evaluate TT/DOI and surgical margins of oral cancer in vivo and ex vivo. The prediction of a malignant cervical LN (nodal metastasis) by the US-based prediction model can guide the necessity of FNA/CNB and elective neck dissection in clinical early-stage oral cancer. In the posttreatment surveillance phase, US with/without US-guided FNA or CNB is helpful in the detection of nodal persistence or LN recurrence, and can assess the possibility and extent of carotid artery stenosis after irradiation therapy. Both US elastography and US swallowing assessment are potentially helpful to the management of oral cancer.

Citation: Lo WC, et al. The Applications and Potential Developments of Ultrasound in Oral Cancer Management. The Applications and Potential Developments of Ultrasound in Oral Cancer Management. 2022; 21:15330338221133216. doi: 10.1177/15330338221133216

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36254559/
