PMID: 36258046
Title: Radiomics features of pericoronary adipose tissue improve CT-FFR performance in predicting hemodynamically significant coronary artery stenosis.

Abstract: OBJECTIVES: To evaluate the value of radiomics-based model of pericoronary adipose tissue (PCAT) combined with CT fractional flow reserve (CT-FFR) in predicting hemodynamically significant coronary stenosis.
METHODS: Patients with suspected or known coronary artery disease, who had coronary computed tomography angiography (CCTA), invasive coronary angiography (ICA), and FFR within 1 month, were retrospectively included. Radiomics features of lesion-based PCAT were extracted. The lesion-specific CT-FFR values, CCTA-derived diameter stenosis, lesion length, and PCAT attenuation were also measured. FFR values were used as the reference standard to assess the diagnostic performance of radiomics model, CT-FFR, and combined model for detection of flow-limiting stenosis.
RESULTS: A total of 146 patients with 180 lesions were included in the study. All lesions were divided into training and validation cohorts at a ratio of 2:1. CT-FFR model exhibited the highest area under the curve (AUC) (0.803 for training, 0.791 for validation) in predicting hemodynamically significant stenosis, followed by radiomics model (0.776 for training, 0.744 for validation). However, no statistically significant difference was found between the AUCs of the above two models (p > 0.05). When CT-FFR was combined with radiomics model, the AUC reached 0.900 for training cohort and 0.875 for validation cohort, which were significantly higher than that of CT-FFR and radiomics model alone (both p < 0.05).
CONCLUSION: The diagnostic performance of PCAT radiomics model was comparable to that of CT-FFR for identification of ischemic coronary stenosis. Adding PCAT radiomics model to CT-FFR showed incremental value in discriminating flow-limiting from non-flow-limiting lesions.
KEY POINTS: • Radiomics analysis of lesion-based PCAT is potentially an alternative method to identify hemodynamic significance of coronary artery stenosis. • Adding radiomics model of PCAT to CT-FFR improved diagnostic performance for the detection of flow-limiting coronary stenosis. • Radiomics features + CT-FFR is a promising noninvasive method for comprehensive evaluation of hemodynamic significance of coronary artery stenosis.

Citation: Yu L, et al. Radiomics features of pericoronary adipose tissue improve CT-FFR performance in predicting hemodynamically significant coronary artery stenosis. Radiomics features of pericoronary adipose tissue improve CT-FFR performance in predicting hemodynamically significant coronary artery stenosis. 2023; 33:2004-2014. doi: 10.1007/s00330-022-09175-7

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36258046/
