PMID: 36250380
Title: NR4A1 modulates intestinal smooth muscle cell phenotype and dampens inflammation-associated intestinal remodeling.

Abstract: Stricture formation is a common complication of Crohn's disease (CD), driven by enhanced deposition of extracellular matrix (ECM) and expansion of the intestinal smooth muscle layers. Nuclear receptor subfamily 4 group A member 1 (NR4A1) is an orphan nuclear receptor that exhibits anti-proliferative effects in smooth muscle cells (SMCs). We hypothesized that NR4A1 regulates intestinal SMC proliferation and muscle thickening in the context of inflammation. Intestinal SMCs isolated from Nr4a1+/+ and Nr4a1-/- littermates were subjected to shotgun proteomic analysis, proliferation, and bioenergetic assays. Proliferation was assessed in the presence and absence of NR4A1 agonists, cytosporone-B (Csn-B) and 6-mercaptopurine (6-MP). In vivo, we compared colonic smooth muscle thickening in Nr4a1+/+ and Nr4a1-/- mice using the chronic dextran sulfate sodium (DSS) model of colitis. Second, SAMP1/YitFc mice (a model of spontaneous ileitis) were treated with Csn-B and small intestinal smooth muscle thickening was assessed. SMCs isolated from Nr4a1-/- mice exhibited increased abundance of proteins related to cell proliferation, metabolism, and ECM production, whereas Nr4a1+/+ SMCs highly expressed proteins related to the regulation of the actin cytoskeleton and contractile processes. SMCs isolated from Nr4a1-/- mice exhibited increased proliferation and alterations in cellular metabolism, whereas activation of NR4A1 attenuated proliferation. In vivo, Nr4a1-/- mice exhibited increased colonic smooth muscle thickness following repeated cycles of DSS. Activating NR4A1 with Csn-B, in the context of established inflammation, reduced ileal smooth muscle thickening in SAMP1/YitFc mice. Targeting NR4A1 may provide a novel approach to regulate intestinal SMC phenotype, limiting excessive proliferation that contributes to stricture development in CD.

Citation: Szczepanski HE, et al. NR4A1 modulates intestinal smooth muscle cell phenotype and dampens inflammation-associated intestinal remodeling. NR4A1 modulates intestinal smooth muscle cell phenotype and dampens inflammation-associated intestinal remodeling. 2022; 36:e22609. doi: 10.1096/fj.202101817RR

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36250380/
