PMID: 36258885
Title: Simulation of laryngotracheal reconstruction with 3D-printed models and porcine cadaveric models.

Abstract: OBJECTIVES: Laryngotracheal reconstruction (LTR) is a complex operation used to treat subglottic stenosis. The use of simulator models is a valuable tool in surgical trainee education, particularly for operations such as LTR that are less common outside high-volume centers. Three-dimensional (3D) printing of the human airway may provide an effective and more accessible alternative to porcine cadaveric models. The objective of this study is to compare the educational value of a 3D-printed model and a porcine cadaveric model as LTR simulation methods.
METHODS: Simulated LTR procedures were completed by 12 otolaryngology residents and a faculty physician on the cadaveric model and the 3D-printed simulator model. Both models were evaluated by fellowship-trained pediatric otolaryngologists to establish construct validity. Pre-procedure surveys of participants evaluated confidence and attitude toward models and post-procedure surveys evaluated confidence, overall impressions, relevance, content validity, and face validity.
RESULTS: Participants reported a similar mean increase in confidence after performing LTR on the 3D-printed model (14%) and cadaveric model (11%). Participants rated both models similarly for utility as an overall training tool and in teaching surgical planning and improving operative techniques. However, participants found the 3D-printed model more useful for teaching anatomy (p = .047).
CONCLUSION: 3D-printed models have practical benefits over cadaveric models; they do not decompose and can be custom made to model a disease state such as subglottic stenosis. Participants reported a similar mean increase in confidence after using either simulation. The 3D-printed model is a promising simulation candidate as it compares well to an animal model and has the advantage of being more anatomically true to pediatric patients.Level of Evidence: Level 2.

Citation: Falls M, et al. Simulation of laryngotracheal reconstruction with 3D-printed models and porcine cadaveric models. Simulation of laryngotracheal reconstruction with 3D-printed models and porcine cadaveric models. 2022; 7:1603-1610. doi: 10.1002/lio2.884

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36258885/
