PMID: 36264181
Title: Interframe Echo Intensity Variation of Subregions and Whole Plaque in Two-Dimensional Carotid Ultrasonography: Simulations and In Vivo Observations.

Abstract: OBJECTIVES: The risk of cardiovascular disease is associated with the echo intensity of carotid plaques in ultrasound images and their cardiac cycle-induced intensity variations. In this study, we aimed to 1) explore the underlying origin of echo intensity variations by using simulations and 2) evaluate the association between the two-dimensional (2D) spatial distribution of these echo intensity variations and plaque vulnerability.
METHODS: First, we analyzed how out-of-plane motion and compression of simulated scattering spheres of different sizes affect the ultrasound echo intensity. Next, we propose a method to analyze the features of the 2D spatial distribution of interframe plaque echo intensity in carotid ultrasound image sequences and explore their associations with plaque vulnerability in experimental data.
RESULTS: The simulations showed that the magnitude of echo intensity changes was similar for both the out-of-plane motion and compression, but for scattering objects smaller than 1 mm radius, the out-of-plane motion dominated. In experimental data, maps of the 2D spatial distribution of the echo intensity variations had a low correlation with standard B-mode echo intensity distribution, indicating complementary information on plaque tissue composition. In addition, we found the existence of ∼1 mm diameter subregions with pronounced echo intensity variations associated with plaque vulnerability.
CONCLUSIONS: The results indicate that out-of-plane motion contributes to intra-plaque regions of high echo intensity variation. The 2D echo intensity variation maps may provide complementary information for assessing plaque composition and vulnerability. Further studies are needed to verify this method's role in identifying vulnerable plaques and predicting cardiovascular disease risk.

Citation: Rohlén R, et al. Interframe Echo Intensity Variation of Subregions and Whole Plaque in Two-Dimensional Carotid Ultrasonography: Simulations and In Vivo Observations. Interframe Echo Intensity Variation of Subregions and Whole Plaque in Two-Dimensional Carotid Ultrasonography: Simulations and In Vivo Observations. 2023; 42:1033-1046. doi: 10.1002/jum.16114

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36264181/
