PMID: 36269648
Title: Deep learning-based prediction of coronary artery stenosis resistance.

Abstract: Coronary artery stenosis resistance (SR) is a key factor for noninvasive calculations of fractional flow reserve derived from coronary CT angiography (FFR<sub>CT</sub>). Existing computational fluid dynamics (CFD) methods, including three-dimensional (3-D) computational and zero-dimensional (0-D) analytical models, are usually limited by high calculation cost or low precision. In this study, we have developed a multi-input back-propagation neural network (BPNN) that can rapidly and accurately predict coronary SR. A training data set including 3,028 idealized anatomic coronary artery stenosis models was constructed for 3-D CFD calculation of SR with specific blood flow boundaries. Based on 3-D calculation results, we established a BPNN whose input is geometric parameters and blood flow, whereas output is SR. Then, a test set (324 cases) was constructed to evaluate the performance of the BPNN model. To verify the validity and practicability of the network, BPNN prediction results were compared with 3-D CFD and 0-D analytical model results from patient-specific models. For test set, the mean square error (MSE) between CFD and prediction results was 2.97%, linear regression analysis indicating a good correlation between the two (P &lt; 0.001). For 30 patient-specific models, the MSE of BPNN and the 0-D model were 3.26 and 9.7%, respectively. The calculation time for BPNN and the 3-D CFD model for 30 cases was about 2.15 s and 2 h, respectively. The present results demonstrate the practicability of using deep learning methods for fast and accurate predictions of coronary artery SR. Our study represents an advance in noninvasive calculations of FFR<sub>CT</sub>.NEW &amp; NOTEWORTHY This study developed a multi-input back-propagation neural network (BPNN) that can be used to predict coronary artery stenosis resistance by inputting vascular geometric parameters and blood flow. Compared with previous studies, the network developed in this study can accurately and rapidly predict coronary artery stenosis resistance, which can not only meet clinical requirements but also reduce the cost of calculation duration. This study contributes to the noninvasive methods for the numerical calculation of fractional flow reserve derived from coronary CT angiography (FFRCT) and indicates that this technique can potentially be used for evaluating myocardial ischemia.

Citation: Sun H, et al. Deep learning-based prediction of coronary artery stenosis resistance. Deep learning-based prediction of coronary artery stenosis resistance. 2022; 323:H1194-H1205. doi: 10.1152/ajpheart.00269.2022

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36269648/
