PMID: 36273866
Title: Spatially separate cerebral infarction in the posterior cerebral artery territory after combined revascularization of the middle cerebral artery territory in an adult patient with moyamoya disease and fetal-type posterior communicating artery: illustrative case.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Remote cerebral infarction after combined revascularization of the middle cerebral artery (MCA) territory is rare in patients with moyamoya disease (MMD) with a fetal-type posterior communicating artery (PCoA).
OBSERVATIONS: A 57-year-old woman developed numbness in her right upper limb and transient motor weakness and was diagnosed with MMD. She also had a headache attack and a scintillating scotoma in the right visual field. Preoperative magnetic resonance angiography (MRA) showed stenosis of the left posterior cerebral artery (PCA). Combined revascularization was performed for the left MCA territory. No new neurological deficits were observed for 2 days after the operation, but right hemianopia, alexia, and agraphia appeared on postoperative day (POD) 4. Magnetic resonance imaging showed a new left occipitoparietal lobe infarction, and MRA showed occlusion of the distal left PCA. After that point, the alexia and agraphia gradually improved, but right hemianopia remained at the time of discharge on POD 18.
LESSONS: Cerebral ischemia in the PCA territory may occur after combined revascularization of the MCA territory in patients with fetal-type PCoA. For these cases, a double-barrel bypass or indirect revascularization to induce a slow conversion could be considered on its own as a treatment option.

Citation: Araki Y, et al. Spatially separate cerebral infarction in the posterior cerebral artery territory after combined revascularization of the middle cerebral artery territory in an adult patient with moyamoya disease and fetal-type posterior communicating artery: illustrative case. Spatially separate cerebral infarction in the posterior cerebral artery territory after combined revascularization of the middle cerebral artery territory in an adult patient with moyamoya disease and fetal-type posterior communicating artery: illustrative case. 2022; 3:(unknown pages). doi: 10.3171/CASE21704

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36273866/
