PMID: 36271623
Title: Numerical simulation of flow characteristics in a permeable liver sinusoid with leukocytes.

Abstract: Double-layered channels of sinusoid lumen and Disse space separated by fenestrated liver sinusoidal endothelial cells (LSECs) endow the unique mechanical environment of the liver sinusoid network, which further guarantees its biological function. It is also known that this mechanical environment changes dramatically under liver fibrosis and cirrhosis, including the reduced plasma penetration and metabolite exchange between the two flow channels and the reduced Disse space deformability. The squeezing of leukocytes through narrow sinusoid lumen also affects the mechanical environment of liver sinusoid. To date, the detailed flow-field profile of liver sinusoid is still far from clear due to experimental limitations. It also remains elusive whether and how the varied physical properties of the pathological liver sinusoid regulate the fluid flow characteristics. Here a numerical model based on the immersed boundary method was established, and the effects of Disse space and leukocyte elasticities, endothelium permeability, and sinusoidal stenosis degree on fluid flow as well as leukocyte trafficking were specified upon a mimic liver sinusoid structure. Results showed that endothelium permeability dominantly controlled the plasma penetration velocity across the endothelium, whereas leukocyte squeezing promoted local penetration and significantly regulated wall shear stress on hepatocytes, which was strongly related to the Disse space and leukocyte deformability. Permeability and elasticity cooperatively regulated the process of leukocytes trafficking through the liver sinusoid, especially for stiffer leukocytes. This study will offer new insights into deeper understanding of the elaborate mechanical features of liver sinusoid and corresponding biological function.

Citation: Chen S, et al. Numerical simulation of flow characteristics in a permeable liver sinusoid with leukocytes. Numerical simulation of flow characteristics in a permeable liver sinusoid with leukocytes. 2022; 121:4666-4678. doi: 10.1016/j.bpj.2022.10.022

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36271623/
