PMID: 36277789
Title: Calcification of the abdominal aorta is an under-appreciated cardiovascular disease risk factor in the general population.

Abstract: Calcification of large arteries is a high-risk factor in the development of cardiovascular diseases, however, due to the lack of routine monitoring, the pathology remains severely under-diagnosed and prevalence in the general population is not known. We have developed a set of machine learning methods to quantitate levels of abdominal aortic calcification (AAC) in the UK Biobank imaging cohort and carried out the largest to-date analysis of genetic, biochemical, and epidemiological risk factors associated with the pathology. In a genetic association study, we identified three novel loci associated with AAC (FGF9, NAV9, and APOE), and replicated a previously reported association at the TWIST1/HDAC9 locus. We find that AAC is a highly prevalent pathology, with ~ 1 in 10 adults above the age of 40 showing significant levels of hydroxyapatite build-up (Kauppila score &gt; 3). Presentation of AAC was strongly predictive of future cardiovascular events including stenosis of precerebral arteries (HR~1.5), myocardial infarction (HR~1.3), ischemic heart disease (HR~1.3), as well as other diseases such as chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (HR~1.3). Significantly, we find that the risk for myocardial infarction from elevated AAC (HR ~1.4) was comparable to the risk of hypercholesterolemia (HR~1.4), yet most people who develop AAC are not hypercholesterolemic. Furthermore, the overwhelming majority (98%) of individuals who develop pathology do so in the absence of known pre-existing risk conditions such as chronic kidney disease and diabetes (0.6% and 2.7% respectively). Our findings indicate that despite the high cardiovascular risk, calcification of large arteries remains a largely under-diagnosed lethal condition, and there is a clear need for increased awareness and monitoring of the pathology in the general population.

Citation: Sethi A, et al. Calcification of the abdominal aorta is an under-appreciated cardiovascular disease risk factor in the general population. Calcification of the abdominal aorta is an under-appreciated cardiovascular disease risk factor in the general population. 2022; 9:1003246. doi: 10.3389/fcvm.2022.1003246

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36277789/
