PMID: 36286281
Title: The Association of Triglyceride to High-Density Lipoprotein Cholesterol Ratio with High-Risk Coronary Plaque Characteristics Determined by CT Angiography and Its Risk of Coronary Heart Disease.

Abstract: The triglyceride to high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (TG/HDL-C) ratio is an independent risk index for cardiovascular events. This study aimed to evaluate the association between TG/HDL-C ratio and coronary plaque characteristics as seen on coronary computed tomography angiography (CCTA) and the corresponding increase in the likelihood of cardiovascular events. A total of 935 patients who underwent CCTA for suspected coronary artery disease (CAD) were included. High-risk plaques (HRP) were defined based on three characteristics: positive remodeling, low-density plaques, and spotty calcification. Significant stenosis was defined as luminal narrowing of >70%. Patients with a higher TG/HDL-C ratio showed significantly greater prevalence of HRP and significant stenosis than patients with low TG/HDL-C ratios (p < 0.01). Multivariate logistic analysis demonstrated that the TG/HDL-C ratio was significantly associated with the presence of HRP (p < 0.01) but not with significant coronary stenosis (p = 0.24). During the median follow-up period of 4.1 years, 26 cardiovascular events including cardiovascular death and acute coronary syndrome occurred. The highest TG/HDL-C tertile was associated with cardiovascular events, with the lowest TG/HDL-C tertile as the reference (hazard ratio, 3.75; 95% confidence interval, 1.04−13.50). A high TG/HDL-C ratio is associated with the presence of CCTA-verified HRP, which can lead to cardiovascular events in patients with suspected CAD.

Citation: Koide Y, et al. The Association of Triglyceride to High-Density Lipoprotein Cholesterol Ratio with High-Risk Coronary Plaque Characteristics Determined by CT Angiography and Its Risk of Coronary Heart Disease. The Association of Triglyceride to High-Density Lipoprotein Cholesterol Ratio with High-Risk Coronary Plaque Characteristics Determined by CT Angiography and Its Risk of Coronary Heart Disease. 2022; 9:(unknown pages). doi: 10.3390/jcdd9100329

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36286281/
