PMID: 36282705
Title: O-Ring Aortic Banding Versus Traditional Transverse Aortic Constriction for Modeling Pressure Overload-Induced Cardiac Hypertrophy.

Abstract: Aortic banding in mice is one of the most commonly used experimental models for cardiac pressure overload-induced cardiac hypertrophy and the induction of heart failure. The previously used technique is based on a threaded suture around the aortic arch tied over a blunted 27 G needle to create stenosis. This method depends on the surgeon manually tightening the thread and, thus, leads to high variance in the diameter size. A newly refined method described by Melleby et al. promises less variance and more reproducibility after surgery. The new technique, o-ring- aortic banding (ORAB), uses a non-slip rubber ring instead of a suture with a thread, resulting in reduced variation in pressure overload and reproducible phenotypes of cardiac hypertrophy. During surgery, the o-ring is placed between the brachiocephalic and left carotid arteries. Successful constriction is confirmed by echocardiography. After 1 day, correct placement of the ring results in an increased flow velocity in the transverse aorta over the o-ring-induced stenosis. After 2 weeks, impaired cardiac function is proven by decreased ejection fraction and increased wall thickness. Importantly, besides less variance in the diameter size, ORAB is associated with lower intra- and post-operative mortality rates compared with transverse aortic constriction (TAC). Thus, ORAB represents a superior method to the commonly used TAC surgery, resulting in more reproducible results and a possible reduction in the number of animals needed.

Citation: Schmiedel N, et al. O-Ring Aortic Banding Versus Traditional Transverse Aortic Constriction for Modeling Pressure Overload-Induced Cardiac Hypertrophy. O-Ring Aortic Banding Versus Traditional Transverse Aortic Constriction for Modeling Pressure Overload-Induced Cardiac Hypertrophy. 2022; (unknown volume):(unknown pages). doi: 10.3791/64455

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36282705/
