PMID: 36287154
Title: [Ocular microcirculation after revascularization of the internal carotid artery in the early postoperative period].

Abstract: UNLABELLED: Carotid artery stenosis is the most common cause of ischemic stroke and transient ischemic attacks in the population of developed countries. Carotid endarterectomy (CEA) and carotid stenting (CAS) are effective treatments for carotid stenosis. In view of the need to improve the diagnosis of this condition and the anatomical relationship of the internal carotid arteries and vessels of the eye, studying retinal microvasculature has become an urgent problem. The theory suggesting that changes in ocular blood flow parameters may reflect disease status in patients with internal carotid artery (ICA) stenosis requires further investigation.
PURPOSE: To study the impact of CEA and CAS interventions on ocular blood flow in patients with clinically significant ICA stenosis in the early postoperative period.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: Thirty-two patients with hemodynamically significant stenosis (≥75%) of the left or right ICA were examined using optical coherence tomography angiography (OCT-A) and flowmetry before and after CEA or CAS in order to assess the changes in ocular blood flow parameters.
RESULTS: There were no significant differences in hemodynamic parameters in the eyes on the side of the stenotic and non-stenotic ICA before revascularization. In the early postoperative period (3-7 days) in the ipsilateral eyes, there was an increase in blood flow density and vascular density at the level of the superficial and deep plexuses in the macular area (p≤0.05), as well as an increase in the ocular blood flow volume, the level of tolerated intraocular pressure (p≤0.05) and a decrease in intraocular pressure (p≤0.05) bilaterally. In the contralateral eyes, after ICA revascularization there was a partial improvement in microcirculation parameters according to OCT-A (p≤0.05). Peripapillary blood flow density and peripapillary vessel density did not change significantly either on the ipsilateral or the contralateral side.
CONCLUSION: In patients with clinically significant ICA stenosis, ICA revascularization by stenting or endarterectomy contributed to an improvement in retinal microcirculation and retrobulbar blood flow in both eyes. OCT-A and flowmetry allow non-invasive assessment of retinal microvessels and retrobulbar blood flow, and the measurements provided by these methods can serve as valuable biomarkers for predicting and monitoring hemodynamic changes in patients who undergo CEA and CAS surgeries.

Citation: Yusef YN, et al. [Ocular microcirculation after revascularization of the internal carotid artery in the early postoperative period]. [Ocular microcirculation after revascularization of the internal carotid artery in the early postoperative period]. 2022; 138:186-195. doi: 10.17116/oftalma2022138052186

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36287154/
