PMID: 36280194
Title: Transcarotid artery revascularization can safely be performed with regional anesthesia and no intensive care unit stay.

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: Hospital resource use is under constant review, and the extent and intensity of postoperative care requirements for vascular surgical procedures is particularly relevant in the setting of the coronavirus disease 2019 pandemic and its impact on staffed intensive care unit (ICU) beds. We sought to evaluate the feasibility of regional anesthesia (RA) and low-intensity postoperative care for patients undergoing transcarotid artery revascularization (TCAR) at our institution.
METHODS: All patients undergoing TCAR at a single institution from 2018 to 2020 were reviewed. Perioperative management (anticoagulation and antiplatelet therapy, hemodynamic monitoring, neurovascular examination, nursing instructions) was standardized by use of an institutional protocol. Anesthetic modality was at the surgeon's preference. Patients were transferred to a postanesthesia care unit for 2 hours followed by the step-down unit, to a postanesthesia care unit for 4 hours followed by the floor, or alternatively transferred to the ICU. Intravenous (IV) blood pressure medications could be administered at all environments except the floor. Recovery location and length of stay were recorded.
RESULTS: A total of 83 patients underwent TCAR during the study period. The mean age 72 ± 9 years and 59% were male. Thirty-six percent were symptomatic. RA was used for 84% with none converted to general anesthesia (GA) intraoperatively. Postoperatively, 7 of the 83 patients (8%) included in this study were monitored in an ICU overnight (decided perioperatively), mostly for patients with prior neurological symptoms, but in 1 case for postoperative neurological event and in another owing to pulseless electrical activity arrest. Six patients required IV antihypertensives and eight required IV vasoactive support postoperatively. The mean length of ICU stay was 3.7 ± 5.1 days. The mean length of hospital stay for all patients was 2.4 ± 3.3 days. The length of stay for patients undergoing TCAR with GA was higher than those undergoing TCAR with RA (4.2 ± 4.9 days vs 1.4 ± 1.2 days, respectively; P = .066). The incidence of stroke, death, and myocardial infarction was 2.4%. There was one postoperative stroke considered to be a recrudescence of prior stroke, and one respiratory arrest fatality in a frail patient with neck hematoma both of whom were treated under GA.
CONCLUSIONS: Using perioperative care protocols, TCAR can safely be performed while avoiding both GA and an ICU stay in most patients.

Citation: Mehta V, et al. Transcarotid artery revascularization can safely be performed with regional anesthesia and no intensive care unit stay. Transcarotid artery revascularization can safely be performed with regional anesthesia and no intensive care unit stay. 2023; 77:555-558. doi: 10.1016/j.jvs.2022.09.026

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36280194/
