PMID: 36291362
Title: Utility of Functional Lumen Imaging Probe in Long-Term Follow-Up of Children with Esophageal Atresia: A Single-Center Retrospective Study.

Abstract: Long term follow-up of patients with esophageal atresia (EA) may be hampered by esophageal dysmotility, which affects quality of life and might lead to late complications. The endoluminal functional lumen imaging probe (EndoFlip™ Medtronic, Crospon Inc.) is an innovative diagnostic tool that assesses esophageal distensibility. Our aim was to report the use of EndoFlip™ in an EA follow-up, in order to describe distensibility patterns and to determine its possible role for functional evaluation of patients. We retrospectively collected data of EA patients, with a minimum follow-up of 9 years, who required endoscopic evaluation and underwent EndoFlip™. An adaptation of the Medtronic EF-322 protocol was applied and distensibility data were compared to those reported by Pandolfino et al. Nine patients (median age 13 years) were included in the study. The median minimum distensibility was 2.58 mm2/mmHg. Signs of peristalsis were observed in three patients. In one case, the esophagogastric junction (EGJ) after Toupet fundoplication showed low distensibility. EGJ distensibility values of 2.58 mm2/mmHg (median) confirmed both good esophagogastric continence and compliance. Esophagitis and absent peristalsis were found in one patient together with partial stenosis of the fundoplication, confirming the importance of surgical adaptation. Esophageal body distensibility was higher than that of the EGJ. Considering the presence of symptoms, the EndoFlip™ results seem to correlate better with the clinical picture. EndoFlip™ use was safe and feasible in children. It allowed for the measurement of esophageal distensibility and diameter and the acquisition of indirect information on motility with clinical implications. The routine use of EndoFlip™ could be part of EA follow-up, although considerable research is needed to correlate Endoflip™ system measurements to EA patient outcomes.

Citation: Destro F, et al. Utility of Functional Lumen Imaging Probe in Long-Term Follow-Up of Children with Esophageal Atresia: A Single-Center Retrospective Study. Utility of Functional Lumen Imaging Probe in Long-Term Follow-Up of Children with Esophageal Atresia: A Single-Center Retrospective Study. 2022; 9:(unknown pages). doi: 10.3390/children9101426

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36291362/
