PMID: 36294835
Title: Risks of Carotid Artery Stenosis and Atherosclerotic Cardiovascular Disease in Patients with Calcium Kidney Stone: Assessment of Systemic Inflammatory Biomarkers.

Abstract: (1) Background: To assess the clinical significance of preoperative inflammatory biomarkers combined with atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease (ASCVD) risk score to evaluate carotid artery stenosis in patients with calcium kidney stones; (2) Methods: We conducted a prospective observational case-control study, enrolling 74 patients with calcium kidney stones and 66 age- and sex-matched healthy controls. We calculated the inflammatory biomarkers including the neutrophil-lymphocyte ratio (NLR), monocyte-lymphocyte ratio (MLR), and systemic inflammation response index (SIRI). An ultrasound of the carotid arteries was performed on all participants to identify the severity of the stenosis; (3) Results: All inflammatory biomarkers and the severity of carotid artery stenosis were higher in the calcium kidney stone group than in controls. After stratification of ASCVD, inflammatory biomarkers and carotid artery stenosis severity were still significantly higher in the calcium kidney stone group. Multivariate analyses showed that calcium kidney stones significantly increased the risk of ASCVD and carotid artery stenosis. In multivariate linear logistic regression analyses, calcium kidney stone and ASCVD score had a significant association with carotid artery occlusion, but SIRI did not; (4) Conclusions: Calcium kidney stone is associated with higher levels of inflammatory biomarkers and carotid artery stenosis. Calcium kidney stone is associated with higher levels of inflammatory biomarkers and carotid artery stenosis.

Citation: Liu CJ, et al. Risks of Carotid Artery Stenosis and Atherosclerotic Cardiovascular Disease in Patients with Calcium Kidney Stone: Assessment of Systemic Inflammatory Biomarkers. Risks of Carotid Artery Stenosis and Atherosclerotic Cardiovascular Disease in Patients with Calcium Kidney Stone: Assessment of Systemic Inflammatory Biomarkers. 2022; 12:(unknown pages). doi: 10.3390/jpm12101697

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36294835/
