PMID: 36303488
Title: Role of electromyography and ultrasonography in the diagnosis of double crush lumbar radiculopathy and common fibular injury: illustrative cases.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Double crush syndrome consists of two compression sites along a peripheral nerve and is rare in the lower extremities. Electrodiagnostic and ultrasound (US) studies may be helpful in evaluating foot drop involving overlapping pathologies.
OBSERVATIONS: Case 1 involved a man who presented with left dorsiflexor weakness and left foot numbness. Electromyography (EMG) revealed a left common fibular nerve entrapment neuropathy and left L5 radiculopathy. US and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) revealed a large cystic lesion of the left common fibular nerve treated by cyst removal. The left foot drop persisted postoperatively. Lumbar computed tomography myelography revealed severe left foraminal stenosis at L5-S1. Multilevel lumbar laminectomies and facetectomies with an L5-S1 fusion were performed. Within 1 month postoperatively, the left foot drop had improved. Case 2 involved a man who developed a right foot drop caused by right lumbar foraminal stenosis at L4-5 and L5-S1. EMG and US of the right common fibular neuropathy showed large fascicles involving the right common fibular nerve. MRI revealed a hyperintense signal of the right common fibular nerve. Spontaneous improvement occurred within 6 months without surgery.
LESSONS: Spine surgeons should recognize double crush in the lower extremities. EMG and US are valuable in detecting peripheral nerve abnormalities, especially in cases with overlapping lumbar pathology.

Citation: Shields LBE, et al. Role of electromyography and ultrasonography in the diagnosis of double crush lumbar radiculopathy and common fibular injury: illustrative cases. Role of electromyography and ultrasonography in the diagnosis of double crush lumbar radiculopathy and common fibular injury: illustrative cases. 2022; 3:(unknown pages). doi: 10.3171/CASE21566

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36303488/
