PMID: 36303701
Title: How long should it be insisted on rigid bronchoscopy in the treatment of postintubation tracheal stenosis in accordance with different stenosis classification systems?

Abstract: BACKGROUND: In this study, we aimed to investigate the effectiveness of isolated rigid bronchoscopy used in the treatment of postintubation tracheal stenosis by its relationship with the most frequently used classifications, our own classification Stenosis Index, stenosis dimensions and its combinations.
METHODS: Between March 2010 and July 2020, a total of 39 patients (16 males, 23 females; mean age: 41.5±20.7 years; range, 15 to 72 years) who had isolated rigid bronchoscopic dilation as a result of postintubation tracheal stenosis were retrospectively analyzed. The duration of treatment, the number of procedures, and the success of the treatment of patients were analyzed according to the most frequently used classifications and compared to our new classification.
RESULTS: A statistically significant difference was found between the Stenosis Index groups in terms of the number of procedures and duration of treatment (p<0.01, p<0.01, respectively). No statistically significant differences were observed among the most frequently used classifications in terms of number of procedures and duration of treatment. The Stenosis Index classification groups most consistently reflected the success rate of the procedure, the number of procedures, the duration of the treatment and the rate of patients resected.
CONCLUSION: The Stenosis Index classification was considered to be a more effective parameter than the most frequently used classifications on the decision to give the patients with postintubation tracheal stenosis a chance to treat with bronchoscopic dilations procedure before resection.

Citation: Sezer HF and Eliçora A. How long should it be insisted on rigid bronchoscopy in the treatment of postintubation tracheal stenosis in accordance with different stenosis classification systems?. How long should it be insisted on rigid bronchoscopy in the treatment of postintubation tracheal stenosis in accordance with different stenosis classification systems?. 2022; 30:410-420. doi: 10.5606/tgkdc.dergisi.2022.22446

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36303701/
