PMID: 36309168
Title: Cerebral Protection of Intraoperative Infusion of Dexmedetomidine in Patients with Chronic Cerebrovascular Stenosis Undergoing Endovascular Interventional Therapies: A Prospective Randomized Controlled Trial.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: To investigate the cerebral protective effect of intraoperative dexmedetomidine infusion on patients with chronic cerebral vascular stenosis receiving endovascular interventional therapy.
METHODS: Sixty patients with carotid artery or cerebral artery stenosis or occlusion stenting under elective general anesthesia were divided into dexmedetomidine group (group D) and normal saline group (group N). Group D was given dexmedetomidine loading dose 1.0 μg/kg after peripheral vein opening for 10 min, and then adjusted infusion rate to 0.5 μg/kg/h until stopped 30 min before end.
RESULTS: At 7 days after operation, the contents of S100β, neuron-specific enolase (NSE) and interleukin-6 (IL-6) in group D were apparently lower than those in group N (P < 0.05), while the contents of IL-1β and tumor necrosis factor-α in 2 groups showed no statistical significance (P > 0.05). Additionally, at 4 days and 7 days after operation, the scores of Mini-Mental State Scale (MMSE) and Wechsler Memory Scale (WMS) in group D were significantly higher than those in group N (P < 0.05). Thirty days after surgery, the cerebral hemodynamic indexes (relative mean transit time, relative time to peak) in group D were significantly improved, and obviously better than those in group N (P < 0.05).
CONCLUSIONS: The S-100β, NSE, and inflammatory mediator IL-6 in group D were significantly decreased compared with group N, the MMSE and WMS cognitive function scores, and the cerebral blood perfusion were apparently improved in group D, clarifying dexmedetomidine has protective effect on nerve tissue injury by inhibiting inflammation.

Citation: Yang J, et al. Cerebral Protection of Intraoperative Infusion of Dexmedetomidine in Patients with Chronic Cerebrovascular Stenosis Undergoing Endovascular Interventional Therapies: A Prospective Randomized Controlled Trial. Cerebral Protection of Intraoperative Infusion of Dexmedetomidine in Patients with Chronic Cerebrovascular Stenosis Undergoing Endovascular Interventional Therapies: A Prospective Randomized Controlled Trial. 2023; 89:182-189. doi: 10.1016/j.avsg.2022.09.050

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36309168/
