PMID: 36301488
Title: Six Decades of History of Hypertension Research at the University of Toledo: Highlighting Pioneering Contributions in Biochemistry, Genetics, and Host-Microbiota Interactions.

Abstract: PURPOSE OF REVIEW: The study aims to capture the history and lineage of hypertension researchers from the University of Toledo in Ohio and showcase their collective scientific contributions dating from their initial discoveries of the physiology of adrenal and renal systems and genetics regulating blood pressure (BP) to its more contemporary contributions including microbiota and metabolomic links to BP regulation.
RECENT FINDINGS: The University of Toledo College of Medicine and Life Sciences (UTCOMLS), previously known as the Medical College of Ohio, has contributed significantly to our understanding of the etiology of hypertension. Two of the scientists, Patrick Mulrow and John Rapp from UTCOMLS, have been recognized with the highest honor, the Excellence in Hypertension award from the American Heart Association for their pioneering work on the physiology and genetics of hypertension, respectively. More recently, Bina Joe has continued their legacy in the basic sciences by uncovering previously unknown novel links between microbiota and metabolites to the etiology of hypertension, work that has been recognized by the American Heart Association with multiple awards. On the clinical research front, Christopher Cooper and colleagues lead the CORAL trials and contributed importantly to the investigations on renal artery stenosis treatment paradigms. Hypertension research at this institution has not only provided these pioneering insights, but also grown careers of scientists as leaders in academia as University Presidents and Deans of Medical Schools. Through the last decade, the university has expanded its commitment to Hypertension research as evident through the development of the Center for Hypertension and Precision Medicine led by Bina Joe as its founding Director. Hypertension being the top risk factor for cardiovascular diseases, which is the leading cause of human mortality, is an important area of research in multiple international universities. The UTCOMLS is one such university which, for the last 6 decades, has made significant contributions to our current understanding of hypertension. This review is a synthesis of this rich history. Additionally, it also serves as a collection of audio archives by more recent faculty who are also prominent leaders in the field of hypertension research, including John Rapp, Bina Joe, and Christopher Cooper, which are cataloged at Interviews .

Citation: Gokula V, et al. Six Decades of History of Hypertension Research at the University of Toledo: Highlighting Pioneering Contributions in Biochemistry, Genetics, and Host-Microbiota Interactions. Six Decades of History of Hypertension Research at the University of Toledo: Highlighting Pioneering Contributions in Biochemistry, Genetics, and Host-Microbiota Interactions. 2022; 24:669-685. doi: 10.1007/s11906-022-01226-0

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36301488/
