PMID: 36307032
Title: Association between Carotid Intraplaque Neovascularization Detected by Contrast-Enhanced Ultrasound and the Progression of Coronary Lesions in Patients Undergoing Percutaneous Coronary Intervention.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: It is thought that the progression of vulnerable plaque is due in part to neovascularization, and plaque vulnerability is a useful approach for classifying cardiovascular risk. The aim of this retrospective study was to evaluate the correlation between carotid intraplaque neovascularization (IPN) detected on contrast-enhanced ultrasound and the progression of coronary lesions in patients undergoing percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI).
METHODS: Contrast-enhanced ultrasound and angiography were performed in 131 patients undergoing PCI. All patients had angiograms obtained ≥12 months after PCI, and progression was defined using those angiograms. On the basis of angiographic images, patients were divided into progression and nonprogression groups. IPN was graded from 0 to 3 according to each plaque's microbubble appearance and extent, detected using contrast-enhanced ultrasound. The plaque with the highest IPN was used for analysis. Logistic regression and receiver operating characteristic analyses were applied to evaluate risk factors for predicting the progression of coronary lesions in patients undergoing PCI.
RESULTS: In the progression group, the numbers of patients with IPN values of 0, 1, 2, and 3 were one (3.3%), nine (30.0%), 16 (53.3%), and four (13.3%), respectively. Significant differences were found in maximum plaque height and IPN between groups. IPN and maximum plaque height were independent risk contributors to coronary lesion progression in patients undergoing PCI. The sensitivity, specificity, positive predictive value, and negative predictive value of IPN of 1.5 and to predict the progression of coronary lesions were 67%, 91%, 68%, and 89%, respectively. The area under the curve was 0.822.
CONCLUSIONS: Carotid plaque neovascularization was correlated with the progression of coronary lesions in patients undergoing PCI. IPN is a clinically useful tool for detecting the progression of coronary lesions and for risk stratification, especially in patients >60 years old.

Citation: Han Y, et al. Association between Carotid Intraplaque Neovascularization Detected by Contrast-Enhanced Ultrasound and the Progression of Coronary Lesions in Patients Undergoing Percutaneous Coronary Intervention. Association between Carotid Intraplaque Neovascularization Detected by Contrast-Enhanced Ultrasound and the Progression of Coronary Lesions in Patients Undergoing Percutaneous Coronary Intervention. 2023; 36:216-223. doi: 10.1016/j.echo.2022.10.012

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36307032/
