PMID: 36317197
Title: Association between periprocedural myocardial injury and long-term all-cause mortality in patients undergoing transcatheter aortic valve replacement: a systematic review and meta-analysis.

Abstract: Objective. The purpose of this meta-analysis was to investigate the effect of periprocedural myocardial injury (PPMI) on long-term all-cause mortality in patients undergoing transcatheter aortic valve replacement (TAVR) and to explore potential factors associated with mortality risk. Design. The PubMed, Embase, and Cochrane Library databases were searched up to April 2022. Studies reporting the effect of PPMI on the risk of long-term all-cause mortality were included. The summary odds ratio (OR) was calculated using a random effects model. Additionally, meta-regression and subgroup analyses were conducted according to specific research characteristics to explore sources of heterogeneity. Results. Fourteen studies involving 6,415 patients who underwent TAVR showed that the occurrence of PPMI was associated with a higher risk of long-term mortality. Subgroup analysis showed that in the group of aged ≥82 years, men accounted for less than 50%, coronary artery disease patients accounted for more than 50%, and the proportion of patients with chronic kidney disease accounted for more than 60%, the proportion of patients with atria fibrillation accounted for less than 30%, and the Society of Thoracic Surgeons predicted risk of mortality score was &gt;8 points, patients with PPMI had higher long-term all-cause mortality than those without PPMI. Conclusions. Among the patients who underwent TAVR, those who developed PPMI had higher long-term all-cause mortality.

Citation: Chen W, et al. Association between periprocedural myocardial injury and long-term all-cause mortality in patients undergoing transcatheter aortic valve replacement: a systematic review and meta-analysis. Association between periprocedural myocardial injury and long-term all-cause mortality in patients undergoing transcatheter aortic valve replacement: a systematic review and meta-analysis. 2022; 56:387-393. doi: 10.1080/14017431.2022.2139412

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36317197/
