PMID: 36310460
Title: [Research progress of unilateral biportal endoscopy technique in treatment of lumbar related diseases].

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: To review the application and research progress of unilateral biportal endoscopy (UBE) technique in the treatment of lumbar related diseases.
METHODS: The domestic and foreign literature on the application of UBE technique in the treatment of lumbar related diseases was extensively consulted, and the development history, clinical application, operation points and precautions, related complications and adverse reactions, advantages and disadvantages of the technique were reviewed.
RESULTS: As a minimally invasive technique developed in recent years, UBE technique is effective in the treatment of lumbar spinal stenosis caused by different causes, with satisfactory decompression effect, less damage, and good lumbar stability. UBE technique has significant advantages over open surgery and microscopy-assisted surgery in the treatment of lumbar disc herniation. In the treatment of lumbar spondylolisthesis, the postoperative trauma of UBE technique is less than that of conventional surgery, and the fusion rate is satisfactory. There are also complications such as spinal cord injury, spinal epidural hematoma, incomplete decompression or recurrence, nerve root irritation symptoms, and postoperative infection in the treatment of lumbar related diseases with UBE technique. Detailed preoperative planning is essential for patients with lumbar related diseases who are suitable for UBE surgery.
CONCLUSION: UBE technique is easy to operate, has a gentle learning curve, can use conventional instruments, and has definite effectiveness. It is suitable for a variety of lumbar related diseases, but there are some defects and deficiencies.

Citation: Zhang Y, et al. [Research progress of unilateral biportal endoscopy technique in treatment of lumbar related diseases]. [Research progress of unilateral biportal endoscopy technique in treatment of lumbar related diseases]. 2022; 36:1234-1240. doi: 10.7507/1002-1892.202205087

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36310460/
