PMID: 36312476
Title: Leclercia adecarboxylata infective endocarditis in a man with mitral stenosis: A case report and review of the literature.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Infective endocarditis (IE) is a rare disease with a high mortality rate. Leclercia adecarboxylata (L. adecarboxylata) is a movable Gram-negative bacillus of enterobacteriaceae, and it can rarely be a pathogen which often affects immunodeficient patients. There are about three cases of immunocompetent patients with monomicrobial L. adecarboxylata infection. There are only three reported cases of IE caused by L. adecarboxylata in the world. The mitral valve is often affected in IE, and the prognosis for IE with mitral valve lesions is often poor.
CASE SUMMARY: A 51-year-old man was found to have moderate to severe mitral stenosis on echocardiography. He came to our Cardiothoracic Surgery Department for surgical management. A diastolic murmur was heard on auscultation of the heart in the mitral region. On the second day of hospitalisation, he presented with slurred speech, reduced muscle strength in the left limb, and acute cerebral infarction on cranial computed tomography. Surgical treatment was decided to postpone. On the ninth day of admission, the patient developed a sudden high fever and shock and was transferred to the Cardiac Intensive Care Unit, where echocardiogram revealed an anterior mitral valve leaflet vegetation. After empirical anti-infective treatment with vancomycin (1g q12h), an emergency valve replacement was performed. Bacterial culture identified L. adecarboxylata. Anti-infective treatment with piperacillin-tazobactam (4.5g q8h) was added for 4 wk. Follow-up echocardiography showed normal bioprosthetic valve function after mitral valve replacement.
CONCLUSION: We report the first case of L. adecarboxylata IE in China, and clinicians should pay attention to this pathogen.

Citation: Tan R, et al. Leclercia adecarboxylata infective endocarditis in a man with mitral stenosis: A case report and review of the literature. Leclercia adecarboxylata infective endocarditis in a man with mitral stenosis: A case report and review of the literature. 2022; 10:10670-10680. doi: 10.12998/wjcc.v10.i29.10670

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36312476/
