PMID: 36312769
Title: Percutaneous repair of systemic atrioventricular valve regurgitation with the MitraClip-NT system in congenitally corrected transposition of great arteries.

Abstract: UNLABELLED: In a patient with congenitally corrected transposition of the great arteries, dilatation of the atrioventricular valve annulus related to worsening of systemic ventricular function, which worsened systemic atrioventricular valve (SAVV) functional regurgitation. In this article, we report a case of successful transcatheter treatment with MitraClip (Abbott Vascular, Santa Clara, CA, USA) in a 68-year-old female patient with congenitally corrected transposition of the great arteries and severe SAVV failure using imaging modalities. The patient had been hospitalized four times within 8 months, receiving optimal medical therapy for severe SAVV regurgitation and systemic ventricular failure. In this patient, the risk associated with surgery was considered extremely high owing to severe heart failure and liver cirrhosis. We positioned two clips appropriately, side by side, in between the anterior and septal leaflets, guided by computed tomography and three-dimensional echocardiography. The procedure resulted in optimal post-procedural reduction of regurgitation without stenosis, with a good clinical outcome noted at 2-year follow-up.
LEARNING OBJECTIVE: Since surgery for adult congenital heart disease is linked to high risk, we seek less invasive treatment for such patients. In patients with congenital heart disease and severe valve regurgitation, the use of MitraClip (Abbott Vascular, Santa Clara, CA, USA) could be a feasible option for select cases.

Citation: Nakajima Y, et al. Percutaneous repair of systemic atrioventricular valve regurgitation with the MitraClip-NT system in congenitally corrected transposition of great arteries. Percutaneous repair of systemic atrioventricular valve regurgitation with the MitraClip-NT system in congenitally corrected transposition of great arteries. 2022; 26:325-328. doi: 10.1016/j.jccase.2022.07.004

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36312769/
