PMID: 36318790
Title: Development and Validation of a Laparoscopy Simulation Model of Pyeloplasty for Pediatric Patients.

Abstract: Introduction: Given the extensive training required for laparoscopic pyeloplasty and the difficulties achieving this training, there is a need to recreate the activity in a controlled environment, but high-fidelity models are unavailable or expensive. Our objective was to develop a model of pyeloureteral junction stenosis, resembling the anatomical details and consistency of natural tissue, for a replicable, cheaper, and realistic simulation model of laparoscopic pyeloplasty in children. Materials and Methods: A three-dimensional, printed synthetic model was created from magnetic resonance urography. The model comprises a plastic kidney as the reusable structure and a silicone renal pelvis and ureter as the interchangeable structure. We evaluated realism and performance with surgeons and residents at different levels of training, comparing operative time and complications of the procedure. Results: Twenty-four participants were recruited; 41.7% had previous experience in laparoscopic pyeloplasty, with 5.5 years of experience in laparoscopic surgery (interquartile range [IQR] 2-7.75). There were no cases of stenosis, but leaks accounted for 41.7%. The procedure lasted 72 minutes (IQR 55-90), with significant differences according to the level of training (85 minutes for residents, 68 minutes for pediatric surgeons and urologists, and 40 minutes for laparoscopic surgeons; P: .011) and years of previous experience in laparoscopic surgery (P: .003). Conclusions: A high-fidelity, replicable, and low-cost pyeloureteral stenosis model was developed to simulate laparoscopic pyeloplasty in pediatric patients.

Citation: Correa Restrepo J, et al. Development and Validation of a Laparoscopy Simulation Model of Pyeloplasty for Pediatric Patients. Development and Validation of a Laparoscopy Simulation Model of Pyeloplasty for Pediatric Patients. 2023; 33:101-109. doi: 10.1089/lap.2021.0852

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36318790/
