PMID: 36313861
Title: Transcatheter arterial embolization for bleeding from the pancreaticoduodenal artery in patients with celiac artery stenosis: A technical report.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Transcatheter arterial embolization (TAE) is widely accepted as a treatment for bleeding from the pancreaticodoudenal artery (PDA) in patients with celiac artery stenosis. However, the technical aspect of TAE has not received much attention.
PURPOSE: To report the technical details and success rate of TAE for bleeding from the PDA in patients with CA stenosis.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: Between 2015 and 2021, nine TAE procedures were performed in eight patients (five women, three men; one woman underwent TAE twice). The cause of CA stenosis was compression by the median arcuate ligament in eight cases and CA dissection in one case. The cause of bleeding was flow-related aneurysm rupture in six cases. Pre-TAE CT showed a pseudoaneurysm in all cases. The technical details of TAE were recorded, and the success rate was evaluated.
RESULTS: The technical and clinical success rates were 100%. In six cases, both the CA and superior mesenteric artery (SMA) were cannulated using two parent catheters: a microcatheter advancing to the pseudoaneurysm from the CA (the CA approach) to achieve embolization and another catheter for angiography advancing from the SMA to map the vascular anatomy. In five cases, the CA approach was successfully performed after failed attempts of advancing a microcatheter from the SMA.
CONCLUSION: TAE is an effective treatment for bleeding from the PDA in patients with CA stenosis. Using two parent catheters, one for CA cannulation and microcatheter advancement and another for SMA cannulation and vascular mapping, may be a useful technique.

Citation: Onishi Y, et al. Transcatheter arterial embolization for bleeding from the pancreaticoduodenal artery in patients with celiac artery stenosis: A technical report. Transcatheter arterial embolization for bleeding from the pancreaticoduodenal artery in patients with celiac artery stenosis: A technical report. 2022; 11:20584601221135180. doi: 10.1177/20584601221135180

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36313861/
