PMID: 36312775
Title: Exercise echocardiography for a differential diagnosis in a patient with radiation-induced heart disease: A case report.

Abstract: UNLABELLED: Advances in radiation therapy (RT) have dramatically improved the survival rates of patients with cancer, but radiation-induced heart disease (RIHD) has become an emerging problem, which is complex and multifaceted.A 65-year-old man with a medical history of chemoradiotherapy for esophageal cancer, who had multiple admissions for acute heart failure (AHF), was readmitted to our hospital. Transthoracic echocardiography at rest revealed left ventricular diastolic dysfunction, moderate aortic stenosis with mild aortic regurgitation, and mild mitral regurgitation (MR). A diagnosis of RIHD was obtained, however, the main cause of the AHF was not clearly understood. Exercise echocardiography (ExE) revealed an exacerbation of the MR and exercise-induced pulmonary hypertension (EIPH), and the severe dynamic MR was considered to be the main cause of the AHF. A transcatheter edge-to-edge repair (TEER) with a MitraClip (Abbott Vascular, Menlo Park, CA, USA) was performed, and the post-procedural ExE showed the mitigation of the dynamic MR and EIPH. He had no further heart failure admissions for more than one year.Our case showed that ExE may be useful in the management of patients with RIHD, and a TEER with a MitraClip may be an effective treatment for RT-related dynamic MR.
LEARNING OBJECTIVE: Radiation therapy (RT) has improved the survival rates of patients with cancer, but which involves radiation-induced heart disease (RIHD). RIHD is complex and multifaceted, and RT-related valvular disease may be underestimated with transthoracic echocardiography at rest alone. Then exercise echocardiography may be useful in the management. It is important to perform an individualized approach including medical therapy, surgery, and percutaneous intervention by a heart team.

Citation: Miyamoto R, et al. Exercise echocardiography for a differential diagnosis in a patient with radiation-induced heart disease: A case report. Exercise echocardiography for a differential diagnosis in a patient with radiation-induced heart disease: A case report. 2022; 26:329-332. doi: 10.1016/j.jccase.2022.07.002

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36312775/
