PMID: 36314325
Title: Long-term changes in cerebral and ocular hemodynamics after carotid endarterectomy in symptomatic patients with unilateral carotid artery stenosis.

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: The aim of the current study was to describe the alternation pattern of cerebral and ocular blood flow velocities (BFVs) in symptomatic patients with unilateral carotid stenosis after carotid endarterectomy.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: 20 symptomatic patients underwent carotid endarterectomy for ≥ 50% unilateral carotid stenosis. Cerebral and ocular hemodynamics were evaluated by Transcranial Doppler (TCD) and Color Doppler imaging (CDI), respectively, first preoperatively, then during the following several days after carotid endarterectomy before discharge, and finally two to sixteen months later.
RESULTS: Statistically significant improvements in the BFVs were recorded in the ipsilateral anterior cerebral artery (ACA), middle cerebral artery (MCV) and short posterior ciliary artery (SPCA) during the following several days after carotid endarterectomy. Preoperative retrograde flows of the ipsilateral ophthalmic artery (OA) in two patients returned to anterograde direction immediately following carotid endarterectomy. At the follow-up of two to sixteen months, the BFVs of the ipsilateral ACA, MCA and SPCA tended to decline and were no longer statistically significant from the preoperative values.
CONCLUSIONS: Carotid endarterectomy significantly increased the flow velocities of ipsilateral cerebral anterior circulation and OA branching artery in patients with unilateral carotid stenosis early after surgery. At the long-term follow-up, the flow velocities in the ipsilateral hemisphere had the tendency to reduce and approach the preoperative level.

Citation: Yuan Z, et al. Long-term changes in cerebral and ocular hemodynamics after carotid endarterectomy in symptomatic patients with unilateral carotid artery stenosis. Long-term changes in cerebral and ocular hemodynamics after carotid endarterectomy in symptomatic patients with unilateral carotid artery stenosis. 2022; 26:7541-7549. doi: 10.26355/eurrev_202210_30025

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36314325/
