PMID: 36310190
Title: Absolute iodine concentration for dynamic perfusion imaging of the myocardium: improved detection of poststenotic ischaemic in a 3D-printed dynamic heart phantom.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: To investigate the detection capabilities of myocardial perfusion defects of dual-energy computed tomography (CT) technology using time-resolved iodine-based maps for functional assessment of coronary stenosis in a dynamic heart phantom.
METHODS: An anatomical heart model was designed using a three-dimensional (3D) printing technique. The lumen of the right coronary artery was reduced to 25% of the original areal cross-section. Scans were acquired with a 64-slice dual-layer CT equipment using a perfusion protocol with 36 time points. For distinguishing haemodynamically affected from unaffected myocardial regions, conventional and spectral mean transit time (MTT) parameter maps were compared. A dose reduction technique was simulated by using a subset of time points of the time attenuation curves (TACs).
RESULTS: The tracer kinetic modeling showed decreased errors on fit parameters from conventional to spectral TACs (42% reduction for A and 40% for λ). Three characteristic regions (highly, moderately, and not affected by the simulated stenosis) can be distinguished in all spectral perfusion maps. The best distinction was observed on MTT maps. An area under the curve (AUC) value of 1.00 for the voxel-wise differentiation of haemodynamically affected tissue was achieved versus a 0.89 AUC for conventional MTT maps. By temporal under-sampling, a dose reduction of approximately 78% from 19 to 4.3 mSv was achieved with a 0.96 AUC.
CONCLUSION: Dual-energy CT can provide time-resolved iodine density data, which enables the calculation of absolute quantitative perfusion maps with decreased fitting errors, improving the accuracy for poststenotic myocardial ischaemic detection in a 3D-printed heart phantom.

Citation: Hammel J, et al. Absolute iodine concentration for dynamic perfusion imaging of the myocardium: improved detection of poststenotic ischaemic in a 3D-printed dynamic heart phantom. Absolute iodine concentration for dynamic perfusion imaging of the myocardium: improved detection of poststenotic ischaemic in a 3D-printed dynamic heart phantom. 2022; 6:51. doi: 10.1186/s41747-022-00304-x

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36310190/
