PMID: 36317791
Title: Wound healing in endoscopic sinus surgery: Phase 1 clinical trial evaluating the role of Chitogel with adjuvants.

Abstract: OBJECTIVES: This study aimed to determine the safety and efficacy of Chitogel, with and without Deferiprone (Def) and Gallium Protoporphyrin (GaPP), as a promoter of wound healing to improve surgical outcomes after endoscopic sinus susgery.
DESIGN: A double-blinded, randomised control human clinical trial was conducted in patients undergoing ESS as a treatment for chronic rhinosinusitis. Participants underwent functional ESS or FESS with drill out as required and were randomised to receive test product Chitogel, Chitogel in combination with Def or Def-GaPP versus no packing (control).
SETTING: Ostial stenosis and persistent inflammation are the main reasons for revision endoscopic sinus surgery (ESS). Post-operative (PO) dressings can improve PO wound healing and patient outcomes after ESS.
PARTICIPANTS: Eighty two patients were included in this study with 79 patients completing the study with 40 undergoing full house FESS and 39 FESS plus frontal drillout.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Patients were followed up at 2, 6 and 12 weeks PO, and outcome scores such as SNOT-22, VAS and LKS, pre and post-surgery (12 weeks) were compared.
RESULTS: Seventy nine patients completed the study, there was a significant reduction in SNOT-22 score and improvement of VAS at 12 weeks in patients treated with Chitogel compared to control (p < .05). In those patients, the mean ostium area for the Chitogel and the Chitogel + Def + GaPP groups was higher across all three sinuses compared to the no-treatment control group, without statistical significance. Sphenoid sinus ostium was significantly more patent in patients treated with Chitogel compared to the control at the 12-week time point (p < .05).
CONCLUSION: Chitogel as a PO dressing after ESS results in the best patient-reported symptom scores and objective measurements. The combination of Def and GaPP to Chitogel though proving safe, had no effect on the ostium patency or mucosal healing.

Citation: Vediappan RS, et al. Wound healing in endoscopic sinus surgery: Phase 1 clinical trial evaluating the role of Chitogel with adjuvants. Wound healing in endoscopic sinus surgery: Phase 1 clinical trial evaluating the role of Chitogel with adjuvants. 2023; 48:158-166. doi: 10.1111/coa.13996

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36317791/
