PMID: 36316922
Title: Single balloon enteroscopy-guided endoscopic retrograde pancreatography for the treatment of a symptomatic pancreatic pseudocyst complicated by pancreaticojejunostomy stricture: A case report.

Abstract: RATIONALE: Endoscopic treatment of a pancreatic pseudocyst complicated by pancreaticojejunostomy (PJ) stricture is challenging.
PATIENT CONCERNS: A 76-year-old woman presented with worsening abdominal pain and dyspepsia. She had been receiving adjuvant chemotherapy (capecitabine and cisplatin) for 4 months after pylorus-preserving pancreaticoduodenectomy (PPPD) for the treatment of extrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma.
DIAGNOSES: Laboratory findings included elevated serum amylase (145 U/L) and lipase (437 U/L) levels. Abdominal computed tomography (CT) showed a pancreatic pseudocyst of approximately 3 cm in size and pancreatic duct dilatation in the remnant pancreas. According to the Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors, cholangiocarcinoma is a stable disease.
INTERVENTIONS AND OUTCOMES: Endoscopic drainage of the pancreatic pseudocyst was planned. Single-balloon enteroscopy (SBE)-guided endoscopic retrograde pancreatography (ERP) with endoscopic ultrasonography (EUS) using a mini probe demonstrated a membranous PJ stricture and a pancreatic pseudocyst. Endoscopic pseudocyst drainage using a 7-Fr plastic stent was successfully performed after needle-knife incision of the PJ stricture. Follow-up abdominal CT after 3 weeks showed complete resolution of the pseudocyst. Chemotherapy was resumed.
LESSONS: SBE-guided ERP with EUS using a mini probe may be an effective and safe treatment in a patient with a pancreatic pseudocyst complicated by membranous PJ stricture after PPPD.

Citation: Cho E, et al. Single balloon enteroscopy-guided endoscopic retrograde pancreatography for the treatment of a symptomatic pancreatic pseudocyst complicated by pancreaticojejunostomy stricture: A case report. Single balloon enteroscopy-guided endoscopic retrograde pancreatography for the treatment of a symptomatic pancreatic pseudocyst complicated by pancreaticojejunostomy stricture: A case report. 2022; 101:e31293. doi: 10.1097/MD.0000000000031293

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36316922/
