PMID: 36327537
Title: Kinematics and paraspinal muscle activation patterns during walking differ between patients with lumbar spinal stenosis and controls.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: The narrowing of the spinal canal due to degenerative processes may lead to symptomatic lumbar spinal stenosis (sLSS) and impairments in the patients' gait. Changes in lower extremity joint kinematics and trunk flexion angles have been reported, yet less is known about muscle activation patterns of paraspinal and gluteal muscles in patients with sLSS compared to healthy participants.
RESEARCH QUESTION: Do muscle activation patterns together with sagittal joint kinematics differ between patients with sLSS and healthy controls and do these differences-quantified using gait scores-correlate with clinical scores?
METHODS: In 20 patients with sLSS scheduled for surgery and 19 healthy participants, gait was assessed using seven inertial sensors and muscle activation of gluteus medius, erector spinae and multifidus using wireless surface electromyography (EMG). Differences in joint kinematics and EMG patterns were assessed using statistical parametric mapping with non-parametric independent sample t tests (P < 0.05). Gait scores that describe the overall deviation in joint angles (mGPS) and muscle activation patterns (EMG-Profile Score) were calculated as root mean square distances between patients and healthy participants and their associations with clinical scores (pain, Oswestry Disability Score (ODI)) were analyzed using Spearman's correlation coefficients rho (P < 0.05).
RESULTS: Patients had larger mGPS (+1.9°) and EMG-Profile Scores (+50%) and walked on average slower (-0.26 m/s) than controls. EMG patterns revealed higher activation of multifidus, erector spinae and gluteus medius during midstance in patients compared to controls. Clinical scores (pain, ODI) did not correlate with mGPS or EMG-Profile Scores within patients.
SIGNIFICANCE: Observed differences in gait and muscle activation patterns and in the summary scores of gait and EMG deviations between patients with sLSS and healthy controls may represent additional functional outcomes reflecting the functional status of patients that can be measured using wearable sensors and hence is suitable for application in clinical practice.

Citation: Nüesch C, et al. Kinematics and paraspinal muscle activation patterns during walking differ between patients with lumbar spinal stenosis and controls. Kinematics and paraspinal muscle activation patterns during walking differ between patients with lumbar spinal stenosis and controls. 2023; 99:44-50. doi: 10.1016/j.gaitpost.2022.10.017

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36327537/
