PMID: 36324943
Title: Carotid artery stenosis concomitant with severe aortic stenosis treated by combination of staged angioplasty and transcatheter aortic valve implantation: A case report.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: When severe aortic stenosis (AS) is concomitant with carotid stenosis, carotid artery stenting (CAS) will become a high-risk procedure because baroreceptor reflex-induced bradycardia and hypotension may cause irreversible circulatory collapse. When carotid stenosis-related misery perfusion is present, the risk of cerebral hyperperfusion syndrome increases after carotid revascularization. We report a case of severe carotid disease concomitant with severe AS successfully treated by a combination of staged angioplasty (SAP) and transcatheter aortic valve implantation (TAVI).
CASE DESCRIPTION: An 86-year-old man presented with transient deterioration of mental status and sluggish responsiveness continuous from the previous day. Magnetic resonance imaging of the brain revealed a right putaminal infarction, occlusion of the right internal carotid artery (ICA), and severe stenosis of the left ICA. Severe AS was diagnosed and single-photon emission computed tomography showed misery perfusion at the bilateral ICA territories. We performed a staged treatment consisting of SAP for the left carotid stenosis and TAVI. A first-stage carotid angioplasty was performed, followed by TAVI 2 weeks later and second-stage CAS 1 week after that. There were no apparent periprocedural complications throughout the clinical course.
CONCLUSION: Combining SAP and TAVI may be an effective treatment option for severe carotid stenosis with misery perfusion concomitant with severe AS.

Citation: Shintoku R, et al. Carotid artery stenosis concomitant with severe aortic stenosis treated by combination of staged angioplasty and transcatheter aortic valve implantation: A case report. Carotid artery stenosis concomitant with severe aortic stenosis treated by combination of staged angioplasty and transcatheter aortic valve implantation: A case report. 2022; 13:469. doi: 10.25259/SNI_560_2022

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36324943/
