PMID: 36324977
Title: Trigeminal neuralgia due to intracranial venous reflux following central venous disease in a patient on hemodialysis: A case report.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: A wide variety of conditions can cause trigeminal neuralgia (TN).
CASE DESCRIPTION: We describe a rare case of a 77-year-old female patient on hemodialysis presenting with severe TN on the right side of the face for several weeks. She underwent multiple revisions using catheter for brachiocephalic venous stenosis over 6 years after a therapeutic arteriovenous fistula (AVF) was created in the left forearm. Her facial pain was consistent with Type 1 TN and remained intractable even after carbamazepine treatment. The initial magnetic resonance imaging did not demonstrate arterial compression on the right trigeminal nerve; instead, the vein adjacent to the right trigeminal nerve showed a hyperintense signal. In addition, the contralateral cortical veins and transverse sigmoid sinus were dilated. Angiography from the left brachial artery revealed intracranial venous reflux (IVR) through the left jugular vein due to an occluded brachiocephalic vein. Her pain was relieved immediately after her left upper arm was compressed with a sphygmomanometer to decrease the shunt. Surgical elimination of the AVF on the left forearm resulted in complete resolution of TN. Postoperative radiological examination revealed the resolution of IVR, and her TN has not recurred by her 6-month follow-up.
CONCLUSION: The radiological diagnosis of IVR might be complicated because the true causative lesion for focal neurological symptoms might be remotely located. IVR following central venous disease should be a differential when patients on hemodialysis present neurological symptoms.

Citation: Hanakita S, et al. Trigeminal neuralgia due to intracranial venous reflux following central venous disease in a patient on hemodialysis: A case report. Trigeminal neuralgia due to intracranial venous reflux following central venous disease in a patient on hemodialysis: A case report. 2022; 13:419. doi: 10.25259/SNI_555_2022

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36324977/
