PMID: 36331816
Title: Normative values of the aortic valve area and Doppler measurements using two-dimensional transthoracic echocardiography: results from the Multicentre World Alliance of Societies of Echocardiography Study.

Abstract: AIMS: Aortic valve area (AVA) used for echocardiographic assessment of aortic stenosis (AS) has been traditionally interpreted independently of sex, age and race. As differences in normal values might impact clinical decision-making, we aimed to establish sex-, age- and race-specific normative values for AVA and Doppler parameters using data from the World Alliance Societies of Echocardiography (WASE) Study.
METHODS AND RESULTS: Two-dimensional transthoracic echocardiographic studies were obtained from 1903 healthy adult subjects (48% women). Measurements of the left ventricular outflow tract (LVOT) diameter and Doppler parameters, including AV and LVOT velocity time integrals (VTIs), AV mean pressure gradient, peak velocity, were obtained according to ASE/EACVI guidelines. AVA was calculated using the continuity equation. Compared with men, women had smaller LVOT diameters and AVA values, and higher AV peak velocities and mean gradients (all P < 0.05). LVOT and AV VTI were significantly higher in women (P < 0.05), and both parameters increased with age in both sexes. AVA differences persisted after indexing to body surface area. According to the current diagnostic criteria, 13.5% of women would have been considered to have mild AS and 1.4% moderate AS. LVOT diameter and AVA were lower in older subjects, both men and women, and were lower in Asians, compared with whites and blacks.
CONCLUSION: WASE data provide clinically relevant information about significant differences in normal AVA and Doppler parameters according to sex, age, and race. The implementation of this information into clinical practice should involve development of specific normative values for each ethnic group using standardized methodology.

Citation: Cotella JI, et al. Normative values of the aortic valve area and Doppler measurements using two-dimensional transthoracic echocardiography: results from the Multicentre World Alliance of Societies of Echocardiography Study. Normative values of the aortic valve area and Doppler measurements using two-dimensional transthoracic echocardiography: results from the Multicentre World Alliance of Societies of Echocardiography Study. 2023; 24:415-423. doi: 10.1093/ehjci/jeac220

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36331816/
