PMID: 36337792
Title: Does Advanced Imaging Aid in the Preoperative Evaluation of Patients With Moyamoya Disease?

Abstract: Background Moyamoya disease is characterized by progressive nonatherosclerotic stenosis and eventual occlusion of the supraclinoid cerebral arteries with the associated development of abnormal collateral vessels. Treatment of moyamoya disease revolves around restoring cerebral blood flow (CBF) distal to the steno-occlusive disease. Numerous modalities can be used to assess hemodynamic parameters. We sought to determine the impact of preoperative imaging on surgical decision-making. Methods A retrospective review was performed of all patients seen with the diagnosis of moyamoya. Patients were grouped on presentation based on CT/MRI findings of infarction, hemorrhage, or normal. Patients who did not have all of the preoperative tests were excluded. Preoperative radiological results were dichotomized as either normal or abnormal. Results During a five-year period, 34 patients with moyamoya met the inclusion criteria. All patients had an abnormal magnetic resonance angiography (MRA) Non-invasive Optimal Vessel Analysis (NOVA; VasSol, Inc, River Forest, IL). Three patients had normal initial MRI. All symptomatic patients had abnormal preoperative workup and underwent revascularization, as all were found to have abnormal single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT). The only occasion where the decision for surgery or type of surgery was influenced by imaging findings was in patients with nonclassical or minimal symptoms. Conclusion Although hemodynamic imaging studies can aid in establishing a preoperative baseline of CBF and cerebral vascular reserve (CVR) for follow-up studies, the true implication of these tests in the preoperative evaluation of clearly symptomatic moyamoya patients is debatable. In asymptomatic/mildly symptomatic patients, hemodynamic studies are necessary to determine the need for treatment. For symptomatic patients, surgery can be performed without an exhaustive and costly preoperative hemodynamic evaluation.

Citation: White T, et al. Does Advanced Imaging Aid in the Preoperative Evaluation of Patients With Moyamoya Disease?. Does Advanced Imaging Aid in the Preoperative Evaluation of Patients With Moyamoya Disease?. 2022; 14:e29816. doi: 10.7759/cureus.29816

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36337792/
