PMID: 36335852
Title: A service evaluation of the management of patients with suspected cauda equina syndrome from an outpatient physiotherapy service in the United Kingdom.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: The expanding scope of physiotherapists worldwide has come with an increased responsibility to identify serious pathologies such as fracture, infection, tumour and cauda equina syndrome (CES). Guidelines recommend a low threshold for emergency MRI to avoid the potentially devastating consequences of CES, but a balanced approach is required to prevent excessive strain on emergency resources.
AIM: To evaluate the management of patients presenting to an outpatient physiotherapy service with suspected cauda equina syndrome.
DESIGN: Service evaluation with an embedded case series of patients with radiological CES.
METHOD: The records of patients who were identified by their outpatient physiotherapists as having suspected CES (n-231) over a 27-month period were included. Data was extracted from patients' medical records by a team of Advanced Clinical Practitioners (ACPs). The lead author further analysed the records of patients with clinical and radiological CES, in order to present the embedded case series.
RESULTS: In 79% of cases, it was decided that emergency referral was not required. The remaining 21% of patients were referred to the emergency department and 49% of these had an emergency MRI. In the case series of seven patients with cauda equina compression on MRI, four patients had a disc bulge and underwent emergency surgery. One patient had non-emergency surgery for a disc bulge combined with anterolisthesis and scoliosis. Two patients had stenosis and decided against surgical intervention.
CONCLUSIONS: Findings from this service evaluation suggest support for the use of safety netting and an effective communication chain to facilitate effective management of patients with suspected CES.

Citation: Paling C, et al. A service evaluation of the management of patients with suspected cauda equina syndrome from an outpatient physiotherapy service in the United Kingdom. A service evaluation of the management of patients with suspected cauda equina syndrome from an outpatient physiotherapy service in the United Kingdom. 2022; 62:102673. doi: 10.1016/j.msksp.2022.102673

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36335852/
