PMID: 36344231
Title: [Clinical application and progress of airway stent in subglottic stenosis].

Abstract: Laryngotracheal stenosis is caused by various reasons of laryngotracheal cartilage stent malformation, collapse or defect, laryngotracheal mucosa scar formation or submucosal tissue hyperplasia, eventually resulting in dyspnea. Subglottic stenosis refers to the airway stenosis from subglottic to the lower margin of the cricoid cartilage, which is a special type of laryngotracheal stenosis. The most common cause is iatrogenic injury, such as prolonged tracheal intubation and tracheotomy. Currently, the main treatments include surgical treatment, tracheostomy, endoscope-guided stent implantation and drug therapy. As for the patients who have dyspnea not suitable for surgery or in urgent need of preoperative transitional treatment, stent implantation guided by respiratory endoscopy has become an important treatment. In this paper, we reviewed 51 literatures on stent implantation of subglottic stenosis since 1994 retrieved from PubMed, CBM, CNIT, Wan-fang and VIP databases, focusing on the comparison of the efficacy, complications and prognosis of metal stent, hourglass-shaped DUMON stent, straight-type DUMON stent and Montgomery T tube and investigated the clinical application of endoscope-guided stent implantation in subglottic airway stenosis. Literature studies have shown that compared with DUMON silicone stents and metal stents, T tube has more significant advantages, higher treatment success rate and lower complication rate. Therefore, Montgomery T tube is more suitable for long-term treatment of patients with subglottic stenosis. With the improvement and update of new technology and materials, the vigorous development of new airway stents also provides a new stent treatment mode with better histocompatibility, fewer complications and customized options for the patients with subglottic stenosis.

Citation: Xing YN, et al. [Clinical application and progress of airway stent in subglottic stenosis]. [Clinical application and progress of airway stent in subglottic stenosis]. 2022; 45:1140-1146. doi: 10.3760/cma.j.cn112147-20220409-00298

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36344231/
