PMID: 36346506
Title: Dislocation of a middle lobe torsion-preventing bridging structure with an absorptive sheet and fibrin glue: a case report.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Middle lobe torsion is a rare complication of right upper lobectomy. Middle lobe torsion can be critical; thus, various preventive measures are used.
CASE PRESENTATION: A 77-year-old man underwent thoracoscopic right upper lobectomy with partial middle resection and S6 segmentectomy for right upper lobe lung cancer located at the confluence of the three lobes and lower lobe lung cancer. Inversion of the middle lobe was observed during lung expansion before chest closure. A bridging structure with an absorptive sheet and fibrin glue was placed in the basal section of the middle lobe under lung expansion to prevent torsion. On postoperative day 1, the patient was tachycardic and was found to have decreased lung field permeability. The patient underwent emergency surgery for suspected middle lobe torsion. Dislocation of the bridging structure between the basal segments of the middle lobe was confirmed, and the middle lobe was deviated cephalad. In addition, pulmonary congestion in S4 due to pressure stenosis of V4 caused by the deviation of the middle lobe was observed, and middle lobe resection was performed. The postoperative course was uneventful.
CONCLUSIONS: This case suggested that the reinforcement method with an absorptive sheet and fibrin glue lacked sufficient strength to prevent middle lobe torsion. Stronger fixation should be considered if the middle lobe rotation is thought to be sufficiently strong when the lung is reinflated before chest closure.

Citation: Matsumiya H, et al. Dislocation of a middle lobe torsion-preventing bridging structure with an absorptive sheet and fibrin glue: a case report. Dislocation of a middle lobe torsion-preventing bridging structure with an absorptive sheet and fibrin glue: a case report. 2022; 8:207. doi: 10.1186/s40792-022-01562-y

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36346506/
