PMID: 36355524
Title: Magnetic Nanoparticles for Drug Delivery through Tapered Stenosed Artery with Blood Based Non-Newtonian Fluid.

Abstract: Nanoparticles play an essential role in biomedical applications. A most promising area in nanomedicine is drug targeting which is done with the aid of magnetized nanoparticles. In this study, the hemodynamics of hybrid nanofluid flow with gold and copper nanoparticles suspended in it is investigated. This research primarily focuses on magnetic drug delivery which is propagated through a tapered stenosed artery under three situations, including converging, diverging, and non-tapering arteries. To explore the rheological characteristics of blood, a Sutterby fluid, which is a non-Newtonian fluid, is postulated. The energy equation also incorporates the effects of the magnetic field and joule heating, as well as the viscous dissipation function. Lubrication theory provides a mathematical framework for model formulation. The hypothesized modeling is simplified to a set of nonlinear differential equations that are then solved using a perturbation method up to the second order of approximation. Graphs are used to describe the outcomes of different evolving parameters. The Sutterby fluid parameter opposes the flow negligibly, whereas the Hartmann number and thermal Grashof number strengthen the flow field. Copper nanoparticles (in the absence of gold nanoparticles) are observed to deplete the thermal profile substantially more than gold nanoparticles. Nevertheless, the thermal profile is enhanced by the presence of both nanoparticles (hybrid nanofluids). For greater values of the Sutterby fluid parameter, the wall shear stress has been observed to rise considerably, whereas the inverse is true for the Hartmann number and the thermal Grashof number. The present results have been improved to give significant information for biomedical scientists who are striving to study blood flow in stenosis situations, as well as for those who will find the knowledge valuable in the treatment of different diseases.

Citation: Bhatti MM, et al. Magnetic Nanoparticles for Drug Delivery through Tapered Stenosed Artery with Blood Based Non-Newtonian Fluid. Magnetic Nanoparticles for Drug Delivery through Tapered Stenosed Artery with Blood Based Non-Newtonian Fluid. 2022; 15:(unknown pages). doi: 10.3390/ph15111352

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36355524/
