PMID: 36355797
Title: Circulatory C-type natriuretic peptide reduces mucopolysaccharidosis-associated craniofacial hypoplasia in vivo.

Abstract: Skeletal alterations in the head and neck region, such as midfacial hypoplasia, foramen magnum stenosis and spinal canal stenosis, are commonly observed in patients with mucopolysaccharidosis (MPS). However, enzyme replacement therapy (ERT), one of the major treatment approaches for MPS, shows limited efficacy for skeletal conditions. In this study, we analysed the craniofacial morphology of mice with MPS type VII, and investigated the underlying mechanisms promoting jaw deformities in these animals. Furthermore, we investigated the effects of C-type natriuretic peptide (CNP), a potent endochondral ossification promoter, on growth impairment of the craniofacial region in MPS VII mice when administered alone or in combination with ERT. MPS VII mice exhibited midfacial hypoplasia caused by impaired endochondral ossification, and histological analysis revealed increased number of swelling cells in the resting zone of the spheno-occipital synchondrosis (SOS), an important growth centre for craniomaxillofacial skeletogenesis. We crossed MPS VII mice with transgenic mice in which CNP was expressed in the liver under the control of the human serum amyloid-P component promoter, resulting in elevated levels of circulatory CNP. The maxillofacial morphological abnormalities associated with MPS VII were ameliorated by CNP expression, and further prevented by a combination of CNP and ERT. Histological analysis showed that ERT decreased the swelling cell number, and CNP treatment increased the width of the proliferative and hypertrophic zones of the SOS. Furthermore, the foramen magnum and spinal stenoses observed in MPS VII mice were significantly alleviated by CNP and ERT combination. These results demonstrate the therapeutic potential of CNP, which can be used to enhance ERT outcome for MPS VII-associated head and neck abnormalities.

Citation: Kashiwagi M, et al. Circulatory C-type natriuretic peptide reduces mucopolysaccharidosis-associated craniofacial hypoplasia in vivo. Circulatory C-type natriuretic peptide reduces mucopolysaccharidosis-associated craniofacial hypoplasia in vivo. 2022; 17:e0277140. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0277140

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36355797/
