PMID: 36352566
Title: Modified Eversion Carotid Endarterectomy: A Novel Surgical Technique for Carotid Artery Stenosis Treatment.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Carotid endarterectomy (CEA) has been the standard therapy for carotid artery stenosis (CAS). Modified eversion carotid endarterectomy (mECEA) was recently introduced to treat CAS. However, the short-term safety and long-term efficacy of mECEA are still controversial among studies. This systematic review aims to summarize the current literatures about safety and efficacy of mECEA in treating CAS.
METHODS: A systematic review of mECEA was conducted in the main bibliographic databases in accordance with the Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic Reviews and Meta-analyses (PRISMA) statement. Clinical studies on the safety and efficacy of mECEA in treating CAS with clinical results of transient ischemic attack (TIA), stroke, death, and restenosis were included.
RESULTS: The initial search and screening found 15 references from the main databases, and 7 studies were finally included after full-text article assessment, which consisted of 3 single-arm studies and 4 comparative studies. The risks of postoperative complications including TIA, stroke, myocardial infarction (MI), and death ranged from 1.1% to 2%, 0% to 2.5%, 0% to 4.4%, and 0% to 2.32%, respectively. The mECEA was significantly related to lower risk of carotid artery occlusion, incision numbness, and shorter lengths of stay in hospital and average scar when separately compared with conventional CEA (cCEA), CEA with patch closure (pCEA), and eversion CEA (eCEA).
CONCLUSIONS: The mECEA is a promising surgical option for CAS with acceptable clinical outcomes. In order to prove its safety and efficacy, future practices need to be conducted by more medical workers in more large-scale trials.

Citation: Zhang X, et al. Modified Eversion Carotid Endarterectomy: A Novel Surgical Technique for Carotid Artery Stenosis Treatment. Modified Eversion Carotid Endarterectomy: A Novel Surgical Technique for Carotid Artery Stenosis Treatment. 2022; 70:1787-1792. doi: 10.4103/0028-3886.359282

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36352566/
