PMID: 36373176
Title: Rutin ameliorates perfluorooctanoic acid-induced testicular injury in mice by reducing oxidative stress and improving lipid metabolism.

Abstract: This study investigated the protective effect of rutin on reproductive and blood-testis barrier (BTB) damage induced by perfluorooctanoic acid (PFOA) exposure. In this study, male ICR mice were randomly divided into three groups, Ctrl group (ddH<sub>2</sub>O, 5 mL/kg), PFOA group (PFOA, 20 mg/kg/d, 5 mL/kg), PFOA + rutin group (PFOA, 20 mg/kg/d, 5 mL/kg; rutin, 20 mg/kg/d, 5 mL/kg). Mice were exposed to PFOA for 28 days by gavage once daily in the presence or absence of rutin. Histopathological observations demonstrated that rutin treatment during PFOA exposure can reduce structural damage to testis and epididymis such as atrophy of spermatogenic epithelium and stenosis of epididymal lumen, while increase in the number and layers of spermatogenic cells. Biochemical detection demonstrated that rutin can reduce 8-hydroxy-2'-desoxyguanosine (8-OHdG) concentration in the serum and testis tissues. Rutin can also ameliorate glutathione peroxidase (GSH-Px) and superoxide dismutase (SOD) content, and reduce malondialdehyde (MDA) and total cholesterol (TC) content in testis tissues. Biotin tracking immunofluorescence and transmission electron microscopy demonstrated that rutin can ameliorate BTB structural damage during PFOA exposure. Rutin ameliorated the stress expression of tight junction proteins occludin and claudin-11. In conclusion, our findings suggested that rutin has a degree of protection in reproductive and BTB damage, which could put forward a new perspective on the application of rutin to prevent reproductive damage.

Citation: Ma X, et al. Rutin ameliorates perfluorooctanoic acid-induced testicular injury in mice by reducing oxidative stress and improving lipid metabolism. Rutin ameliorates perfluorooctanoic acid-induced testicular injury in mice by reducing oxidative stress and improving lipid metabolism. 2023; 46:1223-1234. doi: 10.1080/01480545.2022.2145483

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36373176/
