PMID: 36382214
Title: Significance of Calcifications in Projection of Carotid Arteries on Orthopantomography for Detection of Carotid Artery Stenosis.

Abstract: INTRODUCTION: Orthopantomography is amongst the most commonly used dental imaging modalities. Calcifications in the projection of carotids on orthopantomographs are found in 3-15% of general population and commonly represent calcified atherosclerotic plaques. Carotid atherosclerotic changes are one of the most frequent causes of stroke, which is the second most common cause of death and the leading cause of disability globally. Our aim was to determine the relationship between calcifications in the projection of carotids on orthopantomographs, carotid stenosis and stroke, and the correlation between stroke risk factors, calcifications on orthopantomographs and the degree of carotid stenosis.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Doppler ultrasound and brain MRI were performed in 41 patients with unilateral or bilateral calcifications on orthopantomographs. Anamnestic data relevant to stroke risk were gathered.
RESULTS: Significant stenosis >50% was found in almost 15% of our patients. There was a significant correlation between hypertension and carotid calcifications. No statistically significant correlation between calcifications and significant stenosis was found. Patients with previous stroke were approximiately 5 years older than those without stroke.
CONCLUSION: Preliminary results show no statistically significant correlation between calcifications on orthopantomography and significant carotid stenosis, but further investigation is needed.

Citation: Smoljan-Basuga M, et al. Significance of Calcifications in Projection of Carotid Arteries on Orthopantomography for Detection of Carotid Artery Stenosis. Significance of Calcifications in Projection of Carotid Arteries on Orthopantomography for Detection of Carotid Artery Stenosis. 2022; 56:257-266. doi: 10.15644/asc56/3/4

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36382214/
