PMID: 36387704
Title: Managing subglottic stenosis with Montgomery tube - Our experience.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: The purpose of this retrospective study is to evaluate the outcome of Montgomery T-tube insertion in our institution (AIIMS, Raipur). This study also throws light on its indications and complications.
METHODS: This is a retrospective study of 10 patients who presented with laryngotracheal stenosis and managed by Laryngofissure with Montgomery Tube insertion in the Department of Otorhinolaryngology, Head and Neck Surgery atAll India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) Raipur, India, during the period of January 2018- JUNE 2020.
RESULTS: The most common cause of laryngotracheal stenosis was prolonged intubation as seen in 80% patients.Majority of patients (40%) in this study were in the 3rd decade. In this study all the patients underwent tracheostomy prior to treatment for stenosis. The most common complication seen was surgical emphysema in post-operative period seen in 6 patients (60%) followed by crusting in 4 patients (40%), secondary granulation tissue formation in 4 patients (40%). Montgomery tube reinsertion had to be done in 2 patients (20%).
CONCLUSIONS: Laryngotracheal stenosis (LTS) has always been and will remain a challenge to the otolaryngologistsand a multidisciplinary approach is required to tackle it.A multitude of surgeries have been described for the management of Laryngotracheal stenosis ranging from Endoscopic dilatation and cricotracheal resection with anterior and posterior grafting and anastomosis but many of them require specialized training and expertise,prolonged ICU care and have morbidity and mortality. 'Laryngofissure and Montgomery Tube stenting provides a safe and easy treatment option which can be done at most centres provided appropriate case selection has been done.

Citation: Mehta R, et al. Managing subglottic stenosis with Montgomery tube - Our experience. Managing subglottic stenosis with Montgomery tube - Our experience. 2022; 11:4094-4098. doi: 10.4103/jfmpc.jfmpc_2533_20

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36387704/
