PMID: 36395739
Title: Diminished arachidonate 5-lipoxygenase perturbs phase separation and transcriptional response of Runx2 to reverse pathological ventricular remodeling.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Arachidonate 5-lipoxygenase (Alox5) belongs to a class of nonheme iron-containing dioxygenases involved in the catalysis of leukotriene biosynthesis. However, the effects of Alox5 itself on pathological cardiac remodeling and heart failure remain elusive.
METHODS: The role of Alox5 in pathological cardiac remodeling was investigated by Alox5 genetic depletion, AAV9-mediated overexpression in cardiomyocytes, and a bone marrow (BM) transplantation approach. Neonatal rat cardiomyocytes were used to explore the effects of Alox5 in vitro. Molecular and signaling pathways were revealed by CUT &Tag, IP-MS, RNA sequencing and bioinformatic analyses.
FINDINGS: Untargeted metabolomics showed that serum 5-HETE (a primary product of Alox5) levels were little changed in patients with cardiac hypertrophy, while Alox5 expression was significantly upregulated in murine hypertensive cardiac samples and human cardiac samples of hypertrophy, which prompted us to test whether high Alox5 levels under hypertensive stimuli were directly associated with pathologic myocardium in an enzymatic activity-independent manner. Herein, we revealed that Alox5 deficiency significantly ameliorated transverse aortic constriction (TAC)-induced hypertrophy. Cardiomyocyte-specific Alox5 depletion attenuated hypertensive ventricular remodeling. Conversely, cardiac-specifical Alox5 overexpression showed a pro-hypertrophic cardiac phenotype. Ablation of Alox5 in bone marrow-derived cells did not affect pathological cardiac remodeling and heart failure. Mechanically, Runx2 was identified as a target of Alox5. In this regard, Alox5 PEST domain could directly bind to Runx2 PTS domain, promoting nuclear localization of Runx2 in an enzymatic activity-independent manner, simultaneously contributed to liquid-liquid phase separation (LLPS) of Runx2 at specific domain in the nucleus and increased transcription of EGFR in cardiomyocytes. Runx2 depletion alleviated hypertrophy in Ang II-pretreated Alox5-overexpressing cardiomyocytes.
INTERPRETATION: Overall, our study demonstrated that targeting Alox5 exerted a protective effect against cardiac remodeling and heart failure under hypertensive stimuli by disturbing LLPS of Runx2 and substantial reduction of EGFR transcription activation in cardiomyocytes. Our findings suggest that negative modulation of Alox5-Runx2 may provide a therapeutic approach against pathological cardiac remodeling and heart failure.
FUNDING: National Natural Science Foundation of China.

Citation: Xie S, et al. Diminished arachidonate 5-lipoxygenase perturbs phase separation and transcriptional response of Runx2 to reverse pathological ventricular remodeling. Diminished arachidonate 5-lipoxygenase perturbs phase separation and transcriptional response of Runx2 to reverse pathological ventricular remodeling. 2022; 86:104359. doi: 10.1016/j.ebiom.2022.104359

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36395739/
