PMID: 36398950
Title: [Hybrid interventions for tandem occlusions in acute phase of ischemic stroke].

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the effectiveness of hybrid interventions, i.e. endovascular mechanical thrombectomy from intracranial arteries combined with open thrombectomy or carotid endarterectomy from extracranial internal carotid artery.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: We analyzed 16 patients who underwent mechanical thrombectomy/thrombaspiration combined with open surgery between January 2014 and March 2021. All patients had occlusion of extracranial and intracranial segments internal carotid artery or initial segments of the middle cerebral artery. Baseline data, diagnostic algorithm, timing and results of treatment were analyzed. Study endpoints were technical success of revascularization, clinically significant hemorrhagic transformation, NIHSS and modified Rankin score of neurological impairment, as well as outcome of disease within 90 days.
RESULTS: We restored patency of ICA and intracranial arteries in 13 out of 16 patients. In 9 patients, we obtained a positive effect with significant regression of neurological symptoms (mRS &lt;2). In 3 patients, severe neurological deficit persisted throughout the entire follow-up period. Four patients died. Thus, effectiveness of technique was 56.2% (t=3), mortality rate was 25% (t=2.3). There was a relationship between the timing of interventions and outcomes of disease. Indeed, all dead and most of disabled patients underwent surgery later than 6 hours from the onset of disease.
CONCLUSION: Hybrid interventions for tandem occlusions of carotid arteries can significantly increase efficiency and accelerate recanalization of great extracranial vessels in patients with tandem lesions in acute phase of ischemic stroke. Moreover, hybrid interventions significantly reduce the cost of reperfusion procedure. In case of severe atherosclerotic stenosis, simultaneous open endarterectomy from common and internal carotid arteries has a significant advantage over stenting due to no need for antithrombotic therapy.

Citation: Perekhodov SN, et al. [Hybrid interventions for tandem occlusions in acute phase of ischemic stroke]. [Hybrid interventions for tandem occlusions in acute phase of ischemic stroke]. 2022; (unknown volume):13-22. doi: 10.17116/hirurgia202211113

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36398950/
