PMID: 36408609
Title: Standard Balloon Angioplasty Versus Serranator Serration Balloon Angioplasty for the Treatment of Below-the-Knee Artery Occlusive Disease: A Single-Center Subanalysis From the PRELUDE-BTK Prospective Study.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Endovascular interventions in infrapopliteal occlusive artery disease are becoming more complex, and this frequently tests the standard method of treatment, plain old balloon angioplasty (POBA). The potential that serration angioplasty could produce a more acceptable tibial artery lumen was assessed in this study.
AIM: The aim of this single-center subgroup analysis was to compare acute angiographic results after endovascular treatment using the Serranator serration balloon catheter in patients participating in the PRELUDE-BTK trial with POBA of the infrapopliteal arteries. A secondary objective was to assess post-treatment hemodynamic improvements.
METHODS: Our center enrolled 15 subjects and treated 17 lesions within the multicenter prospective core laboratory-adjudicated PRELUDE-BTK study. A 25 lesions analyzed separately were treated with POBA and then compared with the Serranator subset. In both cohorts, lesions were treated with either plain angioplasty or Serranator as a stand-alone therapy; subsequent methods, such as drug elution technologies, were not used. Acute angiographic results were analyzed by the SynvaCor angiographic core laboratory. To assess volumetric flow rates, data were analyzed with a fluid flow simulation software and compared against Poiseuille's Law.
RESULTS: Final residual stenosis was 17.2%±8.2% in the Serranator group versus 33.7%±15.7% in the POBA group. The mean lumen diameter (MLD) gain for the Serranator group and the POBA group was 1.64±0.41 mm and 1.33±0.63 mm, respectively. The average atmospheric balloon inflation pressure was 5 ATM in the Serranator group versus 9 ATM in the POBA group. Neither group required a bailout stent; however, it was notable that there were significantly more chronic total occlusions (CTOs) treated in the Serranator group at 41.2% versus 12% in the POBA group. Regarding the effectiveness in improving hemodynamic blood flow for non-CTO lesions, the calculated average ratio of post-treatment to pre-treatment flow rates in the Serranator group was 238% than that for the POBA group. For CTO cases where pre-treatment flow rate was zero, final residual stenosis was used as the parameter for comparison. The Serranator group showed a 62% improvement in final residual stenosis over POBA.
CONCLUSION: Endovascular treatment of the infrapopliteal arteries by use of the Serranator serration balloon provides a novel and promising method of action compared with standard balloon angioplasty and, thus, may have a leading role in complex below-the-knee arterial lesions.
CLINICAL IMPACT: The Serranator device might help to adequately address issues with conventional routine techniques for the treatment of complex lesions in infrapopliteal arteries in patients with advanced stages of PAD and critical limb ischemia. Integrating modern technologies such as the Serranator balloon catheter into clinical routine is mandatory in order to gain a more favorable outcome in these severely diseased patients and, particularly, to reduce mortality and morbidity.

Citation: Guetl K, et al. Standard Balloon Angioplasty Versus Serranator Serration Balloon Angioplasty for the Treatment of Below-the-Knee Artery Occlusive Disease: A Single-Center Subanalysis From the PRELUDE-BTK Prospective Study. Standard Balloon Angioplasty Versus Serranator Serration Balloon Angioplasty for the Treatment of Below-the-Knee Artery Occlusive Disease: A Single-Center Subanalysis From the PRELUDE-BTK Prospective Study. 2024; 31:615-621. doi: 10.1177/15266028221134891

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36408609/
