PMID: 36408873
Title: Morphometric and Hemodynamic Analysis of the Compressed Iliac Vein.

Abstract: PURPOSE: To investigate the relationship between the morphological structure and hemodynamic properties of the compressed iliac vein and explore the reason for the formation of thrombosis in the compressed iliac vein.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: A total of 11 patients with iliac vein compression syndrome (IVCS) were included in this study, and their iliac veins were reconstructed in 3 dimensions (3D). The morphological structures of the iliac veins (confluence angle, degree of stenosis) were analyzed based on the 3D model. Variations in the hemodynamic properties of the iliac vein were investigated at 4 typical moments in one cardiac cycle, and the relationship between the different morphological configurations and the pressure difference was investigated.
RESULTS: In the region of the compressed iliac vein, the blood flow velocity is accelerated and the pressure changes abruptly accompanied by the increase in pressure difference. Higher time averaged wall shear stress (TAWSS) and lower relative residence time (RRT) appeared in stenosis regions of compressed iliac vein, while TAWSS was low and RRT was large near the stenosis position. There was a strong positive correlation between the degree of stenosis and the pressure difference (r=0.894), and a positive correlation between the confluence angle of the iliac vein and the pressure difference (r=0.638).
CONCLUSION: The morphological structure of the compressed iliac vein has an obvious influence on the hemodynamic surroundings; the pressure difference becomes larger when the degree of stenosis and the confluence angle increase. The iliac vein luminal areas with low TAWSS and high RRT near the compressed location can impede blood flow and lead to accumulation of blood components, which may increase the risk of thrombosis formation and should be fully considered in the treatment of IVCS.

Citation: Wang H, et al. Morphometric and Hemodynamic Analysis of the Compressed Iliac Vein. Morphometric and Hemodynamic Analysis of the Compressed Iliac Vein. 2024; 31:744-755. doi: 10.1177/15266028221134895

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36408873/
