PMID: 36406232
Title: A proteomics analysis of neointima formation on decellularized vascular grafts reveals regenerative alterations in protein signature running head: Proteomics analysis of neointima formation.

Abstract: Background: Neointima formation contributes to vascular grafts stenosis and thrombosis. It is a complex reaction that plays a significant role in the performance of vascular grafts. Despite its critical implications, little is known about the mechanisms underlying neointima formation. This study compares neointima proteome in different stages and plasma samples. Methods: Heterogenous acellular native arteries were implanted as abdominal aortic interposition grafts in a rabbit model. Grafts were harvested at 0.5, 1, 4, 6, 7, 14, 21, and 28 days post-surgery for histological and proteomic analysis of the neointima. Results: Histological examination showed a transformed morphological pattern and components, including serum proteins, inflammatory cells, and regenerative cells. Proteomics analysis of the neointima showed distinct characteristics after 14 days of implantation compared to early implantation. Early changes in the neointima samples were proteins involved in acute inflammation and thrombosis, followed by the accumulation of extracellular matrix (ECM) proteins. A total of 110 proteins were found to be differentially expressed in later samples of neointima compared to early controls. The enriched pathways were mainly protein digestion and adsorption, focal adhesion, PI3K-Akt signaling pathway, and ECM-receptor interaction in the late stage. All distributions of proteins in the neointima are different compared to plasma. Conclusion: The biological processes of neointima formation at different stages identified with proteome found developmental characteristics of vascular structure on a decellularized small vascular graft, and significant differences were identified by proteomics in the neointima of early-stage and late-stage after implantation. In the acute unstable phase, the loose and uniform neointima was mainly composed of plasma proteins and inflammatory cells. However, in the relatively stable later stage, the most notable results were an up-regulation of ECM components. The present study demonstrates an interaction between biological matter and vascular graft, provides insights into biological process changes of neointima and facilitates the construction of a functional bioengineered small vascular graft for future clinical applications.

Citation: Chen C, et al. A proteomics analysis of neointima formation on decellularized vascular grafts reveals regenerative alterations in protein signature running head: Proteomics analysis of neointima formation. A proteomics analysis of neointima formation on decellularized vascular grafts reveals regenerative alterations in protein signature running head: Proteomics analysis of neointima formation. 2022; 10:894956. doi: 10.3389/fbioe.2022.894956

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36406232/
