PMID: 36400423
Title: Plethysmographic features of calf pump failure in chronic venous obstruction and reflux.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Calf pump failure (CPF) is a common concept in chronic venous disease. Dorsal vein pressures were originally used to define the pathophysiology. More recently, an abnormal ejection fraction (EF) and residual volume fraction (RVF) with air plethysmography (APG) have been substituted for its diagnosis. The relationship between reflux and calf pump function has been studied extensively. Reflux is thought to be the main cause of CPF, although other mechanisms may play a secondary role. Data mining in our dataset revealed that CPF is frequently found in nonrefluxive limbs-an unexpected finding. We analyzed the APG features of CPF in nonrefluxive limbs of a large cohort of patients investigated for chronic venous disease in our clinic. Data from refluxive limbs (control) seen over the same period was included for comparison. Venous obstructive pathology was variably present in both subsets. Iliac vein stent outcome in CPF limbs from both subsets is included. The role of obstruction in CPF is currently unknown.
METHODS: Records of 13,234 limbs in 8813 patients evaluated for suspected chronic venous disease over a 22-year period were analyzed. Prestent and poststent data in 406 CPF limbs (129 nonrefluxive; 277 refluxive) that underwent iliac vein stenting to correct associated stenosis are included. This is a single-center retrospective analysis of prospectively collected data. Duplex and APG data were available for included limbs. A RVF of more than 50% was defined as CPF. A reflux time of greater than 1 second elicited with automated cuffs in the erect position was defined as reflux.
RESULTS: There were 7780 (59%) limbs with reflux and 5454 (41%) that were nonrefluxive. Supine venous pressure, an index of venous obstruction, was elevated in both subsets. The incidence of CPF was 25% in refluxive limbs and 16% in nonrefluxive limbs totaling 2790 limbs. Venous volume and venous filling index were significantly elevated (P = .0001) in refluxive limbs compared to nonrefluxive limbs. The EF was diminished (<50%) in all CPF limbs except in a small fraction (n = 427 [3%]). Stent correction of iliac vein stenosis corrected CPF, normalizing the RVF in both subsets.
CONCLUSIONS: CPF frequently occurs in nonrefluxive limbs with incidence only slightly less than in refluxive limbs. An RVF of more than 50% seems to be a practical definition of a CPF; an EF of less than 50% is associated with a RVF of greater than 50% in 97% of analyzed limbs. Prospective identification of CPF in limbs with chronic venous disease may allow more detailed investigation of its cause (preload, afterload, neuromuscular pathology or joint immobility, etc) and direct more targeted treatment than currently practiced.

Citation: Raju S, et al. Plethysmographic features of calf pump failure in chronic venous obstruction and reflux. Plethysmographic features of calf pump failure in chronic venous obstruction and reflux. 2023; 11:262-269. doi: 10.1016/j.jvsv.2022.10.013

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36400423/
