PMID: 36402269
Title: Complex Foley Catheter Placement After Radical Prostatectomy.

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: To describe a method for replacement of a dislodged critical urethral foley catheter following a robotic- assisted laparoscopic radical prostatectomy.
BACKGROUND: Following robotic-assisted laparoscopic radical prostatectomy (RALP), a bladder drainage via catheter is necessary to allow for proper healing of the urethrovesical anastomosis. In most cases, this is done using a transurethral foley catheter.1,2 Early traumatic loss of the urethral catheter following RALP is consider a urologic emergency and can lead to vesicourethral anastomotic urine leak, ileus, infection or abscess, and future anastomotic stenosis.3 Replacing the urethral catheter in this situation can be difficult even in experienced hands and often requires imaging assistance.
METHOD: A 53-year-old male with Grade Group 4 (Gleason 4 + 4) prostate cancer underwent an uncomplicated RALP. During his post-operative course, his urethral foley catheter fell out or was traumatically removed three times resulting in disruption of the posterior anastomosis. To replace the urethral catheter and prevent it from being dislodged again, a transabdominal approach under ultrasound and cystoscopic guidance was employed to replace the catheter into the bladder and secure it trans abdominally using a single G-tube safety Pexy T fastener.
CONCLUSION: This case reports describes a technique used to replace and secure a urethral foley catheter in a patient who suffered from a posterior anastomotic disruption following repeated loss and traumatic removal of his urethral foley catheter during his RALP post-operative course. While replacement of a dislodged urethral foley catheter following a RALP can be challenging, the catheter can safely be placed and secured trans abdominally in these rare but serious situations where the conventional catheter secure devices and patient education alone are not sufficient to prevent removal.

Citation: Prillaman GE, et al. Complex Foley Catheter Placement After Radical Prostatectomy. Complex Foley Catheter Placement After Radical Prostatectomy. 2023; 171:251. doi: 10.1016/j.urology.2022.10.023

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36402269/
