PMID: 36404308
Title: Serum MPO levels and activities are associated with angiographic coronary atherosclerotic plaque progression in type 2 diabetic patients.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: The uncontrolled production of MPO promotes inflammation, oxidative stress and atherosclerosis. Serum MPO levels are increased in patients with diabetes compared with patients without diabetes.
OBJECTIVES: This study aimed to investigate whether the serum levels and activities of MPO are related to coronary plaque progression in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM).
MATERIAL AND METHODS: Serum MPO levels and activities were measured in 161 patients with diabetes with plaque progression (plaque progression group) and 87 patients with diabetes with no plaque progression (no plaque progression group). These patients were eligible based on the inclusion criteria and received quantitative coronary angiography at baseline and after approximately 1 year of follow-up. The characteristics and parameters of the participants at baseline were documented.
RESULTS: Serum MPO levels and activities were significantly higher in plaque progression group than in no plaque progression group (P < 0.001). We categorized these patients with diabetes into MPO level or activity tertile subgroups. Significant differences in the plaque progression ratio and prominent changes in the minimal lumen diameter, stenosis diameter and coronary artery stenosis score were observed across the tertile subgroups of MPO levels and activities (all P < 0.01). Moreover, serum MPO levels and activities correlated significantly with these indices of coronary artery disease severity after adjustment for other risk factors. Multivariable regression analyses revealed that serum MPO levels and activities remained independently associated with plaque progression, in addition to smoking, hypertension and CRP levels (all P < 0.05).
CONCLUSIONS: Serum MPO levels and activities are significantly associated with coronary atherosclerotic plaque progression in patients with type 2 diabetes.

Citation: Chen Q, et al. Serum MPO levels and activities are associated with angiographic coronary atherosclerotic plaque progression in type 2 diabetic patients. Serum MPO levels and activities are associated with angiographic coronary atherosclerotic plaque progression in type 2 diabetic patients. 2022; 22:496. doi: 10.1186/s12872-022-02953-7

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36404308/
