PMID: 36407697
Title: Atherosclerotic Carotid Artery Disease: Where to from the emergency room? University hospital experience.

Abstract: OBJECTIVES: Stroke is the second leading cause of death worldwide, resulting in 5.5 million deaths in 2016. Vascular interventions, including carotid endarterectomy (CEA) and carotid artery stenting, play a major role in stroke prevention, especially when performed early after onset of symptoms. This study aimed to define the role of vascular surgeons in ischaemic stroke management and hence improve referral patterns by creating an algorithm for the referral process. This could reduce time to intervention and optimise patient benefit from intervention.
METHODS: This retrospective study reviewed symptomatic and asymptomatic patients with atherosclerotic disease of the carotid artery who were referred to the Vascular Surgery Unit of Sultan Qaboos University Hospital, Muscat, Oman, from April 2018 to March 2020 to examine factors influencing recognition of suitable candidates for intervention. Following analysis of the data, algorithms/protocols were created to simplify the referral process of symptomatic and asymptomatic carotid artery disease for surgical intervention.
RESULTS: A total of 38 patients with ischaemic stroke were recognised as having carotid artery stenosis and were referred to the vascular surgery service during the study period. Only six met the criteria for CEA, four of which underwent the procedure.
CONCLUSION: Choice of patients for CEA involves multiple steps, with potential for missed opportunities. By involving a multidisciplinary team approach, the recommended protocol aims to lead to early and appropriate referral to a vascular surgeon or an interventional radiologist, resulting in increased and optimised intervention in stroke prevention.

Citation: Al Kindi I, et al. Atherosclerotic Carotid Artery Disease: Where to from the emergency room? University hospital experience. Atherosclerotic Carotid Artery Disease: Where to from the emergency room? University hospital experience. 2022; 22:561-565. doi: 10.18295/squmj.4.2022.028

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36407697/
