PMID: 36419315
Title: Precise Patellar Tendon Insertion Protection and Osteotomy Surface Advantage of Transtibial Tuberosity-High Tibial Osteotomy.

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: Medial opening wedge high tibial osteotomy (HTO) is successful in the treatment of knee osteoarthritis with medial compartment stenosis and tibial varus deformity, but patella infera is the main complication. This study aims to design a new medial tibial open osteotomy scheme, transtibial tuberosity-high tibial osteotomy (TT-HTO), which can fully protect the patellar tendon insertion. In addition, the area of the osteotomy surface and wedge volume were evaluated in TT-HTO, biplanar distal tibial tuberosity osteotomy (biplanar-DTO), and uniplanar-DTO to evaluate the potential advantages of this technology in bone healing.
METHODS: The tibial tubercle was divided into four equal sections from proximal to distal, which were defined as zones A, B, C, and D. From September to December 2020, the imaging examinations of 200 patients (95 males and 105 females) with a mean age of 40.6 years (range 19-60 years) were evaluated to observe the zonation of the tibial tubercle where the insertion of the patellar tendon is located. Then, 59 patients (23 males and 36 females) with a mean age 59.6 years (range 43-77 years), for a total of 69 knees (32 right and 37 left), who underwent routine knee surgery were observed and verified. According to the position of the patellar tendon insertion, TT-HTO was designed. Fifteen tibial sawbones were divided equally into three groups: TT-HTO; biplanar-DTO; and uniplanar-DTO. The total area of the osteotomy surface was compared using the graph paper method. The wedge volume at wedge heights of 10 mm was compared among osteotomy types using the plasticine Archimedes principle. One-way repeated-measures analysis of variance was used to compare the total area of the osteotomy surface and the wedge volume.
RESULTS: The osteotomy line of TT-HTO passes through the boundary point of zones B and C of the tibial tubercle to fully protect the insertion point of the patellar tendon. The total area of the osteotomy surface in TT-HTO and biplanar-DTO was significantly larger than that in uniplanar-DTO (P < 0.05). The wedge volume in uniplanar-DTO was significantly smaller than that in TT-HTO and biplanar-DTO (P < 0.05). No significant differences in the osteotomy surface and the wedge volume were identified between TT-HTO and biplanar-DTO.
CONCLUSION: TT-HTO can protect the patellar tendon insertion and avoid postoperative patella infera. The osteotomy surface is large and located in an area of cancellous bone, which ensures its good healing characteristics.

Citation: Wu Z, et al. Precise Patellar Tendon Insertion Protection and Osteotomy Surface Advantage of Transtibial Tuberosity-High Tibial Osteotomy. Precise Patellar Tendon Insertion Protection and Osteotomy Surface Advantage of Transtibial Tuberosity-High Tibial Osteotomy. 2023; 15:639-647. doi: 10.1111/os.13562

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36419315/
