PMID: 36415436
Title: Effectiveness of Multicentric Therapy Post Posterior Cervical Decompression and Fusion for Cervical Disc Disease: A Case Report.

Abstract: In clinical practice, cervical disc abnormalities such as herniated nucleus pulposus (HNP), degenerative disc disease (DDD), and internal disc disturbance are seen. DDD includes degeneration causing annular tears, a decrease in disc height, and nuclear degradation. Cervical stenosis with myelopathy can be caused by anything that narrows the spinal canal and compresses the spinal cord, such as bone spurs, herniated discs, or bulging ligaments. Posterior cervical decompression and fusion (PCDF) is a standard surgical treatment for treating numerous cervical spine diseases. It has been suggested that more intensive and structured physiotherapy is required to improve clinical outcomes with regard to long-term activity restrictions and participation restrictions and deficits in patients' physical abilities relating to their neck post-surgery. In this case study a patient presented with complaints of upper back pain with a tingling sensation in the bilateral upper limbs for one year and was diagnosed with cervical disc disease with degenerative changes in the cervical spine along with disc bulges at C3-C4, C4-C5, C5-C6 levels causing severe spinal canal stenosis at C3-C4, C4-C5 disc levels and radiculopathy and then underwent a spinal fusion with posterior decompression surgery at the C4-C5-C6 level. After surgery, the patient was started with physiotherapy rehabilitation which was planned for 12 weeks. Outcome measures that were included to record the recovery of the patient are Neck Disability Index (NDI) and the Numeric Pain Rating Scale (NPRS). Physiotherapy rehabilitation following posterior cervical spine decompression and fusion surgery for cervical disc disease has been proven to be beneficial in restoring the Range of Motion (ROM), and muscular strength of the bilateral upper limbs, reducing pain, and helping the patient get back to performing activities of daily living (ADLs) independently.

Citation: Ghive DV, et al. Effectiveness of Multicentric Therapy Post Posterior Cervical Decompression and Fusion for Cervical Disc Disease: A Case Report. Effectiveness of Multicentric Therapy Post Posterior Cervical Decompression and Fusion for Cervical Disc Disease: A Case Report. 2022; 14:e30544. doi: 10.7759/cureus.30544

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36415436/
