PMID: 36419381
Title: Ventilation challenge in rigid bronchoscopy: Laser tube as an alternative management in patients with lung cancer and central airway obstruction.

Abstract: INTRODUCTION: Central airway tumors involving the trachea and main-stem bronchi are a common cause of airway obstruction and a significant cause of mortality among the patients of thoracic diseases with respiratory failure. Debulking in rigid bronchoscopy is quick, safe, and effective. It can be complex and hard in patients with severe bronchial or tracheal obstruction and/or with intraluminal bleeding tumors because of inadequate distal airway control. We have used laser tube as a new technique of ventilation for severe central airway obstruction.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Forty-six patients with severe airway obstruction undergoing rigid bronchoscopy from September 2020 to June 2022 at the Thoracic Surgery Department of the University L. Vanvitelli of Naples underwent placement of laser tube.
RESULTS: In all patients who underwent rigid bronchoscopy with the use of the laser tube, a reduction of obstruction of more than 50% was obtained and in all patients no hypoxia (saturation < 88%), nor hypercapnia, nor significant bleeding were reported.
DISCUSSION: The results of this study suggest that rigid bronchoscopic debulking with the use of laser tube is a safe and effective technique in the management of central airway obstruction.
CONCLUSIONS: The use of the laser tube allows the monitoring of gas exchange, which controls hypoxemia. Thanks to the double cuff put distally to the tracheal obstruction or in the contralateral bronchus to the obstructed one, the laser tube prevents the flooding of blood from debulking below the stenosis. Rigid bronchoscopy with laser tube will expand its use in the future.

Citation: Messina G, et al. Ventilation challenge in rigid bronchoscopy: Laser tube as an alternative management in patients with lung cancer and central airway obstruction. Ventilation challenge in rigid bronchoscopy: Laser tube as an alternative management in patients with lung cancer and central airway obstruction. 2023; 14:24-29. doi: 10.1111/1759-7714.14671

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36419381/
