PMID: 36413693
Title: Transcatheter aortic valve replacement in pure native aortic regurgitation: when off-label indications match the patient's requirements.

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: In recent years, transcatheter aortic valve replace (TAVR) has revolutionized the interventional treatment of aortic stenosis, however, only scarce evidence considers it as treatment for Aortic Regurgitation (AR). At present, the treatment of Pure AR of Native Valve with TAVR does not fall within the recommendations of international guidelines, as it poses multiple challenges with immediate and long-term variable and unpredictable results. The objective of this paper is to present the case of a patient with prohibitive operative risk that benefited of TAVR treatment for AR.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: We present the case of a 79-year-old male patient who has severe Pure Native Aortic Valve Regurgitation, considered inoperable. Based on the heart team's decision, TAVR was planned with the use of an Edwards SAPIEN 3 valve. After TAVR, the patient developed complete heart block and a pacemaker was implanted. He improved to NYHA II functional class. At 15-month follow-up, he suffered intracranial hemorrhage and passed away.
RESULTS AND CONCLUSIONS: Management of patients with severe symptomatic AR with high surgical risk continues to be a special challenge. They have high mortality if left untreated with valvular change, despite medical treatment. Even though it is strictly off-label, TAVR might be a reasonable solution for a select type of patients who are considered inoperable due to surgical high mortality risk.

Citation: Madrazo-Shiordia JA, et al. Transcatheter aortic valve replacement in pure native aortic regurgitation: when off-label indications match the patient's requirements. Transcatheter aortic valve replacement in pure native aortic regurgitation: when off-label indications match the patient's requirements. 2022; 92:438-445. doi: 10.24875/ACM.21000194

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36413693/
