PMID: 36416216
Title: Aortic valve sclerosis and subclinical LV dysfunction in the general population with normal LV geometry.

Abstract: AIMS: Aortic valve sclerosis (AVS) without hemodynamically significant obstruction is related to cardiovascular morbidity and mortality independent of left ventricular (LV) hypertrophy, although the underlying mechanisms remain unknown. This study investigated the prevalence of AVS and its association with subclinical LV systolic and diastolic dysfunction in individuals with normal LV geometry free of cardiovascular disease.
METHODS: We examined 962 participants with normal LV geometry and free from significant AV stenosis who underwent standard and speckle-tracking echocardiography. AVS was categorized into 4 groups as follows: no AVS, AV thickening, calcification on one leaflet and calcification on ≥2 leaflets.
RESULTS: Among the 962 participants, 767 (79.7%) individuals were classified as no AVS, 74 (7.7%) as AV thickening, 87 (9.0%) as calcification on one leaflet, and 34 (3.5%) as calcification on ≥2 leaflets. The prevalence of subclinical LV diastolic dysfunction (E/e' ratio ≥13) and systolic dysfunction (LV global longitudinal strain (GLS) > -17.0% for men and > -18.0% for women) were greater in AVS groups than those in no AVS group. Subclinical LV diastolic impairment was evident from AV thickening and systolic dysfunction was observed at AV calcification. Multivariable logistic regression analysis demonstrated that AV thickening as well as calcification were independently associated with subclinical LV diastolic impairment (all p < 0.05), while only AV calcification on ≥2 leaflets conferred significant increased risk of impaired LVGLS.
CONCLUSIONS: AVS was observed in approximately 20% individuals without cardiac disease and was associated with subclinical LV diastolic and systolic function even in the absence of LV morphological change.

Citation: Yoshida Y, et al. Aortic valve sclerosis and subclinical LV dysfunction in the general population with normal LV geometry. Aortic valve sclerosis and subclinical LV dysfunction in the general population with normal LV geometry. 2022; (unknown volume):(unknown pages). doi: 10.1093/eurjpc/zwac279

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36416216/
