PMID: 36415361
Title: Identification of Degenerative Cervical Myelopathy in the Chiropractic Office: Case Report and a Review of the Literature.

Abstract: Degenerative cervical myelopathy (DCM) is a common cause of spinal cord dysfunction, yet it may be challenging to identify as it presents with variable symptoms. A 62-year-old woman presented to a chiropractor with a three-month exacerbation of neck pain, hand/finger numbness, and torso dysesthesia. She had previously seen primary care, physical therapy, rheumatology, and pain management. Previous cervical magnetic resonance imaging showed moderate cervical canal stenosis; however, previous providers had diagnosed her with radiculopathy and possible carpal tunnel syndrome yet had not requested neurosurgical consultation. On examination, the chiropractor identified sensorimotor deficits, hyperreflexia, and bilateral Hoffman reflexes, and referred the patient to a neurosurgeon for suspected DCM. The neurosurgeon performed an anterior cervical discectomy and fusion from C4-7. The patient's symptoms and disability level improved within two months of follow-up. We identified 11 previous cases in which a chiropractor suspected DCM which was then confirmed by a surgeon. Including the current case (i.e., 12 total), patients were older and mostly male; 50% had neck pain, 92% had hyperreflexia. Chiropractors referred each patient to a surgeon; 83% underwent cervical spine surgery. This case highlights the identification of DCM by a chiropractor and referral for neurosurgical evaluation with a positive outcome. Patients with previously undiagnosed DCM may present to chiropractors with varied symptoms and examination findings. DCM may contraindicate spinal manipulation and instead warrant surgery. Accordingly, chiropractors play a key role in the detection and referral of patients with misdiagnosed or overlooked DCM.

Citation: Trager RJ, et al. Identification of Degenerative Cervical Myelopathy in the Chiropractic Office: Case Report and a Review of the Literature. Identification of Degenerative Cervical Myelopathy in the Chiropractic Office: Case Report and a Review of the Literature. 2022; 14:e30508. doi: 10.7759/cureus.30508

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36415361/
