PMID: 36415374
Title: Airway Management of a Patient With Tracheoesophageal Fistula and Tracheal Stent.

Abstract: A 69-year-old male patient, a known case of squamous cell carcinoma of the esophagus on palliative care and Do Not Attempt Resuscitation (DNAR) status, presented for urgent laparoscopic gastrostomy tube insertion under general anesthesia. The patient had developed an iatrogenic tracheoesophageal fistula (TEF) because of the tracheal stent, which was placed for tracheal stenosis. A preoperative assessment was done, and a plan of airway management via one-lung ventilation (OLV) through an endobronchial tube was devised by the anesthesia team and discussed with the surgery team. The airway was secured via asleep fiberoptic right endobronchial intubation using a microlaryngeal tube (MLT) size 6 since there was uncertainty regarding adequate patency of the airway due to the invasion by the tumor and the presence of the stent. The patient remained hemodynamically stable. After surgical incision and insufflation of CO<sub>2</sub> in the abdominal cavity, the patient's airway pressures were increased and we were unable to deliver adequate tidal volumes. Surgery was stopped; the presence of a kink in the circuit or endotracheal tube (ETT), the possibility of laryngospasm/bronchospasm, and pneumothorax were ruled out. Fiberoptic bronchoscopy (FOB) revealed that the endobronchial tube was abutting the secondary carina. We pulled the MLT by 2 cm. The rest of the procedure was uneventful and we extubated the patient at the end of the procedure under vision using a fiber optic bronchoscope. The patient was discharged after two days of stay in the hospital. Our patient with TEF and tracheal stent posed a significant challenge for airway management. A thorough plan was drawn up and a team briefing was done. Perioperatively, the difficulty in ventilation was identified, and various other etiologies were ruled out with the successful identification and management of the problem.

Citation: Ashraf U, et al. Airway Management of a Patient With Tracheoesophageal Fistula and Tracheal Stent. Airway Management of a Patient With Tracheoesophageal Fistula and Tracheal Stent. 2022; 14:e30524. doi: 10.7759/cureus.30524

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36415374/
