PMID: 36412039
Title: Weakness of lower limb muscle in symptomatic peripheral artery disease with media sclerosis detected by ultrasound shear wave elastography.

Abstract: Background: Symptomatic peripheral arterial disease (PAD) is difficult to non-invasively diagnose in the presence of calcified, media sclerotic arteries that are incompressible by blood pressure cuffs. Standard ankle-brachial index (ABI) measurements in these PAD patients are very often not helpful. Shear wave elastography (SWE) is a modern ultrasound technique to detect peripheral muscle stiffness changes i.e. muscle weakness during exercise. In a pilot study, we examined whether SWE could be a reproducible tool for diagnosing ischemic loss of muscle stiffness in patients with PAD and concomitant arterial media sclerosis. Patients and methods: N=13 consecutive patients with peripheral artery disease and media sclerosis were enrolled in the pilot study. All 13 patients were symptomatic in different stages of their PAD due to hemodynamically relevant arterial stenosis or occlusions of limb arteries as confirmed by oscillography, color-coded duplex sonography or angiography. Results: ABI measurements were invalid in all 13 patients. Mean SWE measurements of medial gastrocnemius muscles showed a significant transient muscle stiffness loss (weakness) at maximum exercise (active dorsal flexion of the foot, 103.4±25.9 kPa on the asymptomatic vs. 62.5±21.9 kPa on the symptomatic limb (p&lt;0.001). Conclusions: SWE can reproducibly detect peripheral muscle weakness during exercise in the symptomatic leg of media sclerotic PAD patients. SWE of lower limb muscles may help to identify symptomatic PAD in patients presenting with invalid ABI measurements and unclear vascular status.

Citation: Piepenburg SM, et al. Weakness of lower limb muscle in symptomatic peripheral artery disease with media sclerosis detected by ultrasound shear wave elastography. Weakness of lower limb muscle in symptomatic peripheral artery disease with media sclerosis detected by ultrasound shear wave elastography. 2023; 52:46-53. doi: 10.1024/0301-1526/a001039

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36412039/
