PMID: 36419038
Title: Temporal regulation of notch activation improves arteriovenous fistula maturation.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Arteriovenous fistula (AVF) maturation is a process involving remodeling of venous arm of the AVFs. It is a challenge to balance adaptive AVF remodeling and neointima formation. In this study we temporally controlled Notch activation to promote AVF maturation while avoiding neointima formation.
METHODS: Temporal Notch activation was controlled by regulating the expression of Notch transcription factor, RBP-Jκ, or dnMAML1 (dominant negative MAML2) in vascular smooth muscle cells (VSMCs). AVF mouse model was created and VSMC phenotype dynamic changes during AVF remodeling were determined.
RESULTS: Activated Notch was found in the nuclei of neointimal VSMCs in AVFs from uremic mice. We found that the VSMCs near the anastomosis became dedifferentiated and activated after AVF creation. These dedifferentiated VSMCs regained smooth muscle contractile markers later during AVF remodeling. However, global or VSMC-specific KO of RBP-Jκ at early stage (before or 1 week after AVF surgery) blocked VSMC differentiation and neointima formation in AVFs. These un-matured AVFs showed less intact endothelium and increased infiltration of inflammatory cells. Consequently, the VSMC fate in the neointima was completely shut down, leading to an un-arterialized AVF. In contrast, KO of RBP-Jκ at late stage (3 weeks after AVF surgery), it could not block neointima formation and vascular stenosis. Inhibition of Notch activation at week 1 or 2, could maintain VSMC contractile markers expression and facilitate AVF maturation.
CONCLUSIONS: This work uncovers the molecular and cellular events in each segment of AVF remodeling and found that neither sustained increasing nor blocking of Notch signaling improves AVF maturation. It highlights a novel strategy to improve AVF patency: temporally controlled Notch activation can achieve a balance between adaptive AVF remodeling and neointima formation to improve AVF maturation.
TRANSLATIONAL PERSPECTIVE: Adaptive vascular remodeling is required for AVF maturation. The balance of wall thickening of the vein and neointima formation in AVF determines the fate of AVF function. Sustained activation of Notch signaling in VSMCs promotes neointima formation, while deficiency of Notch signaling at early stage during AVF remodeling prevents VSMC accumulation and differentiation from forming a functional AVFs. These responses also delay EC regeneration and impair EC barrier function with increased inflammation leading to failed vascular remodeling of AVFs. Thus, a strategy to temporal regulate Notch activation will improve AVF maturation.

Citation: Guo Q, et al. Temporal regulation of notch activation improves arteriovenous fistula maturation. Temporal regulation of notch activation improves arteriovenous fistula maturation. 2022; 20:543. doi: 10.1186/s12967-022-03727-7

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36419038/
