PMID: 36424198
Title: The impact of portal vein reconstruction on portal vein complications after pediatric living-donor liver transplantation with left lobe graft.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: This study aimed to determine whether the different methods of portal vein reconstruction have an impact on the occurrence of portal vein complications after pediatric living-donor liver transplantation with left lobe graft.
METHODS: A total of 567 recipients were eligible for enrollment in this study and were divided into the following 2 groups according to the type of portal vein reconstruction: group 1 underwent anastomosis of the left and right bifurcations of the recipient portal vein to the donor portal vein (type 1), whereas group 2 underwent anastomosis of the bevel formed by the main trunk and right branch of the recipient portal vein to the donor portal vein (type 2). Postoperative portal vein complications and recipient and graft survival rates were compared between the 2 groups before and after propensity score matching.
RESULTS: Portal vein complications occurred in 53 (9.3%) patients, including 46 recipients with portal vein stenosis and 7 with portal vein thrombosis. After propensity score matching, the incidence of portal vein stenosis in group 2 was lower than that in group 1 (P = .035). The first diagnosis time of portal vein stenosis in group 2 was later than that in group 1 (P = .033), and the incidence of early portal vein stenosis was lower than that in group 1 (P = .009). There were no statistically significant differences in the incidence of portal vein thrombosis and recipient and graft survival rates between the 2 groups.
CONCLUSIONS: Type 2 portal vein reconstruction appears to be a viable technique in pediatric living-donor liver transplantation with left lobe graft that can effectively reduce the incidence of portal vein stenosis.

Citation: Ren J, et al. The impact of portal vein reconstruction on portal vein complications after pediatric living-donor liver transplantation with left lobe graft. The impact of portal vein reconstruction on portal vein complications after pediatric living-donor liver transplantation with left lobe graft. 2023; 173:537-543. doi: 10.1016/j.surg.2022.10.020

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36424198/
