PMID: 36428911
Title: HRU-Net: A Transfer Learning Method for Carotid Artery Plaque Segmentation in Ultrasound Images.

Abstract: Carotid artery stenotic plaque segmentation in ultrasound images is a crucial means for the analysis of plaque components and vulnerability. However, segmentation of severe stenotic plaques remains a challenging task because of the heterogeneities of inter-plaques and intra-plaques, and obscure boundaries of plaques. In this paper, we propose an automated HRU-Net transfer learning method for segmenting carotid plaques, using the limited images. The HRU-Net is based on the U-Net encoder−decoder paradigm, and cross-domain knowledge is transferred for plaque segmentation by fine-tuning the pretrained ResNet-50. Moreover, a cropped-blood-vessel image augmentation is customized for the plaque position constraint during training only. Moreover, hybrid atrous convolutions (HACs) are designed to derive diverse long-range dependences for refined plaque segmentation that are used on high-level semantic layers to exploit the implicit discrimination features. The experiments are performed on 115 images; Firstly, the 10-fold cross-validation, using 40 images with severe stenosis plaques, shows that the proposed method outperforms some of the state-of-the-art CNN-based methods on Dice, IoU, Acc, and modified Hausdorff distance (MHD) metrics; the improvements on metrics of Dice and MHD are statistically significant (p < 0.05). Furthermore, our HRU-Net transfer learning method shows fine generalization performance on 75 new images with varying degrees of plaque stenosis, and it may be used as an alternative for automatic noisy plaque segmentation in carotid ultrasound images clinically.

Citation: Yuan Y, et al. HRU-Net: A Transfer Learning Method for Carotid Artery Plaque Segmentation in Ultrasound Images. HRU-Net: A Transfer Learning Method for Carotid Artery Plaque Segmentation in Ultrasound Images. 2022; 12:(unknown pages). doi: 10.3390/diagnostics12112852

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36428911/
