PMID: 36435326
Title: Iatrogenic Strokes and Covert Brain Infarcts After Percutaneous Cardiac Procedures: An Update.

Abstract: Millions of cardiac procedures are performed worldwide each year, making the potential complication of periprocedural iatrogenic stroke an important concern. These strokes can occur intraoperatively or within 30 days of a procedure and can be categorised as either overt or covert, occurring without obvious acute neurologic symptoms. Understanding the prevalence, risk factors, and strategies for preventing overt and covert strokes associated with cardiac procedures is imperative for reducing periprocedural morbidity and mortality. In this narrative review, we focus on the impacts of perioperative ischemic strokes for several of the most common interventional cardiac procedures, their relevance from a neurologic standpoint, and future directions for the care and research on perioperative strokes. Depending on the percutaneous procedure, the rates of periprocedural overt strokes can range from as little as 0.01% to as high as 2.9%. Meanwhile, covert brain infarctions (CBIs) occur much more frequently, with rates for different procedures ranging from 10%-84%. Risk factors include previous stroke, atherosclerotic disease, carotid stenosis, female sex, and African race, as well as other patient- and procedure-level factors. While the impact of covert brain infarctions is still a developing field, overt strokes for cardiac procedures lead to longer stays in hospital and increased costs. Potential preventative measures include screening and vascular risk factor control, premedicating, and procedural considerations such as the use of cerebral embolic protection devices. In addition, emerging treatments from the neurologic field, including neuroprotective drugs and remote ischemic conditioning, present promising avenues for preventing these strokes and merit investigation in cardiac procedures.

Citation: Betzner WR, et al. Iatrogenic Strokes and Covert Brain Infarcts After Percutaneous Cardiac Procedures: An Update. Iatrogenic Strokes and Covert Brain Infarcts After Percutaneous Cardiac Procedures: An Update. 2023; 39:200-209. doi: 10.1016/j.cjca.2022.11.008

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36435326/
