PMID: 36437309
Title: Transcriptomic profiling of calcified aortic valves in clonal hematopoiesis of indeterminate potential carriers.

Abstract: Clonal hematopoiesis of indeterminate potential (CHIP) is characterized by the presence of clones of mutated blood cells without overt blood diseases. In the last few years, it has emerged that CHIP is associated with atherosclerosis and coronary calcification and that it is an independent determinant of cardiovascular mortality. Recently, CHIP has been found to occur frequently in patients with calcific aortic valve disease (CAVD) and it is associated with a poor prognosis after valve replacement. We assessed the frequency of CHIP by DNA sequencing in the blood cells of 168 CAVD patients undergoing surgical aortic valve replacement or transcatheter aortic valve implantation and investigated the effect of CHIP on 12 months survival. To investigate the pathological process of CAVD in CHIP carriers, we compared by RNA-Seq the aortic valve transcriptome of patients with or without CHIP and non-calcific controls. Transcriptomics data were validated by immunohistochemistry on formalin-embedded aortic valve samples. We confirm that CHIP is common in CAVD patients and that its presence is associated with higher mortality following valve replacement. Additionally, we show, for the first time, that CHIP is often accompanied by a broad cellular and humoral immune response in the explanted aortic valve. Our results suggest that an excessive inflammatory response in CHIP patients may be related to the onset and/or progression of CAVD and point to B cells as possible new effectors of CHIP-induced inflammation.

Citation: Vieceli Dalla Sega F, et al. Transcriptomic profiling of calcified aortic valves in clonal hematopoiesis of indeterminate potential carriers. Transcriptomic profiling of calcified aortic valves in clonal hematopoiesis of indeterminate potential carriers. 2022; 12:20400. doi: 10.1038/s41598-022-24130-8

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36437309/
