PMID: 36438916
Title: Effects of Daehwang-Hwanglyoun-Sasim-Tang on brain injury and cognitive function in mice caused by bilateral common carotid artery stenosis.

Abstract: Among geriatric diseases, cerebrovascular disease ranks fourth according to the Causes of Death Statistics in 2019, Korea, and is the most common cause of acquired disorders in adults. Daehwang-Hwanglyoun-Sasim-Tang (DHST), a herbal prescription consisting of two herbal medicines, Rhei Rhizoma and Coptidis Rhizoma, has been reported to have anti-inflammatory, antioxidant, and anticancer effects. This study was conducted to confirm the anti-inflammatory mechanism of DHST treatment in ischemic brain injury and to confirm the role of DHST in cognitive function improvement. C57BL/6 male mice were randomly divided into four groups (sham operation, bilateral common carotid artery stenosis (BCAS) control, experimental group administered 5 mL/kg DHST, experimental group administered 50 mL/kg DHST), with each group containing five mice. After 1 week, DHST was orally administered for 4 weeks, 5 days a week, and then behavioral evaluation of learning and memory was performed. In addition, morphological changes in the neurons in the CA1 region of the hippocampus were observed. Inflammation-related factors were evaluated using western blot analysis. In the 50 mL/kg DHST (H-DHST) group, the expression of apoptosis-related proteins was reduced and neuronal damage was suppressed in the hippocampal CA1 region. However, cognitive improvement was observed in the H-DHST group that was attributable to anti-inflammatory and antiapoptotic pathways. In the 5 mL/kg DHST group, no significant effect was observed compared with the control group.

Citation: Lee MH, et al. Effects of Daehwang-Hwanglyoun-Sasim-Tang on brain injury and cognitive function in mice caused by bilateral common carotid artery stenosis. Effects of Daehwang-Hwanglyoun-Sasim-Tang on brain injury and cognitive function in mice caused by bilateral common carotid artery stenosis. 2022; 19:1942-1952. doi: 10.7150/ijms.77879

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36438916/
