PMID: 36441216
Title: Impact of coronary plaque characteristics on periprocedural myocardial injury in elective percutaneous coronary intervention.

Abstract: OBJECTIVES: To investigate the relationship between periprocedural myocardial injury (PMI) and plaque characteristics detected by multidetector computed tomography (MDCT) and cardiac magnetic resonance imaging (CMR).
MATERIALS AND METHODS: This observational retrospective study, between July 2012 and October 2019, included chronic coronary syndrome patients undergoing elective percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) after MDCT and CMR. High-intensity plaque (HIP) on non-contrast T1-weighted imaging was defined as a coronary plaque-to-myocardium signal intensity ratio of ≥ 1.4. High-risk plaque (HRP) in MDCT displayed ≥ 2 features: positive remodeling, low-attenuation plaque, spotty calcification, and napkin-ring sign. PMI was defined as an increase in cardiac troponin T levels > 5 times the upper normal limit at 24 h after PCI.
RESULTS: Ninety-five target lesions in 76 patients (mean age ± standard deviation, 67 years ± 9; 62 males [82%]) were included. Twenty-one patients (24 lesions) were assigned to the PMI group, while 55 patients (71 lesions) to the non-PMI group. Presence of HRP characteristics on MDCT and HIP on CMR was significantly higher in the PMI group. Multivariate logistic regression analysis showed that HRP in MDCT and HIP in CMR were significant independent predictors of PMI. Target lesions with HRP on MDCT and HIP on CMR were significantly more likely to develop PMI. In 141 plaques with ≥ 50% stenosis (76 patients), patients with PMI had significantly more frequent HRP in MDCT and HIP in CMR in target and non-target lesions.
CONCLUSIONS: MDCT and CMR can play an important role in the detection of high-risk lesions for PMI following elective PCI.
KEY POINTS: • Multivariate logistic regression analysis showed that high-risk plaque on MDCT and high-intensity plaque on MRI were significant independent predictors of periprocedural myocardial injury (PMI). • Target lesions with high-risk plaque on MDCT and high-intensity plaque on CMR were significantly more likely to develop PMI. • In 141 plaques with ≥ 50% stenosis, patients with PMI were significantly more likely to have high-risk plaques on MDCT and high-intensity plaque on CMR in target and non-target lesions.

Citation: Usami K, et al. Impact of coronary plaque characteristics on periprocedural myocardial injury in elective percutaneous coronary intervention. Impact of coronary plaque characteristics on periprocedural myocardial injury in elective percutaneous coronary intervention. 2023; 33:3020-3028. doi: 10.1007/s00330-022-09288-z

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36441216/
