PMID: 36446067
Title: Benefits of the selective invasive strategy guided by CTA and CTA-derived fractional flow reserve in patients with coronary artery disease.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Coronary computed tomography angiography (CTA) has high diagnostic accuracy in ruling out significant stenosis of coronary arteries. The additional use of CTA- derived fractional flow reserve (FFR) further enhances diagnostic utility of coronary CTA. Some patients interrogated non-invasively have diseased coronary arteries and undergo further diagnostic testing, including invasive coronary angiography (ICA). Patients with one-vessel disease may benefit from invasive interrogation limited to the diseased vessel only.
AIMS: We analyzed the impact of a "diseased-vessel-only" selective invasive diagnostic approach in 100 patients undergoing ICA following coronary CTA (and CT-FFR) as compared to the traditional "full ICA" approach. We aimed to compare contrast volume and radiation dose used during ICA in both scenarios, seeking potential benefits for the patient in reducing those values by the "dis-eased-vessel-only" approach.
RESULTS: Sensitivity, specificity, positive predictive value, and negative predictive value of CTA in prediction of subsequent revascularization were 96%, 75%, 51%, and 99%, respectively, and for CT-FFR 90%, 90%, 69%, and 97%, respectively. Using CTA as a method to guide ICA would reduce contrast volume and estimated radiation dose (ED) by 35% and 42.0%, respectively (P <0.0001 for both). Taking into consideration CT-FFR results, contrast volume would be reduced by 57% and ED by 69% (P <0.0001 for both).
CONCLUSION: These real-world data support the concept that vessels with <50% diameter stenosis on quantitative computed tomography and with hemodynamically insignificant CTA-derived FFR result may be omitted during ICA. Such an approach would result in substantial reductions in con-trast media volume used, as well as patients' exposure to radiation during ICA, while not leading to misdiagnoses.

Citation: Dębski MA, et al. Benefits of the selective invasive strategy guided by CTA and CTA-derived fractional flow reserve in patients with coronary artery disease. Benefits of the selective invasive strategy guided by CTA and CTA-derived fractional flow reserve in patients with coronary artery disease. 2023; 81:252-258. doi: 10.33963/KP.a2022.0264

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36446067/
