PMID: 36449459
Title: Clinical characteristics and risk factors for rebleeding in uremic patients with obscure gastrointestinal bleeding undergoing deep enteroscopy: A multi-center retrospective study in Taiwan.

Abstract: BACKGROUND/PURPOSE: Recurrent obscure gastrointestinal bleeding (OGIB) in patients with chronic kidney disease is a challenge often faced by physicians, given the need for repeated hospitalizations, multiple extensive examinations, limited treatment options, and high medical costs. The purpose of this study was to identify the clinical characteristics of uremic patients undergoing deep enteroscopy for OGIB and analyze the risk factors for rebleeding in these patients after undergoing single-balloon enteroscopy (SBE).
METHODS: Out of 765 patients with OGIB who underwent 1004 procedures of SBE in four teaching hospitals, 78 uremic patients with OGIB were enrolled. Clinical characteristics and endoscopic findings were collected, and multiple variables were analyzed to determine the risk of rebleeding after SBE.
RESULTS: The diagnostic yield was 75.6%, and the rebleeding rate was 29.5% in the enrolled uremic patients. The most common etiology was angiodysplasia (74.6%) and the most common site was the jejunum (50.8%). The endoscopic intervention rate was 62.8% and most patients were treated with argon plasma coagulation (75.6%). Among the eight patients with valvular heart disease (VHD), four (50%) had severe aortic stenosis, and the remaining had non-aortic stenosis-VHD. VHD (p < 0.05) and angiodysplasia (p < 0.05) were both associated with a higher rebleeding rate.
CONCLUSION: VHD may be an independent risk factor associated with rebleeding after SBE in uremic patients with OGIB. Moreover, uremic patients with angiodysplasia-related bleeding appear to have a higher rebleeding rate than those with alternative causes of bleeding.

Citation: Hung HJ, et al. Clinical characteristics and risk factors for rebleeding in uremic patients with obscure gastrointestinal bleeding undergoing deep enteroscopy: A multi-center retrospective study in Taiwan. Clinical characteristics and risk factors for rebleeding in uremic patients with obscure gastrointestinal bleeding undergoing deep enteroscopy: A multi-center retrospective study in Taiwan. 2022; 17:e0277434. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0277434

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36449459/
