PMID: 36454904
Title: PNPLA3 allele frequency has no impact on biliary bile acid composition or disease course in patients with primary sclerosing cholangitis.

Abstract: BACKGROUND AND AIMS: Primary sclerosing cholangitis (PSC) is a chronic inflammatory disease that leads to bile duct strictures, cholestasis, and biliary cirrhosis. PNPLA3 (patatin-like phospholipase domain containing 3), regulates cellular lipid synthesis by converting lysophosphatidic acid into phosphatidic acid. Isoleucine mutation to methionine at position 148 (I148M) causes a loss of this function. Only two studies, with contradictory results, have evaluated the role of PNPLA3 in PSC. The rs738409(G) variant of PNPLA3 has been associated with an increased risk for transplantation in male patients with dominant strictures (DS). The study aimed to evaluate the PNPLA3 allele frequency effect on the clinical outcomes, progression, and prognosis of PSC. Furthermore, we analyzed the impact of PNPLA3 on phospholipid and bile acid composition to evaluate the effect of the PNPLA3 status on UDCA response.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: We recruited 560 patients prospectively and collected clinical and laboratory data as well as liver histology and imaging findings. PNPLA3 (CC, CG, GG) alleles were analyzed with TaqManTM. We also analyzed bile acids (BA), cholesterol and phospholipids and individual BA from a sample aspirated during endoscopic retrograde cholangiography (ERC).
RESULTS: Among the recruited patients, 58.4%, 35.7% and 5.9% had the wild (CC), heterozygous (CG) and homozygous (GG) alleles, respectively. The PNPLA3 haplotype did not impact bile composition or individual BA. In addition, we found no differences in age at diagnosis, disease progression, liver fibrosis or survival between the cohorts.
CONCLUSIONS: The PNPLA3 I148M variant had no significant impact on on bile composition, including UDCA content, clinical outcomes, progression of liver fibrosis, hepatobiliary cancer risk, liver transplantation, or overall survival.

Citation: Färkkilä M, et al. PNPLA3 allele frequency has no impact on biliary bile acid composition or disease course in patients with primary sclerosing cholangitis. PNPLA3 allele frequency has no impact on biliary bile acid composition or disease course in patients with primary sclerosing cholangitis. 2022; 17:e0277084. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0277084

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36454904/
