PMID: 36463532
Title: Effect of remimazolam on the incidence of delirium after transcatheter aortic valve implantation under general anesthesia: a retrospective exploratory study.

Abstract: PURPOSE: Delirium after transcatheter aortic valve implantation (TAVI) should be prevented because it is associated with worse patient outcomes. Perioperative administration of benzodiazepines is a risk factor for postoperative delirium; however, the association between remimazolam, a newer ultrashort-acting benzodiazepine for general anesthesia, and postoperative delirium remains unclear. This study aimed to evaluate whether remimazolam administration during TAVI under general anesthesia affected the incidence of postoperative delirium.
METHODS: This single-center retrospective study recruited all adult patients who underwent transfemoral TAVI (TF-TAVI) under general anesthesia between March 2020 and May 2022. Patients were divided into the remimazolam (R) and propofol (P) groups according to the sedative used for anesthesia. In the R group, all patients received flumazenil after surgery. The primary endpoint was the incidence of delirium within 3 days after surgery. Factors associated with delirium after TF-TAVI were examined by multiple logistic regression analysis.
RESULTS: Ninety-eight patients were included in the final analysis (R group, n = 40; P group, n = 58). The incidence of postoperative delirium was significantly lower in the R group than in the P group (8% vs. 26%, p = 0.032). Multiple logistic regression analysis revealed that remimazolam (odds ratio 0.17, 95% CI 0.04-0.80, p = 0.024) was independently associated with the incidence of postoperative delirium, even after adjustment for age, sex, preoperative cognitive function, history of stroke, and TF-TAVI approach.
CONCLUSION: Remimazolam may benefit TF-TAVI in terms of postoperative delirium; however, its usefulness must be further evaluated in extensive prospective studies.

Citation: Kaneko S, et al. Effect of remimazolam on the incidence of delirium after transcatheter aortic valve implantation under general anesthesia: a retrospective exploratory study. Effect of remimazolam on the incidence of delirium after transcatheter aortic valve implantation under general anesthesia: a retrospective exploratory study. 2023; 37:210-218. doi: 10.1007/s00540-022-03148-2

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36463532/
