PMID: 36468761
Title: Rationale and design of the sirolimus eluting balloon utilization for treatment of vasculogenic erectile dysfunction: the SUASION Registry.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Conventional angioplasty balloon catheter, drug coated balloon (DCB), or angioplasty with drug eluting stent (DES) have been used on the percutaneous treatment of erectile dysfunction (ED). Currently available DCBs are paclitaxel eluting balloon (PEB), very recently, sirolimus eluting balloon (SEB). Although endovascular revascularization with balloon resulted in improvement of ED, there have been no prior reports on the feasibility of SEB treatment for ED.
METHODS: We present an observational, retrospective-prospective multicentre registry in patients evaluating the use of SEB for the treatment of de novo stenosis in native internal pudendal arteries. We will include 100 patients affected by vasculogenic ED non responder to PDE5i with up to two lesions requiring treatment. ED patients should present a IIEF-5 Score<15, positive dynamic doppler (PSV <25 cm/s) and/or evidence at basal CT angiography. At 30 days, 180, 240, and 365 days following the index procedure, IIEF-5 score will be assessed, and medication regimen and adverse event monitoring will be assessed. At 8 months a dynamic Doppler will be performed. Patients will be followed up for 2 years. The primary endpoints are the Delta IIEF-5 Score and a Delta PSV between basal and 8 months follow-up. The secondary endpoint is the incidence of major adverse event (MAE), binary restenosis and late loss in patients who will repeat control angiography if clinically indicated.
CONCLUSIONS: Considering the limitations and safety concerns of PEB, POBA and DES used so far in ED clinical investigations, we hypothesize that sirolimus nanocarriers-coated balloon can potentially be an improved next-generation treatment for ED patients.

Citation: Matteucci A, et al. Rationale and design of the sirolimus eluting balloon utilization for treatment of vasculogenic erectile dysfunction: the SUASION Registry. Rationale and design of the sirolimus eluting balloon utilization for treatment of vasculogenic erectile dysfunction: the SUASION Registry. 2023; 71:349-358. doi: 10.23736/S2724-5683.22.06039-2

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36468761/
