PMID: 36464490
Title: Patients' motivation to undergo transcatheter aortic valve replacement. A phenomenological hermeneutic study.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Aortic stenosis is the most common valvular disease, and its prevalence is increasing due to the ageing population. Transcatheter aortic valve replacement (TAVR) is the recommended method when treating frail, older patients. Knowledge of what motivates older patients to undergo TAVR is important, in order to meet patients' expectations.
OBJECTIVE: The study aimed to explore the meaning of older patients' motivation to undergo TAVR.
DESIGN AND METHODS: The design was a qualitative study, analysed using a phenomenological hermeneutic approach. In-depth, semi-structured interviews with open-ended questions were conducted. Participants were selected from a specialist cardiology clinic in Sweden. Eighteen patients, six women and twelve men, aged 66-92, were recruited.
RESULTS: The analysis showed that patients who had agreed to undergo TAVR were deeply affected by their body's failure. Before the TAVR procedure, the participants were limited in their daily activities and experienced that their life was on hold. They experienced that they were barely existing. They were aware of their life-threatening condition and were forced to confront death. Yet despite an advanced age, they still had considerable zest for life. It was very important to them to remain independent in everyday life, and fear of becoming dependent had a strong impact on their motivations for undergoing TAVR.
CONCLUSION: Older patients' motivations to undergo TAVR are strongly influenced by their fear of being dependent on others and their zest for life. Health care professionals need to support these patients in setting realistic and personalised goals.
IMPLICATION FOR PRACTICE: Person-centered care actions could facilitate patients' involvement in the decision about TAVR and strenghten patients' beliefs in their own capabilities, before and after TAVR.

Citation: Lachonius M, et al. Patients' motivation to undergo transcatheter aortic valve replacement. A phenomenological hermeneutic study. Patients' motivation to undergo transcatheter aortic valve replacement. A phenomenological hermeneutic study. 2023; 18:e12521. doi: 10.1111/opn.12521

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36464490/
