PMID: 36479569
Title: Case report: Takotsubo syndrome induced by severe hypoglycemia.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Takotsubo syndrome (TTS) is a disorder frequently characterized by transient dysfunction of the apical portion of the left ventricle with hyperkinesis in other parts of the heart walls. TTS is also called stress cardiomyopathy because it is known to be triggered by emotional or physical stress. We report a case of TTS associated with severe hypoglycemia.
CASE SUMMARY: An 85-year-old female patient with a history of non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus and hypertension presented to the emergency department with hypoglycemia-induced unconsciousness. The patient regained consciousness after an intravenous glucose injection. The patient complained of chest discomfort after the correction of hypoglycemia. Electrocardiography (ECG) revealed ST-segment elevation in leads V<sub>2</sub>-V<sub>5</sub>, therefore, ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction was highly suspected. Echocardiography showed impaired left ventricular systolic function with an ejection fraction of 40% accompanied by hypokinesis of the apex. Percutaneous coronary angiography showed 30% stenosis of the left anterior descending coronary artery. Left ventricular angiography revealed apical dyskinesia, which is typical of the classic apical ballooning shape of takotsubo. The patient was diagnosed with TTS and managed with pharmacological therapy, including antiplatelet (i.e., aspirin), lipid-lowering, anti-heart failure, and hypoglycemic drugs. The patient was successfully discharged in a stable condition.
CONCLUSION: This is a representative case of TTS caused by hypoglycemia. Due to the self-limiting nature of TTS, diagnoses can be missed among hypoglycemic patients. Thus, echocardiography is required for patients with hypoglycemia to ensure an accurate TTS diagnosis in the emergency department.

Citation: Xia P, et al. Case report: Takotsubo syndrome induced by severe hypoglycemia. Case report: Takotsubo syndrome induced by severe hypoglycemia. 2022; 9:1059638. doi: 10.3389/fcvm.2022.1059638

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36479569/
