PMID: 36479163
Title: Percutaneous Transvenous Balloon Mitral Commissurotomy: A Single-Center Experience.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Rheumatic heart disease and its impact on cardiac health is still a concern in developing countries. Percutaneous trans-mitral commissurotomy (PTMC) is the standard of care in managing severe rheumatic mitral stenosis (MS). This article reports a single-center, 10-year real-world experience in Qatar.
METHODS: In this retrospective study, we reviewed all the patients who underwent PTMC in Qatar between January 1, 2012, and January 1, 2022. Periprocedural data were collected at baseline, postprocedural, 1 year, and during the last follow-up. The primary outcome was procedural success (improvement in valve area by 50%, final valve area &gt;1.5 cm2, and freedom from &gt; moderate mitral regurgitation, stroke, or pericardial effusion). Safety endpoints were freedom from death, periprocedural cardiogenic shock and cardiac arrest, stroke urgent mitral valve replacement (MVR), or pericardiocentesis. Long-term outcomes included the requirement of redo PTMC or MVR, in addition to rehospitalization due to arrhythmias, heart failure, or stroke.
RESULTS: Sixty-five patients were included in the review (age 42 ± 10, female 38 [58.5%]). Sixty-two patients (95.4%) had a successful procedure. One patient developed a hemorrhagic pericardial tamponade and cardiogenic shock, for which he underwent pericardiocentesis and emergency aortic root repair. One patient developed acute stroke 8 h after the procedure, and one patient had tamponade resolved with emergency pericardiocentesis. Two patients required MVR after 1 and 4 years, respectively.
CONCLUSION: PTMC is the mainstay of rheumatic MS management in patients with suitable anatomy as most patients have excellent outcomes with long-term freedom from surgery, which has been the case in our single-center experience.

Citation: Ahmed A, et al. Percutaneous Transvenous Balloon Mitral Commissurotomy: A Single-Center Experience. Percutaneous Transvenous Balloon Mitral Commissurotomy: A Single-Center Experience. 2022; 23:127-132. doi: 10.4103/heartviews.heartviews_78_22

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36479163/
