PMID: 36473392
Title: The new landscape of differentially expression proteins in placenta tissues of gestational diabetes based on iTRAQ proteomics.

Abstract: INTRODUCTION: Gestational diabetes mellitus (GDM) refers to abnormal glucose tolerance that occurs or is firstly diagnosed during pregnancy. GDM is related to various adverse pregnancy outcomes, but GDM pathogeny has not been fully elucidated. Nevertheless, previous studies have observed that many proteins in the placentas of patients with GDM are dysregulated. The present study aimed to establish a novel differentially expressed protein (DEP) landscape of GDM and normal maternal placentas and to explore the possible connection between DEPs and GDM pathogenesis. This study provides new insights into the mechanism of GDM and should make an important contribution to the development of biomarkers.
METHODS: The morphological characteristics of the placenta were observed on 30 GDM and normal maternal placental tissues stained with haematoxylin and eosin. Isobaric tags for relative and absolute quantitation (iTRAQ) was used in the proteomics screening of the DEPs of the normal and GDM maternal placentas. Bioinformatics analysis was performed on the DEPs, and parallel reaction monitoring (PRM) was performed to verify the DEPs. Finally, the quantitative analysis of iTRAQ and PRM was verified by immunohistochemical assay.
RESULTS: A total of 68 DEPs in the GDM placenta were identified with iTRAQ proteomics experiment, comprising 21 up-regulated and 47 down-regulated DEPs. Bioinformatics analysis showed that the regulation of transport, catabolic process of non-coding RNA, cytoskeleton and cell binding were the most abundant Gene Ontology terms, and RNA degradation was an important pathway for significant enrichment. Protein-protein interaction network analysis showed that heterogeneous nuclear ribonucleoproteins A2/B1 (HNRNPA2B1), heterogeneous nuclear ribonucleoprotein A/B (HNRNPAB), heterogeneous nuclear ribonucleoprotein L (HNRNPL) and heterogeneous nuclear ribonucleoprotein A3 (HNRNPA3) were the cores of the up-regulated proteins. Band 3 anion transport protein (SLC4A1), spectrin beta chain erythrocytic (SPTB), ankyrin-1 (ANK1), spectrin beta chain non-erythrocytic 2 (SPTBN2), D-3-phosphoglycerate dehydrogenase (PHGDH) and exosome complex component RRP42 (EXOSC7) were the cores of the down-regulated proteins. These proteins are involved in the binding, splicing, processing, transport and degradation of RNA and in the formation and maintenance of the cytoskeleton. PRM verification results showed that seven proteins, namely, epiplakin (EPPK1), cold-inducible RNA-binding protein (CIRBP), HNRNPA2B1, HNRNPAB, HNRNPL, Ras-related protein Rab-21 (RAB21) and Ras-related protein Rab-3B (RAB3B), were up-regulated, whereas SPTB and SLC4A1 were down-regulated. The results of immunohistochemical assay also showed that the expression of five proteins, namely EPPK1, HNRNPA2B1, HNRNPAB, CIRBP and RAB21, were significantly higher in GDM placental tissues (P < 0.01). The GDM placentas showed changes in the morphological evaluation, including poor villous maturation, obvious increase in the number of syncytiotrophoblast nodules, thickening of the wall of dry villous arterioles with lumen stenosis, increased fibrinous exudation and excessive filling of villous interstitial vessels.
DISCUSSION: Differentially expressed proteins related to a variety of biological processes in the GDM placenta were found. Fourteen proteins, namely, HNRNPA2B1, HNRNPAB, HNRNPL, HNRNPA3, EPPK1, CIRBP, RAB21, RAB3B, SLC4A1, SPTB, ANK1, SPTBN2, PHGDH and EXOSC7, which were differentially expressed in the placenta, may play an important role in regulating the occurrence and development of gestational diabetes through multi-channel and multi-link regulation.

Citation: Ge L, et al. The new landscape of differentially expression proteins in placenta tissues of gestational diabetes based on iTRAQ proteomics. The new landscape of differentially expression proteins in placenta tissues of gestational diabetes based on iTRAQ proteomics. 2023; 131:36-48. doi: 10.1016/j.placenta.2022.11.012

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36473392/
