PMID: 36479575
Title: Percutaneous stent implantation for occluded central shunts in adults: A case report and review of current evidence.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Patients with cyanotic complex congenital heart defects (CHDs) commonly undergo palliation with interposition of systemic-to-pulmonary shunts (SPSs). These palliative shunts are rarely found in adults with CHDs and can be complicated with progressive obstruction or total occlusion during follow-up. The best treatment option for shunt re-permeabilization is challenging and case-oriented because most patients are high risk candidates for redo surgeries. We aimed to review the current evidence on percutaneous stent implantation to treat failed SPSs.
METHODS: We performed a comprehensive literature review on percutaneous stent implantation to treat failed and occluded SPSs. We also reported the case of a 33-year-old man with cyanotic CHD and a occluded central aorto-pulmonary shunt, who was successfully treated with percutaneous balloon dilatation and subsequently stent implantation at our institution.
RESULT: We identified and included 31 articles reporting on 150 patients and 165 stent implantations in failed SPSs. The age of patients at the time of stent implantation ranged from 6 days to 47 years. The time between the surgical shunt creation and transcatheter intervention ranged from 1 day to 17 years. Overall, 161/165 (97.5%) stent implantations were successful. The most common clinical presentation was cyanosis and decreased atrial oxygen saturations and the indication for stent implantation was shunt obstruction and stenosis.
CONCLUSION: This review highlights the benefits of endovascular stenting to permeabilize failed SPSs in children and adults with complex CHD who are classified as poor candidates for re-surgical repair.

Citation: Jenab Y, et al. Percutaneous stent implantation for occluded central shunts in adults: A case report and review of current evidence. Percutaneous stent implantation for occluded central shunts in adults: A case report and review of current evidence. 2022; 9:1032974. doi: 10.3389/fcvm.2022.1032974

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36479575/
