PMID: 36484703
Title: A direct wire pacing device for transcatheter heart valve and coronary interventions: a first-in-human, multicentre study of the Electroducer Sleeve.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Transcatheter aortic valve implantation (TAVI) and complex percutaneous coronary interventions (PCI) may require cardiac pacing during device delivery, generally requiring the insertion of a temporary pacing lead via an additional venous access site. The purpose-built Electroducer Sleeve device provides direct wire pacing without the need for a temporary venous pacemaker.
AIMS: This study assessed the safety of temporary cardiac pacing using the novel sleeve device during PCI.
METHODS: This was a multicentre, non-randomised, prospective, first-in-human, single-arm, pilot study. The primary endpoint was analysis of a safety outcome, defined as the occurrence of haematomas or bleeding complications at the device vascular access site. Secondary endpoints included analyses of effectiveness and qualitative outcomes.
RESULTS: Sixty patients (mean age: 77.9±9.6 years) from 4 centres in France were included: 39 (65%) underwent TAVI, and 21 (35%) underwent PCI. Procedures were performed using the sleeve with access through the radial (32 patients; 53.3%) or femoral arteries (26; 43.3%), or the femoral vein (2; 3.3%). Primary endpoint analysis revealed that 2 patients (3.3%) developed EArly Discharge After Transradial Stenting of CoronarY Arteries Study (EASY) grade I/Bleeding Academic Research Consortium (BARC) type I haematomas at the device access site. As a measure of effectiveness, a haemodynamic effect was observed after each spike delivery in 54 patients (90%). Analyses of other secondary endpoints showed that 2 patients (6.3%) presented asymptomatic radial artery occlusion. No allergies were reported.
CONCLUSIONS: This first-in-human trial using the Electroducer Sleeve indicated that this novel, purpose-built, temporary pacing device was safe and effective. Larger prospective studies are required to confirm these findings.

Citation: Wintzer-Wehekind J, et al. A direct wire pacing device for transcatheter heart valve and coronary interventions: a first-in-human, multicentre study of the Electroducer Sleeve. A direct wire pacing device for transcatheter heart valve and coronary interventions: a first-in-human, multicentre study of the Electroducer Sleeve. 2023; 18:1150-1555. doi: 10.4244/EIJ-D-22-00662

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36484703/
