PMID: 36481672
Title: Evaluating the Safety of Transcarotid Artery Revascularization under Local Anesthesia Prior to Coronary Artery Bypass Grafting Surgery.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Controversy exists regarding the timing of intervention for patients with critical coronary artery disease (CAD) awaiting coronary artery bypass and severe carotid artery stenosis (CAS). Transcarotid artery revascularization (TCAR) is a minimally invasive revascularization alternative through direct transcervical carotid access that minimizes the chance of arch manipulation and consequent antegrade embolic stroke rate. While the TCAR procedure can be performed under local anesthesia (monitored anesthesia care [MAC]) versus general anesthesia, the hemodynamic benefits of local anesthesia in patients with severe CAD are significant. Patients receiving staged TCAR-coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG) have high-risk cardiovascular disease and require accurate perioperative neurological and hemodynamic evaluation that can be safely provided with local anesthesia.
METHODS: In this retrospective single-center study, 14 patients were systematically identified to have undergone staged TCAR prior to CABG surgery from December 2018 to October 2021. All patients underwent TCAR with local anesthesia and minimal sedation. Relevant patient demographics, medical and surgical history, preoperative covariates, and type of anesthesia administered were obtained from patients' charts. CAD was confirmed by either carotid duplex imaging or computed tomography angiography (CTA) of the head/neck.
RESULTS: Staged TCAR-CABG interventions were performed on 14 patients (64% male; mean age 65.0 years). No major adverse cardiac events were reported including transient ischemic attack (TIA), stroke, myocardial infarction (MI), or TCAR-related death in the interval between their TCAR and CABG as well as in a 12-month follow-up period. One patient required to return to the operating room (OR) for evacuation of a neck hematoma.
CONCLUSIONS: This study demonstrated high success rate of TCAR under local anesthesia prior to CABG (100%) with no incidence of perioperative stroke, MI, or death at 1-month, 6-month, and 12-month follow-up intervals. The authors support the use of staged TCAR-CABG with local anesthesia as a safe and promising treatment option for patients with high-grade cardiac disease, high risk of stroke, or multiple comorbidities that preclude a carotid endarterectomy (CEA).

Citation: Vyas Y, et al. Evaluating the Safety of Transcarotid Artery Revascularization under Local Anesthesia Prior to Coronary Artery Bypass Grafting Surgery. Evaluating the Safety of Transcarotid Artery Revascularization under Local Anesthesia Prior to Coronary Artery Bypass Grafting Surgery. 2023; 91:176-181. doi: 10.1016/j.avsg.2022.11.018

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36481672/
