PMID: 36493710
Title: Recognizing dialysis access steal syndrome with central vein stenosis as arteriovenous fistula complication: A case report.

Abstract: INTRODUCTION: Ischemic consequences of hemodialysis arteriovenous (AV) access are infrequent, yet they can cause substantial limb impairment or even loss. Ischemia can be caused by many factors, but the most common etiology is reduced blood supply to the distal extremities due to blood flow through the AV fistula (AVF) or AV graft. We reported a case of dialysis access steal syndrome (DASS) in a diabetes mellitus patient.
CASE REPORT: A 69-year-old diabetic man with left brachiocephalic AVF on his left upper arm has main complaint of left-hand pain, swelling, and coldness. There are also trophic darkening changes in the distal first, third, and fourth fingers. A duplex doppler examination revealed a normal functional AV shunt with bidirectional distal retrograde inflow. There was also significant stenosis at axillary vein. So, a diagnosis of DASS with suspicion of distal anastomosis stenosis at axillary vein was made. The patient underwent digital amputation and surgical plication of the AV shunt. He also underwent percutaneous transluminal angioplasty at the level of axillary. After 10 days of care, he was later discharged.
CLINICAL DISCUSSION: DASS is life and limb-threatening clinical disorder. Not only does the discomfort make it difficult for the patient to tolerate hemodialysis, but the ischemia can cause tissue necrosis and the eventual loss of fingers and possibly the patient's life. Doppler ultrasonography is a non-invasive technique that provides important information about vascular anatomy and hemodynamics. Aggressive treatment, including limb surgery and intensive blood glucose regulation, will result in favourable results.
CONCLUSIONS: DASS is a rare condition usually encountered in hemodialysis patients with AVF. Proper diagnosis and management are needed to get an optimal outcome for the patient.

Citation: Suwanto D, et al. Recognizing dialysis access steal syndrome with central vein stenosis as arteriovenous fistula complication: A case report. Recognizing dialysis access steal syndrome with central vein stenosis as arteriovenous fistula complication: A case report. 2023; 102:107824. doi: 10.1016/j.ijscr.2022.107824

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36493710/
