PMID: 36495542
Title: Complementary Utility of Intravascular Lithotripsy With Atherectomy for Severely Calcified Coronary Stenoses in Contemporary Practice.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: The effectiveness and safety of a contemporary combined approach that incorporates the novel intravascular lithotripsy (IVL) technology into conventional tools including atherectomy have yet to be studied.
METHODS: We retrospectively included consecutive patients who underwent percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) with IVL from March 2021 to February 2022. Effectiveness (residual stenosis of <30%) and safety outcomes (procedural complications and major adverse cardiovascular event [MACE] defined as a composite of all-cause death, myocardial infarction, or target vessel revascularization) were compared between patients undergoing IVL with and without atherectomy.
RESULTS: A total of 109 patients underwent IVL, of whom 33 patients (30.3%) were treated with both IVL and atherectomy and had higher risk features including reduced cardiac function and more frequent use of mechanical circulatory support. Angiographic success for calcified de novo lesions was achieved in 85.7% and 90.6% of the combined and non-atherectomy groups, respectively (P=.49). Each group had one case of coronary perforation (P=.52) while major dissection occurred in 2 cases of calcific stent underexpansion in the combined group (6.1% vs 0%; P=.09). Thirty-day MACE occurred in 4.8% of patients including 3 deaths in the atherectomy group and 1 cardiac death and 1 myocardial infarction in the non-atherectomy group (P=.16).
CONCLUSION: Procedural success and complications were similar in patients undergoing IVL with and without atherectomy when treating calcified de novo lesions. Those who required a combined approach represented a high-risk population with high mortality, suggesting that a multidisciplinary approach is needed to optimize case selection and care beyond PCI.

Citation: Takahashi T, et al. Complementary Utility of Intravascular Lithotripsy With Atherectomy for Severely Calcified Coronary Stenoses in Contemporary Practice. Complementary Utility of Intravascular Lithotripsy With Atherectomy for Severely Calcified Coronary Stenoses in Contemporary Practice. 2023; 35:E46-E54. doi: 10.25270/jic/22.00310

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36495542/
