PMID: 36507727
Title: The "In-Parallel" Technique for Awake, Bilateral Simultaneous Minimally Invasive Transforaminal Lumbar Interbody Fusion and Multilevel Lumbar Decompression.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Minimally invasive transforaminal lumbar interbody fusion (MIS TLIF) and MIS lumbar decompression have been successfully undertaken in the absence of general anesthesia in well-selected patients. By leveraging spinal anesthesia, surgeons may safely conduct surgeries on one- or two-level lumbar pathology. However, surgeries on more extensive pathology have not yet been described, because of concerns about the duration of efficacy of spinal anesthetic in the awake patient.
OBJECTIVE: To report the use of a novel awake technique for "in parallel," simultaneous lumbar spinal surgery on three-segment pathology.
METHODS: We describe concurrent performance of a dual microscopic, navigated MIS TLIF and MIS two-level decompression, using a combination of liposomal bupivacaine erector spinae block in conjunction with a spinal anesthetic.
RESULTS: We show that a left-sided, two-level MIS tubular microscopic decompression combined with a concurrent right-sided, transfacet MIS TLIF via a tubular microscopic approach was well tolerated in an 87-year-old patient with multilevel lumbar stenosis with a mobile spondylolisthesis.
CONCLUSION: We provide the first description of a dual-surgeon approach for minimally invasive spine surgery. This "in-parallel" technique-reliant on 2, independent spine surgeons-may aid in the performance of surgeries previously considered too extensive, given the time constraints of regional anesthesia and can be successfully applied to patients who otherwise may not be candidates for general anesthesia.

Citation: Chan AK, et al. The "In-Parallel" Technique for Awake, Bilateral Simultaneous Minimally Invasive Transforaminal Lumbar Interbody Fusion and Multilevel Lumbar Decompression. The "In-Parallel" Technique for Awake, Bilateral Simultaneous Minimally Invasive Transforaminal Lumbar Interbody Fusion and Multilevel Lumbar Decompression. 2023; 24:e160-e169. doi: 10.1227/ons.0000000000000517

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36507727/
