PMID: 36508853
Title: The effect of single and dual-task balance exercises on balance performance in older adult patients with degenerative lumbar spinal stenosis: A randomized controlled trial.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Lumbar Spinal Stenosis (LSS) may present with balance disorder and risk of falling as a result of posture problems. The aim of the present study was to compare the effects of single-task and dual-task balance exercise programs on balance performance and activity-specific balance confidence in adults with LSS.
METHODS: Forty-three patients with LSS over the age of 65 were randomly divided into 2 groups as single-task balance training (group 1, n=21) and double-task balance training (group 2, n=22). Patients in both groups were given exercises by an experienced physiotherapist. Only balance exercises were applied to Group 1 under single task conditions, and Group 2 performed balance exercises accompanied by predetermined cognitive tasks. Patients were evaluated with Berg balance scale (BBS), timed up and go (TUG) test, and 10-meter walking test for single and dual tasks, Tinetti balance and gait test, single leg stance test, and activities-specific balance confidence (ABC) scale at baseline and at the end of four weeks. The Mann-Whitney U Test was used to compare the pre- and post-treatment differences in the groups.
RESULTS: Demographic data did not show any statistical significance between the two groups. When the pre- and post-treatment differences of the 10-meter walk test were compared between the single-task training group and the dual-task training group, it was observed that there was a difference in favor of the dual-task training group in the 10-meter walk test was performed separately in the single-task and dual-task training group (p < 0.05). When the differences before and after treatment were compared, no difference was observed in the BBS, TUG, Tinetti balance and gait test, single leg stance test, and ABC scale data between the groups (p > 0.05).
CONCLUSION: Single- and dual-task exercises significantly improved static balance, dynamic balance, and activity-specific balance confidence in older adults with spinal stenosis. However, the dual-task exercise program was superior to the single-task exercise program in improving 10-meter walk test scores and walking speed, with or without cognitive dual-tasking.

Citation: Karagül S and Kartaloğlu IF. The effect of single and dual-task balance exercises on balance performance in older adult patients with degenerative lumbar spinal stenosis: A randomized controlled trial. The effect of single and dual-task balance exercises on balance performance in older adult patients with degenerative lumbar spinal stenosis: A randomized controlled trial. 2023; 49:133-138. doi: 10.1016/j.gerinurse.2022.12.002

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36508853/
