PMID: 36505533
Title: A survey on the effect of adding aspirin to anti-migraine drugs on the severity of headache in patients with chronic migraine headaches with lateral venous sinus stenosis in MRV.

Abstract: INTRODUCTION: One of the probable etiologies raised in patients with chronic migraine headaches is stenosis of the lateral venous sinuses of the brain, which is detectable using magnetic resonance venography (MRV). In this study, we decided to observe the effect of adding aspirin to anti-migraine medicines on the severity of headache in patients with chronic migraine headaches with lateral venous sinus stenosis in MRV.
METHODS: The study was a double-blind randomized clinical trial. Patients were included in the study in two groups including 30 people. The first group was treated with propranolol and nortriptyline, and the second group was treated with propranolol, nortriptyline, and aspirin. The severity of headache, number of headaches during one month, and duration of a headache before treatment and one, two, and three months after treatment were examined. Data were analyzed utilizing SPSS software version 19 and statistical tests like t-test, Chi-squared test, Paired t-test, and repeated measure.
RESULTS: The results showed that the mean severity of headache in the second group was significantly lower than the first group two months after treatment (P = 0.003) and three months after treatment (P = 0.002). Additionally, the number of headaches (P = 0.001) and duration of headache (P = 0.043) were significantly lower in the second group than the first group in the first three months after treatment. No statistically significant difference was observed between the frequency distribution of nausea/vomiting in the two groups.
CONCLUSION: The addition of aspirin to anti-migraine medicines is effective in improving the severity of headache in patients with migraine with lateral venous sinus stenosis of the brain.

Citation: Shafiee M, et al. A survey on the effect of adding aspirin to anti-migraine drugs on the severity of headache in patients with chronic migraine headaches with lateral venous sinus stenosis in MRV. A survey on the effect of adding aspirin to anti-migraine drugs on the severity of headache in patients with chronic migraine headaches with lateral venous sinus stenosis in MRV. 2022; 11:5626-5632. doi: 10.4103/jfmpc.jfmpc_537_22

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36505533/
