PMID: 36506767
Title: Surgical repair of unilateral absence of pulmonary artery in children with pulmonary hypertension: a single-center retrospective study.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: The early diagnosis of unilateral absence of pulmonary artery (UAPA) in children offers an opportunity for effective intervention. Due to the lack of clinical evidence, a consensus regarding surgical treatment has yet to be reported. The aim of this study is to evaluate the effectiveness and safety of pulmonary artery (PA) reconstruction with a "two-segment" technique to repair UAPA in patients with pulmonary hypertension.
METHODS: Intraoperatively, the ligamentum arteriosum connecting the innominate artery and distal PA was dissected and occluded. A conduit created by fresh autologous pericardium formed the first "segment" of the neo-PA. The second "segment" was a Gore vascular graft with integrated rings anastomosed between the proximal end of the pericardial conduit and the main pulmonary artery (MPA).
RESULTS: A total of five consecutive patients were included, and the absent PA was successfully reconstructed using the "two-segment" technique in all patients. Following revascularization, the direct measurement of the pressure in MPA during the operation showed that the average mean pulmonary artery pressure (mPAP) decreased from 31.3±16.0 to 16.8±4.2 mmHg (P=0.047). The average mPAP/radial mean arterial pressure (rMAP) ratio decreased from 0.59±0.27 preoperatively to 0.30±0.10 postoperatively (P=0.028). The mean follow-up period was 18.85±4.67 months. The median diameter of the reconstructed PA (pericardial segment) measured by transthoracic echocardiography (TTE) was 6.1 mm. One patient safely underwent a redo operation to repair relative stenosis in the neo-PA.
CONCLUSIONS: Early PA reconstruction may effectively alleviate pulmonary hypertension in children with UAPA. The "two-segment" technique is safe and can facilitate potential redo pulmonary arterioplasty. Anticoagulation and antiplatelet therapy, as well as frequent follow-up, is required after the operation.

Citation: Yan X, et al. Surgical repair of unilateral absence of pulmonary artery in children with pulmonary hypertension: a single-center retrospective study. Surgical repair of unilateral absence of pulmonary artery in children with pulmonary hypertension: a single-center retrospective study. 2022; 11:1813-1822. doi: 10.21037/tp-22-491

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36506767/
