PMID: 36503589
Title: Cardiovascular magnetic resonance pulmonary perfusion for guidance of interventional treatment of pulmonary vein stenosis.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Pulmonary vein (PV) stenosis represents a rare but serious complication following radiofrequency ablation of atrial fibrillation with a comprehensive diagnosis including morphological stenosis grading together with the assessment of its functional consequences being imperative within the relatively narrow window for therapeutic intervention. The present study determined the clinical utility of a combined, single-session cardiovascular magnetic resonance (CMR) imaging protocol integrating pulmonary perfusion and PV angiographic assessment for pre-procedural planning and follow-up of patients referred for interventional PV stenosis treatment.
METHODS: CMR examinations (cine imaging, dynamic pulmonary perfusion, three-dimensional PV angiography) were performed in 32 consecutive patients prior to interventional treatment of PV stenosis and at 1-day and 3-months follow-up. Degree of PV stenosis was visually determined on CMR angiography; visual and quantitative analysis of pulmonary perfusion imaging was done for all five lung lobes.
RESULTS: Interventional treatment of PV stenosis achieved an acute procedural success rate of 90%. Agreement between visually evaluated pulmonary perfusion imaging and the presence or absence of a ≥ 70% PV stenosis was nearly perfect (Cohen's kappa, 0.96). ROC analysis demonstrated high discriminatory power of quantitative pulmonary perfusion measurements for the detection of ≥ 70% PV stenosis (AUC for time-to-peak enhancement, 0.96; wash-in rate, 0.93; maximum enhancement, 0.90). Quantitative pulmonary perfusion analysis proved a very large treatment effect attributable to successful PV revascularization already after 1 day.
CONCLUSION: Integration of CMR pulmonary perfusion imaging into the clinical work-up of patients with PV stenosis allowed for efficient peri-procedural stratification and follow-up evaluation of revascularization success.

Citation: Jahnke C, et al. Cardiovascular magnetic resonance pulmonary perfusion for guidance of interventional treatment of pulmonary vein stenosis. Cardiovascular magnetic resonance pulmonary perfusion for guidance of interventional treatment of pulmonary vein stenosis. 2022; 24:70. doi: 10.1186/s12968-022-00904-x

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36503589/
