PMID: 36503064
Title: The cardiac computed tomography-derived extracellular volume fraction predicts patient outcomes and left ventricular mass reductions after transcatheter aortic valve implantation for aortic stenosis.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Transcatheter aortic valve implantation (TAVI) improved outcome of patients with severe aortic valve stenosis (AS). Myocardial fibrosis is associated with AS-related pathological left ventricular (LV) remodeling and predicts cardiovascular mortality after TAVI. The present study aimed to investigate the impact of preoperative extracellular volume (ECV) assessed by computed tomography (CT) on left ventricular mass (LVM) regression and clinical outcomes in severe AS patients after TAVI.
METHODS: We examined 71 consecutive severe AS patients who underwent CT with ECV determination before TAVI. ECV was calculated as the ratio of the change in Hounsfield units in the myocardium and LV blood before and after contrast administration, multiplied by (1-hematocrit). Delayed scan was performed at 5 min after contrast injection. Echocardiography was performed before and 6 months after TAVI. The primary endpoint was heart failure (HF) hospitalization after TAVI. Patients were divided into two subgroups according to the median value of global ECV with 32 % (Low-ECV group: n = 35, and High-ECV group: n = 36).
RESULTS: No significant differences were observed in background characteristics between the 2 groups. However, the preoperative LV ejection fraction and LVM index were similar between the 2 groups, the Low-ECV group had greater LVM index reduction than the High-CV group after 6 months (p < 0.001). Kaplan-Meier curves demonstrated that the High-ECV group had significantly higher rate of HF hospitalization than the Low-ECV group (p = 0.016). In addition, multivariate analyses identified high global ECV as an independent predictor of HF hospitalization (HR 10.8, 95 % confidence interval 1.36 to 84.8, p = 0.024).
CONCLUSION: The low preoperative ECV assessed by CT is associated with the greater LVM regression, and predict better outcome in AS patients after TAVI.

Citation: Ishiyama M, et al. The cardiac computed tomography-derived extracellular volume fraction predicts patient outcomes and left ventricular mass reductions after transcatheter aortic valve implantation for aortic stenosis. The cardiac computed tomography-derived extracellular volume fraction predicts patient outcomes and left ventricular mass reductions after transcatheter aortic valve implantation for aortic stenosis. 2023; 81:476-484. doi: 10.1016/j.jjcc.2022.12.002

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36503064/
