PMID: 36504183
Title: Post-traumatic multifocal abdominal splenosis. The role of the clinical history. Case report and review of literature.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Splenosis is a benign clinical condition caused by the heterotopic autotransplantation of spleen's tissue tipically occurring after spleen rupture. Splenosis may be asymptomatic and found accidentally. When signs and symptoms occur they are due to mass effect or bleeding of the splenic nodules.
CASE REPORT: 74-years-old male presenting with intestinal sub-occlusion and past medical history of post-traumatic splenectomy at 18-years-old. Based on TC findings of multiple hyperenhanced solid lesions located in greater omentum, mesentery and parietal peritoneum of right pelvic walls, the presumptive diagnosis was peritoneal carcinomatosis of unknown primary site. Stenosis of a ileum loop in the right pelvis, with dilatation and faecal stasis of the upstream loops proximal, required surgical procedure. At the opening of the peritoneal cavity the multifocal lesions varied in size, were reddish blu color, sessile, lobulate and with strong adhesions to the visceral peritoneum. Omentectomy and the blunt exicision of 3 extraparietal solid nodules, which had tenacious adhesions with stenotic ileum loop serosa for the lenght of 8 cm, were performed. Histopathological examination of surgical specimens showed splenic tissue with red pulp.
CONCLUSION: CT scan usually do not allow to make a certain diagnosis of splenosis, so the clinical history of splenic trauma or splenectomy, positive in all cases reported in literature, represent the key in the diagnostic pathway of splenosis. Management should be conservative as much as possible nonetheless in abdominal splenosis the surgical approach should be chosen for the symptomatic patients who present abdominal pain, occlusion or bleeding.
KEY WORDS: Abdominal, Splenosis, Spleen, Surgery.

Citation: Spaziani E, et al. Post-traumatic multifocal abdominal splenosis. The role of the clinical history. Case report and review of literature. Post-traumatic multifocal abdominal splenosis. The role of the clinical history. Case report and review of literature. 2022; 11:(unknown pages).

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36504183/
