PMID: 36507061
Title: Conception following successful repair of two previous failed attempts at repair of partial transverse vaginal septum diagnosed after marital union: A case report.

Abstract: Transverse vaginal septum is a congenital anomaly in which a membrane obstructs the vagina. This can be partial or complete in type. Although rare, it presents peculiar challenges in symptomatology, diagnosis, and ultimate management. To our knowledge, we are the first to report a shortest vaginoplasty-conception interval following successful repair of previously failed repair of partial transverse vaginal septum. A 28-year-old Nigerian married nulliparous lady who presented to us with history of inability of penile-vaginal penetration with the presence of normal menstrual flow after two previous failed attempts at repair. She had a vaginoplasty with placement of a vaginal mold to prevent stenosis. She was subsequently able to have successful sexual intercourse and achieved pregnancy after 2 months, without recurrence of vaginal stenosis. When transverse vaginal septum is encountered in a married nullipara, a thorough clinical evaluation of the viability and feasibility of a vaginoplasty should be made during the first surgery. If repeated failed repair occurs, as in our case, we recommend meticulous and experienced surgical attention from the outset. The originality in this report lies in the very short period between repair and successful conception. Thus, we obtained satisfactory short-term clinical outcome of successful conception at the 2 months follow-up.

Citation: Eleje GU, et al. Conception following successful repair of two previous failed attempts at repair of partial transverse vaginal septum diagnosed after marital union: A case report. Conception following successful repair of two previous failed attempts at repair of partial transverse vaginal septum diagnosed after marital union: A case report. 2022; 10:2050313X221141532. doi: 10.1177/2050313X221141532

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36507061/
