PMID: 36508304
Title: A case of ureteral stenosis due to ureteritis probably associated with rheumatoid arthritis.

Abstract: Ureteritis associated with the immunological disorder is rarely reported, and most cases in this category are small vessel vasculitis and immunoglobulin G4-related disease. Rheumatoid arthritis (RA)-associated ureteritis is uncommon, and underlying aetiology is unclear. We present a patient with ureteritis who had a medical history of RA and was successfully treated with steroids and immunosuppressant. A 49-year-old woman who had been treated for RA and atopic dermatitis suffered from gross haematuria for 5 successive days. Contrast-enhanced computed tomography (CT) showed right-dominant upper urinary tract dilatation with enhanced thickened wall. The haematuria continued accompanied with intermittent right back and lower abdominal pain, and the following CT image taken after 3 months presented the progression to bilateral hydronephrosis. Ureteral stents were placed, and antibiotic therapy was introduced for obstructive pyelonephritis. Ureterocystoscopy and following biopsy from the upper ureteral tract showed a chronic inflammatory change in the histopathology, and we finally considered the stenosing ureteritis to be caused by immune-mediated mechanism related to RA. After starting steroid therapy with methotrexate, therapeutic response was obtained to remove the stents. In the cases of ureteritis or ureteral stenosis of unknown aetiology with a medical history of immunological disorders, we should consider the underlying immune-activated state and try to test contrast-enhanced CT and histological examination before performing a surgical procedure. After excluding the common causes of ureteritis or ureteral stenosis, these tests would support the appropriate diagnosis.

Citation: Nagamura N and Sugitani T. A case of ureteral stenosis due to ureteritis probably associated with rheumatoid arthritis. A case of ureteral stenosis due to ureteritis probably associated with rheumatoid arthritis. 2023; 7:335-339. doi: 10.1093/mrcr/rxac071

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36508304/
