PMID: 36503218
Title: Ultrasonic Osteotome Assisted Posterior Endoscopic Cervical Foraminotomy in the Treatment of Cervical Spondylotic Radiculopathy Due to Osseous Foraminal Stenosis.

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: To investigate the efficacy and safety of the posterior endoscopic cervical foraminotomy (PECF) using ultrasonic osteotome for the treatment of cervical osseous foraminal stenosis，focusing on introduction of the advantages of ultrasonic osteotome in partial pediculectomy and ventral osteophyte resection in PECF.
METHODS: Nineteen patients with cervical osseous foraminal stenosis who underwent PECF using ultrasonic osteotome in our institution between April 2018 and April 2021 were enrolled in this study. All the patients were followed up more than 12 months. The patients' medical data, as well as pre- and postoperative radiologic findings were thoroughly investigated. The visual analogue score (VAS), Japanese Orthopaedic Association (JOA) score, cervical dysfunction index (Neck disability index, NDI), and modified MacNab criteria were used to assess the surgical efficacy.
RESULTS: All the patients were successfully treated with PECF using ultrasonic osteotome. The pre- and postoperative VAS, NDI, and JOA scores were significantly improved (p<0.05). According to the modified MacNab criteria, 17 patients were assessed as "excellent", two patients were assessed as "good" at the last follow-up. There was no dura tear, nerve root damage, incision infection, neck deformity, or other complications.
CONCLUSION: Adequate nerve root decompression can be accomplished successfully with the help of ultrasonic osteotome in PECF, which has the advantage of reducing the probability of damage to the nerve root and dura mater, in addition to the original merits of endoscopic surgery.

Citation: Jiang Y, et al. Ultrasonic Osteotome Assisted Posterior Endoscopic Cervical Foraminotomy in the Treatment of Cervical Spondylotic Radiculopathy Due to Osseous Foraminal Stenosis. Ultrasonic Osteotome Assisted Posterior Endoscopic Cervical Foraminotomy in the Treatment of Cervical Spondylotic Radiculopathy Due to Osseous Foraminal Stenosis. 2023; 66:426-437. doi: 10.3340/jkns.2022.0233

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36503218/
