PMID: 36514933
Title: Effectiveness of percutaneous epidural neuroplasty using a balloon catheter in patients with chronic spinal stenosis accompanying mild spondylolisthesis: a longitudinal cohort study.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Degenerative lumbar spondylolisthesis (DLS) is frequently associated with lumbar spinal stenosis (LSS) and conservative treatments such as epidural steroid injection do not have long-term benefits in LSS patients with DLS. This study evaluated the effectiveness of percutaneous epidural neuroplasty using a balloon catheter in patients with LSS and DLS.
METHODS: Patients' sex, age, body mass index, diabetes, hypertension, stenosis grading, pain duration, location, pain intensity, and medications were retrieved from electronic medical records. At 1, 3, and 6 months following the procedure, data on pain severity, medication usage, and physical functional status were analyzed. A generalized estimating equations model was used at the six-month follow-up. Patients were divided into those with DLS (the spondylolisthesis group) and those without DLS (the no spondylolisthesis group) to evaluate whether the effects of percutaneous epidural neuroplasty using a balloon catheter were different.
RESULTS: A total of 826 patients were included (spondylolisthesis: 433 patients, 52.4%; no spondylolisthesis: 393 patients, 47.6%). Age, body mass index, hypertension, pain location, and stenosis grading were statistically different between the two groups. The generalized estimating equations analyses with unadjusted and adjusted estimation revealed a significant improvement in the estimated mean numerical rating scale of pain intensities compared to that at baseline in both groups (P < 0.001). Any adverse events that occurred were minor and temporary.
CONCLUSIONS: Percutaneous epidural neuroplasty using a balloon catheter may be an alternative treatment option for patients with chronic LSS, regardless of accompanying DLS, who have had failed conservative management.

Citation: Karm MH, et al. Effectiveness of percutaneous epidural neuroplasty using a balloon catheter in patients with chronic spinal stenosis accompanying mild spondylolisthesis: a longitudinal cohort study. Effectiveness of percutaneous epidural neuroplasty using a balloon catheter in patients with chronic spinal stenosis accompanying mild spondylolisthesis: a longitudinal cohort study. 2023; 36:184-194. doi: 10.3344/kjp.22289

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36514933/
