PMID: 36512253
Title: Exploring Brachytherapy Discharge Educational Needs of Gynecological Cancer Patients.

Abstract: Brachytherapy (BT) plays a fundamental role in the treatment of gynecological cancers. Patient education for vaginal self-management and dilator use post-BT involves an interdisciplinary team of healthcare professionals (HCPs) and there is a paucity of post-BT education guidelines. Our objective was to determine the educational needs of gynecological cancer patients surrounding vaginal self-management post-BT and to determine enablers and barriers to the provision of education by HCPs. This cross-sectional study recruited gynecological oncology patients receiving external beam radiotherapy and BT for curative intent. Patients completed a questionnaire to assess their vaginal self-management educational needs, preferred education modality, and desired timing of post-BT education. HCPs were invited to complete a questionnaire to identify enablers and barriers to providing BT education. Twenty patients and 53 HCPs participated. All patients rated each topic as very important/important with information about preventing vaginal stenosis as the most important overall (89%). When asked about topics they addressed during BT education, most HCPs reported that "explaining what vaginal stenosis is and the negative effects of stenosis" was always discussed with patients (N = 37/49, 77%). Barriers to providing post-BT education, including the patients' language and culture, as well as enablers, such as the use of written resources and tools for patients, were identified. Despite a high level of engagement, current education surrounding vaginal self-management post-BT may be inadequate.

Citation: Julius A, et al. Exploring Brachytherapy Discharge Educational Needs of Gynecological Cancer Patients. Exploring Brachytherapy Discharge Educational Needs of Gynecological Cancer Patients. 2023; 38:1200-1207. doi: 10.1007/s13187-022-02249-6

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36512253/
