PMID: 36510294
Title: Sex-dependent expression of neutrophil gelatinase-associated lipocalin in aortic stenosis.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Accumulating evidence suggest the existence of sex-related differences in the pathogenesis of aortic stenosis (AS) with inflammation, oxidative stress, fibrosis and calcification being over-represented in men. Neutrophil gelatinase-associated lipocalin (NGAL) is expressed in a myriad of tissues and cell types, and it is associated with acute and chronic pathological processes comprising inflammation, fibrosis or calcification. Sex-dependent signatures have been evidenced for NGAL which expression has been associated predominantly in males to metabolic and cardiovascular disorders. We aimed to analyse sex-related differences of NGAL in AS and its role in the inflammatory and fibrocalcific progression of AS.
METHODS AND RESULTS: 220 (60.45% men) patients with severe AS elective for surgical aortic valve (AV) replacement were recruited. Immunohistochemistry revealed higher expression of NGAL in calcific areas of AVs and that was validated by qPCR in in 65 (60% men) donors. Valve interstitial cells (VICs) were a source of NGAL in these samples. Proteome profiler analyses evidenced higher expression of NGAL in men compared to women, and that was further validated by ELISA. NGAL expression in the AV was correlated with inflammation, oxidative stress, and osteogenic markers, as well as calcium score. The expression of NGAL, both intracellular and secreted (sNGAL), was significantly deregulated only in calcifying male-derived VICs. Depletion of intracellular NGAL in calcifying male-derived VICs was associated with pro-inflammatory profiles, dysbalanced matrix remodelling and pro-osteogenic profiles. Conversely, exogenous NGAL mediated inflammatory and dysbalanced matrix remodelling in calcifying VICs, and all that was prevented by the pharmacological blockade of NGAL.
CONCLUSIONS: Owing to the over-expression of NGAL, the AV from men may be endowed with higher expression of inflammatory, oxidative stress, matrix remodelling and osteogenic markers supporting the progression of calcific AS phenotypes. The expression of NGAL in the VIC emerges as a potential therapeutic checkpoint, with its effects being potentially reverted by the pharmacological blockade of extracellular NGAL.

Citation: Jover E, et al. Sex-dependent expression of neutrophil gelatinase-associated lipocalin in aortic stenosis. Sex-dependent expression of neutrophil gelatinase-associated lipocalin in aortic stenosis. 2022; 13:71. doi: 10.1186/s13293-022-00480-w

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36510294/
