PMID: 36517979
Title: Acute gastric twist after laparoscopic sleeve gastrectomy: A case series.

Abstract: INTRODUCTION: Laparoscopic sleeve gastrectomy (LSG) has become the most performed bariatric procedure. Like any surgical intervention, LSG is not free from complications. One of the rarest complications is gastric sleeve stenosis, caused by either stricture or axial rotation of the stomach (twisted gastric tube). There is no consensus on the management of such a complication due to several underlying mechanisms and different timings of presentation.
METHODS: Between July 1, 2021 and December 31, 2021, we encountered three cases of acute gastric twist following LSG, and all of them required surgical intervention. All data (imaging results, operative reports and videos, discharge summaries, etc.) were retrospectively collected and analyzed after obtaining patients' informed consent.
RESULTS: We report three cases of acute gastric twist post-sleeve gastrectomy, diagnosed by different imaging modalities which showed localized distal gastric twist. All patients underwent exploratory laparoscopy which confirmed gastric sleeve twist. Gastropexy by fixation of the gastric tube to the transverse mesocolon was done in the first case which presented a localized partial distal twist, and a gastro-jejunal anastomosis proximal to the gastric twist was performed in the two other cases to bypass the obstruction. All of them had excellent postoperative results and a total symptomatic resolution.
CONCLUSION: We considered gastric tube fixation to the transverse mesocolon as a feasible option when the twist is local and partial. We also presented a new surgical modality to treat local complete distal gastric twist by a single gastro-jejunal latero-lateral anastomosis proximal to the twist, which seems safe and effective. The best method to treat such a complication is to prevent it by giving special attention to the different technical aspects of LSG.

Citation: Chamaa B, et al. Acute gastric twist after laparoscopic sleeve gastrectomy: A case series. Acute gastric twist after laparoscopic sleeve gastrectomy: A case series. 2023; 16:336-342. doi: 10.1111/ases.13152

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36517979/
