PMID: 36527218
Title: Systematic Review of Current Literature on Clinical Outcomes of Uniportal Interlaminar Contralateral Endoscopic Lumbar Foraminotomy for Foraminal Stenosis.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Uniportal interlaminar contralateral endoscopic lumbar foraminotomy (ICELF) aims to achieve decompression of lumbar spinal stenosis in the contralateral lateral recess and foraminal and extraforaminal regions of the same segment. This technique is performed under normal saline irrigation using an endoscope with optical lens magnification close to the targeted stenotic segment and has the potential of lower incidence of exiting nerve root dorsal root ganglion irritation.
METHODS: A systematic review of the ICELF technique was conducted from March 2000 to March 2022. Articles were selected with Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic Reviews and Meta-Analysis guidelines. Eligibility of studies was independently determined by 2 reviewers, and disagreements were resolved by a third author.
RESULTS: Eight retrospective cohort studies comprising 194 patients with foraminal stenosis who underwent uniportal ICELF were selected for systematic review. Mean age range was 62-79 years, and surgical duration was 48-73.5 minutes. There was significant improvement in Oswestry Disability Index and visual analog scale leg pain score in the included studies. Four studies met the minimum clinically significant difference for leg pain, with visual analog scale improved >5 points and Oswestry Disability Index improved >8.2 points. Four studies reported a majority of the operated patients with good or excellent outcomes following surgery, with a low rate of complications in the studies selected.
CONCLUSIONS: There is low-level evidence that ICELF when performed by an experienced spinal endoscopic surgeon is effective in providing pain relief and improved function with low rate of complications in select patients.

Citation: Kim HS, et al. Systematic Review of Current Literature on Clinical Outcomes of Uniportal Interlaminar Contralateral Endoscopic Lumbar Foraminotomy for Foraminal Stenosis. Systematic Review of Current Literature on Clinical Outcomes of Uniportal Interlaminar Contralateral Endoscopic Lumbar Foraminotomy for Foraminal Stenosis. 2022; 168:392-397. doi: 10.1016/j.wneu.2022.04.130

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36527218/
