PMID: 36527220
Title: Indications, Contraindications, and Complications of Biportal Endoscopic Decompressive Surgery for the Treatment of Lumbar Stenosis: A Systematic Review.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Biportal endoscopic spine surgery is gaining popularity in managing degenerative lumbar diseases and has optimal indications and contraindications. The perioperative complications related to the biportal endoscopic approach affect the postoperative outcomes. Therefore, this study aimed to review the indications, contraindications, and complications of biportal endoscopic decompression for lumbar stenosis.
METHODS: For this systematic review, articles on biportal endoscopic decompressive surgery for lumbar stenosis, including central, lateral recess and foraminal stenoses, were searched for and reviewed. Additionally, the complications, indications, and contraindications of biportal endoscopic surgery for lumbar stenosis were reviewed.
RESULTS: Forty-one articles were included in this study. The indications for biportal endoscopic decompression are central lumbar stenosis, central stenosis with lipomatosis, lateral recess stenosis, foraminal stenosis, and the far-out syndrome. The contraindications include trauma, infection, tumor, instability, high-grade spondylolisthesis, isthmic spondylolisthesis, and severe scoliosis. Perioperative complications are typically minor; major complications include durotomy, epidural hematoma, incomplete decompression, infection, facet joint injury, neural injury, increased epidural pressure, and postoperative instability.
CONCLUSIONS: Favorable indications for a biportal endoscopic approach are central lumbar, lateral recess, foraminal, extraforaminal stenoses, and the Bertolotti syndrome. Incidental durotomy and postoperative epidural hematomas are common complications of biportal endoscopic decompression.

Citation: Heo DH, et al. Indications, Contraindications, and Complications of Biportal Endoscopic Decompressive Surgery for the Treatment of Lumbar Stenosis: A Systematic Review. Indications, Contraindications, and Complications of Biportal Endoscopic Decompressive Surgery for the Treatment of Lumbar Stenosis: A Systematic Review. 2022; 168:411-420. doi: 10.1016/j.wneu.2022.09.023

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36527220/
