PMID: 36523136
Title: Cardiac Arrest Following Torsades de Pointes Caused by Hypokalemia and Catecholamines in a Patient with Congenital Long QT Syndrome Type 1 After Surgical Aortic Valve Replacement: A Case Report.

Abstract: BACKGROUND Prevention of lethal arrhythmias in congenital long QT syndrome type 1 (LQT1) requires avoidance of sympathoexcitation, drugs that prolong QT, and electrolyte abnormalities. However, it is often difficult to avoid all these risks in the perioperative period of open heart surgery. Herein, we report hypokalemia-induced cardiac arrest in a postoperative cardiac patient with LQT1 on catecholamine. CASE REPORT A 79-year-old woman underwent surgical aortic valve replacement for severe aortic stenosis. Although the initial plan was not to use catecholamine, catecholamine was used in the Postoperative Intensive Care Unit with attention to QT interval and electrolytes due to heart failure caused by postoperative bleeding. Serum potassium levels were controlled above 4.5 mEq/L, and no arrhythmic events occurred. On postoperative day 4, the patient was started on insulin owing to hyperglycemia. Cardiac arrest occurred after the first insulin dose; the implantable cardioverter defibrillator was activated, and the patient's own heartbeat resumed. Subsequent examination revealed that a marked decrease in serum potassium level had occurred after insulin administration. The electrocardiogram showed obvious QT prolongation and ventricular fibrillation following R on T. Thereafter, under strict potassium management, there was no recurrence of cardiac arrest events. CONCLUSIONS A patient with LQT1 who underwent open heart surgery developed ventricular fibrillation after Torsades de Pointes, probably due to hypokalemia after insulin administration in addition to catecholamine. It is important to check serum potassium levels to avoid the onset of Torsades de Pointes in patients with long QT syndrome. In addition, the impact of insulin administration was reaffirmed.

Citation: Kitaura A, et al. Cardiac Arrest Following Torsades de Pointes Caused by Hypokalemia and Catecholamines in a Patient with Congenital Long QT Syndrome Type 1 After Surgical Aortic Valve Replacement: A Case Report. Cardiac Arrest Following Torsades de Pointes Caused by Hypokalemia and Catecholamines in a Patient with Congenital Long QT Syndrome Type 1 After Surgical Aortic Valve Replacement: A Case Report. 2022; 23:e938609. doi: 10.12659/AJCR.938609

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36523136/
