PMID: 36526518
Title: Central sensitization adversely affects quality of recovery following lumbar decompression surgery.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Central sensitization (CS) is defined as increased responsiveness of nociceptive neurons in the central nervous system to normal or subthreshold afferent input. The CS phenomenon is caused by continuous, intense nociceptor inputs triggering a prolonged but reversible increase in the excitability and synaptic efficacy of neurons in the central nociceptive pathway. Most patients undergoing surgery for lumbar spinal stenosis (LSS) experience symptoms for more than three months; therefore, it is possible that CS is associated with postoperative symptoms of LSS. The aim of this study was to clarify the influence of CS in patients who underwent surgery for LSS.
METHODS: We used the Central Sensitization Inventory (CSI) to evaluate CS preoperatively. Clinical and neurological symptoms were assessed before surgery and three months after surgery using the Japanese Orthopedic Association Back Pain Evaluation Questionnaire (JOA-BPEQ) and the Oswestry Disability Index (ODI). To evaluate the correlation between the preoperative CSI score and each parameter of the JOA-BPEQ before and three months after surgery, a Pearson correlation coefficient was used. We also evaluated the correlation between preoperative CSI and improvement scores for each parameter of the JOA-BPEQ for surgery. Similarly, the ODI was assessed.
RESULTS: This study included 118 patients. After surgery, the parameters of lumbar function disorder, social life function disorder, and mental health disorder revealed a statistically significant relationship (r = -0.289, -0.0354, and -0.493, respectively). There was no significant correlation between CSI and improvement scores of the JOA-BPEQ. The ODI assessment after surgery revealed a statistically significant relationship (r = 0.344). There was no significant correlation between the CSI and ODI improvement scores.
CONCLUSION: This study showed that the severity of the CSI influenced the postoperative outcomes, and that surgical treatment improved the symptoms of LSS regardless of the occurrence of CS preoperatively.

Citation: Mui T, et al. Central sensitization adversely affects quality of recovery following lumbar decompression surgery. Central sensitization adversely affects quality of recovery following lumbar decompression surgery. 2024; 29:78-82. doi: 10.1016/j.jos.2022.11.020

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36526518/
