PMID: 36527626
Title: A Case of Intracranial Vertebral Artery Stenosis Treated with Percutaneous Transluminal Angioplasty and Stenting Guided by Brain Oximetry.

Abstract: Surgical treatment should be considered for patients with severe vertebrobasilar artery (VBA) stenosis or progressive symptoms, but there is currently no clear treatment algorithm. We report a case of symptomatic intracranial vertebral artery stenosis with repeated cerebral infarction treated by percutaneous transluminal angioplasty (PTA) and stenting and monitoring of oxygen saturation by a brain oximeter. The patient was a 76-year-old man referred to our hospital due to infarction in the right cerebellum. Angiography showed 60% stenosis in the right vertebral artery and 90% stenosis in the left vertebral artery with progressive stenosis in the left. The patient was treated with intravenous and oral triple antiplatelet therapy but had dizziness again with new cerebral infarctions in the left cerebellum and right pontine. We shaved the patient's hair up to the superior nuchal line and placed left and right oximeter probes on each cerebellar hemisphere (2 cm lateral and 2 cm caudal from the external occipital protuberance). Under evaluation of blood flow in the posterior circulation with INVOS Cerebral/Somatic Oximeter, PTA and stent placement were performed for left vertebral artery stenosis. Postoperatively, the dizziness disappeared, and the patient was discharged on his own with good outcome. He has not had a recurrent stroke in over 6 years. Although medical treatment is generally considered the first choice for VBA stenosis, recurrent cerebral infarction occurs at a high rate in symptomatic lesions, and the prognosis is poor. In addition, the perioperative complication rate is not low, and there is no established method for evaluating perfusion of posterior circulation. The brain oximeter is already known to be useful in carotid artery (CA) revascularisation. In this report, we were able to perform a minimally invasive evaluation of blood flow in the posterior circulation using the brain oximeter which might be useful for surgical revascularisation not only in CA but also in VBA.

Citation: Okuma Y, et al. A Case of Intracranial Vertebral Artery Stenosis Treated with Percutaneous Transluminal Angioplasty and Stenting Guided by Brain Oximetry. A Case of Intracranial Vertebral Artery Stenosis Treated with Percutaneous Transluminal Angioplasty and Stenting Guided by Brain Oximetry. 2022; 1395:127-131. doi: 10.1007/978-3-031-14190-4_22

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36527626/
