PMID: 36523192
Title: Usefulness of cone-beam computed tomography to predict residual stenosis after carotid artery stenting.

Abstract: OBJECTIVES: The long-term durability of carotid artery stenting (CAS) may be determined by various factors; however, residual stenosis is a known risk factor for in-stent restenosis. The authors of this article utilized cone-beam computed tomography (CBCT) in angiosuite to investigate plaque features affecting the character and quality of stent expansion after CAS.
METHODS: Forty-two CAS cases with both pre- and post-CAS CBCT evaluations were included in this retrospective analysis. Five features derived from pre-CAS images were tested: (1) eccentricity, (2) overballoon, (3) maximum plaque thickness, (4) calcification barrier, and (5) stenotic degree. For post-CAS CBCT, stent configuration was assessed if the stent was expanded and oval or round in shape as well as outward or inward in orientation. Variables were tested if they were associated with oval expansion, outward expansion, and 20% residual stenosis after CAS.
RESULTS: Oval or outward expansion is directly related to residual stenosis. The oval expansion was associated with maximum plaque thickness, and outward expansion was associated with the presence of a calcification barrier. Variables related to > 20% residual stenosis were the maximum plaque thickness, calcification barrier, and pre-CAS stenotic degree.
CONCLUSIONS: CBCT for carotid stenosis may provide valuable information about plaque features, especially calcification features that may interfere with the angioplasty effect, as well as the characteristics and quality of stent expansion. Residual stenosis > 20% was associated with calcification barrier, maximum plaque thickness, and pre-CAS stenotic degree.

Citation: Roh J, et al. Usefulness of cone-beam computed tomography to predict residual stenosis after carotid artery stenting. Usefulness of cone-beam computed tomography to predict residual stenosis after carotid artery stenting. 2024; 30:720-727. doi: 10.1177/15910199221143259

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36523192/
