PMID: 36526741
Title: Colon patch esophagoplasty for esophageal strictures refractory to multi-modal treatment revisited.

Abstract: INTRODUCTION/PURPOSE: Esophageal strictures due to caustic ingestion (CI) may require repeat esophageal dilations and dilation adjuvants, including local anti-fibrinogenic injection therapy, stent placement, and radial stricture incisions. Refractory strictures require surgical intervention. Pedicled colon patch esophagoplasty (CPE) may avoid the morbidity associated with total esophageal replacement, although reports of its use are limited. Indications and outcomes for CPE in patients undergoing repeat esophageal stricture dilations following caustic ingestion are described according to our local experience and literature reports.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: A retrospective review of indications for surgical management of esophageal strictures to tertiary pediatric surgical services between 2015 and 2020 focused on patients undergoing CPE. English-language literature (PubMed, Google Scholar, and Scopus) describing CPE was also reviewed.
RESULTS: Eight (12%) out of 65 patients with esophageal strictures requiring 7 or more esophageal dilations with poor response underwent surgical stricture management over a 6 year period, which included stricture resection and re-anastomosis in 2 patients, total esophageal replacement with colon graft in 2 patients, gastric pull-up in 1 patient, and CPE in 3 patients. The patients undergoing CPE were aged 3-8 years and had 17 to more than 25 dilations following caustic ingestion over a 2-5 year period. One patient had a 4 cm stricture; the other 2 had strictures 7 cm in length. A transverse colon patch based on the middle and left colic vessels was utilized in all three, with the vascular pedicle placed retrogastrically via the esophageal hiatus and the patch inlay esophagoplasty concluded via right thoracotomy. Post-operative contrast studies showed near-normal anatomy, and the patients could tolerate full oral diets. During a 9-36 month follow-up period, only 2 patients required dilations of a proximal anastomotic stricture at 1 and 5 months postoperatively. One patient required additional proximal stricturoplasty with advancement of the original graft across the stricture via a cervical surgical approach.
CONCLUSION: Colon patch esophagoplasty to restore esophageal luminal continuity and allow a normal diet should be considered for refractory esophageal strictures. CPE had excellent functional outcomes in our 3 patients and should be considered in selected cases instead of total esophageal replacement.

Citation: Vorster J, et al. Colon patch esophagoplasty for esophageal strictures refractory to multi-modal treatment revisited. Colon patch esophagoplasty for esophageal strictures refractory to multi-modal treatment revisited. 2022; 39:53. doi: 10.1007/s00383-022-05334-5

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36526741/
