PMID: 36533353
Title: [Clinical effect of laparoscopic transcystic drainage combined with common bile duct exploration for the patients with difficult biliary stones].

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: To explore the feasibility and efficacy of laparoscopic transcystic drainage and common bile duct exploration in the treatment of patients with difficult biliary stones.
METHODS: Between April 2020 and December 2021, eighteen patients with difficult biliary stones received laparoscopic transcystic drainage (C-tube technique) and common bile duct exploration. The clinical characteristics and outcomes were retrospectively collected. The safety and effectiveness of laparoscopic transcystic drainage and common bile duct exploration were analyzed.
RESULTS: Among the eighteen patients with difficult biliary stones, thirteen patients received traditional laparoscopic transcystic drainage, and the remaining five received modified laparoscopic transcystic drainage. The mean surgical duration were (161±59) min (82-279 min), no bile duct stenosis or residual stone was observed in the patients receiving postoperative cholangiography via C-tube. The maximum volume of C-tube drainage was (500±163) mL/d (180-820 mL/d). Excluding three patients with early dislodgement of C-tube, among the fifteen patients with C-tube maintained, the median time of C-tube removal was 8 d (5-12 d). The duration of hospital stay was (12±3) d (7-21 d) for the 18 patients. Five C-tube related adverse events were observed, all of which occurred in the patients with traditional laparoscopic transcystic drainage, including two abnormal position of the C-tube, and three early dislocation of the C-tube. All the 5 adverse events caused no complications. Only one grade one complication occurred, which was in a patient with modified laparoscopic transcystic drainage. The patient demonstrated transient fever after C-tube removal, but there was no bile in the drainage tube and the subsequent CT examination confirmed no bile leakage. The fever spontaneously relieved with conservative observation, and the patient recovered uneventfully with discharge the next day. All the 18 patients were followed up for 1-20 months (median: 9 months). Normal liver function and no recurrence of stone were detected with ultrasonography or magnetic resonance cholangiopancreatography (MRCP).
CONCLUSION: Laparoscopic transcystic drainage combined with common bile duct exploration is safe and feasible in the treatment of patients with difficult biliary stones. The short-term effect is good. Modified laparoscopic transcystic drainage approach may reduce the incidence of C-tube dislocation and bile leak.

Citation: Zhang LF, et al. [Clinical effect of laparoscopic transcystic drainage combined with common bile duct exploration for the patients with difficult biliary stones]. [Clinical effect of laparoscopic transcystic drainage combined with common bile duct exploration for the patients with difficult biliary stones]. 2022; 54:1185-1189. doi: 10.19723/j.issn.1671-167X.2022.06.021

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36533353/
