PMID: 36538698
Title: Single-Port Endorobotic Rectal Mucosa Harvest For Urethral Reconstruction.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Colorectal mucosal grafts for substitution urethroplasty are alternatives for patients when buccal mucosa is not adequate for long urethral strictures.
IMPACT OF INNOVATION: This study presents the first cases of single-port endorobotic rectal mucosa harvesting for urethral reconstruction.
TECHNOLOGY MATERIALS AND METHODS: The patients are 43- and 57-year-old men with medical histories of lichen sclerosis. The urethrograms demonstrated panurethral strictures requiring long mucosal grafts. The single-port robot was docked under general anesthesia in the modified lithotomy position. The procedure began with a submucosal injection of a lifting agent. After achieving an adequate lift of the mucosa, the dissection was started 2 cm proximal to the sphincter complex with a hook and continued cephalad. The semiflexible robotic platform eased and facilitated the dissection providing the required traction and counter traction. The injecting needle and aspiration device were directed with the help of a silk knot at the tip of the tools to create a handle for robot arms. The procedure was continued with a spatula tip thinner than the hook, which delivers less energy to the dissection field and creates a precise cut. The harvested graft was provided to the urology team after pinning it for measurement. The urologists prepared and completed the reconstruction of the urethra with the autograft.
PRELIMINARY RESULTS: The patient had no complications related to his rectal mucosa harvest.
CONCLUSIONS: We report the first 2 cases of single-port robotic rectal mucosal harvesting for long panurethral strictures with single-port endorobotic submucosal dissection technique.
FUTURE DIRECTIONS: The technique seems promising to facilitate the precise submucosal dissection with meticulous control of traction and delivered energy.

Citation: Ozgur I, et al. Single-Port Endorobotic Rectal Mucosa Harvest For Urethral Reconstruction. Single-Port Endorobotic Rectal Mucosa Harvest For Urethral Reconstruction. 2023; 66:e54-e57. doi: 10.1097/DCR.0000000000002577

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36538698/
