PMID: 36547686
Title: Comment on: ''Tuberous Breast, Deformities, and Asymmetries: A Retrospective Analysis Comparing Fat Grafting Versus Mastopexy and Breast Implants''.

Abstract: We read with great interest the article titled "Tuberous breast, deformities, and asymmetries: a retrospective analysis comparing fat grafting versus mastopexy and breast implants" by Gentile. In this interesting paper, the author compares results obtained in patients suffering from tuberous breast, deformities, and asymmetries treated with fat grafting (FG) with those of patients who underwent mastopexy and breast implant (M-SI). The TB reconstructive procedures aims to release the constricted base both vertically and horizontally, restore the correct nipple-inframammary fold distance, avoid the double bubble, correct ptosis and hypertrophy, and restore both volume and asymmetry. In most cases, it poses a real challenge to surgical correction through the exclusive use of only one of the surgical techniques described in the paper. We think the type of surgical procedure is determined by specific factors which must be considered by both the surgeon and the patient. We propose a classification that analyzes 3 characteristics (type of stenosis, hypoplasia, and ptosis) and identifies 8 classes of TB: this classification allows to guide the surgeon in choosing the most appropriate surgical maneuvers for each type of TB. In conclusion, we think that each case of TB, deformities, and asymmetries should be carefully studied and classified, opting for the most appropriate surgical method "tailored made" to ensure the best result for the patient. Among these techniques, M-SI and FG are two important weapons in the hands of the surgeon, who must use them wisely, knowing each indication and limits.Level of Evidence V This journal requires that authors assign a level of evidence to each article. For a full description of these Evidence-Based Medicine ratings, please refer to the Table of Contents or the online Instructions to Authors www.springer.com/00266 .

Citation: Vaccari S, et al. Comment on: ''Tuberous Breast, Deformities, and Asymmetries: A Retrospective Analysis Comparing Fat Grafting Versus Mastopexy and Breast Implants''. Comment on: ''Tuberous Breast, Deformities, and Asymmetries: A Retrospective Analysis Comparing Fat Grafting Versus Mastopexy and Breast Implants''. 2023; 47:207-208. doi: 10.1007/s00266-022-03233-7

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36547686/
