PMID: 36544611
Title: The effects of ustekinumab on small intestinal lesions and stenotic lesions.

Abstract: Crohn's disease patients suffer from symptoms originating from small bowel lesions, including strictures. As many of these patients also have a potential risk of surgery, it is important to consider various therapeutic strategies for small bowel lesions. We retrospectively analyzed the therapeutic effects of ustekinumab, interleukin-12 and -23 blocker, for small intestinal lesions and intestinal stenosis in order to contribute to the optimal management of Crohn's disease. Patients who underwent total colonoscopy or small bowel endoscopy before and after the introduction of ustekinumab were enrolled in this study. The colonoscopy findings were evaluated by the simple endoscopic score for Crohn's disease, and small bowel endoscopy findings were evaluated using the modified simple endoscopic score for Crohn's disease. Endoscopic scores were compared before and after the introduction of ustekinumab and between the responders and non-responders to ustekinumab. Responders were defined as those whose Crohn's disease activity index score at 24 weeks fell below 150 points, or those whose score decreased by more than 100 points from the pre-induction level. A total of 50 patients were enrolled in the study, and the number of responders was 35. Pre-induction simple endoscopic scores were lower for responders, but no significant difference was observed in the modified simple endoscopic scores. The total decrease in the endoscopic score was significantly higher in the responders for both the small and large intestine. Use of ustekinumab as a first-line treatment for patients with small bowel lesions or stricture-prone lesions may be a new treatment consideration in the future.

Citation: Wada H, et al. The effects of ustekinumab on small intestinal lesions and stenotic lesions. The effects of ustekinumab on small intestinal lesions and stenotic lesions. 2022; 84:825-838. doi: 10.18999/nagjms.84.4.825

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36544611/
