PMID: 36541810
Title: Post-operative tension spinal subdural extra-arachnoid hygroma of the lumbar spine: case series, literature review, and recommendations for clinical management.

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: Case series presentation and literature review of patient group suffering from symptomatic tension subdural extra-arachnoid hygroma following decompressive surgery for degenerative lumbar stenosis or disc disease. The purpose was to better understand this rare post-operative complication with a pathognomic radiological sign to help recommend optimal strategies for clinical management.
METHODS: Retrospective case series comprising seven cases from one tertiary Neurosurgical centre spanning a 10-year period from 2011 to 2021. Patients included were those known to have undergone a spinal procedure and subsequently to have developed a symptomatic spinal subdural extra-arachnoid hygroma (SSEH). A literature review was conducted using PubMed, MEDLINE and EMBASE (keywords 'subdural hygroma', 'lumbar CSF hygroma', 'extra arachnoid hygroma', 'extra-arachnoid CSF collection', 'CSF tension hygroma', 'lumbar extra arachnoid hygroma', 'lumbar spinal hygroma', 'post-operating spinal hygroma', 'post-operative spinal CSF collection') and through reading references cited in relevant articles. Articles involving post-operative SSEH following lumbar spinal surgery were included.
RESULTS: Rare complication with only five other cases in the literature. Dural breach described intra-operatively in only 5 of 12 total cases from our series and the literature. 5 patients in our series were managed surgically with 2 being managed conservatively. All patients in our series improved symptomatically and radiologically following surgical or conservative management.
CONCLUSIONS: This is a rare post-lumbar surgery complication that can cause rapidly deteriorating lower limb and sphincteric function. Surgical management with wide durotomy and arachnoid marsupialisation can lead to reversal of neurological deterioration and excellent clinical results. A delayed presentation with pseudomeningocele formation may be managed conservatively if neurology is stable or improving. It is a condition that it is important for the clinician to recognise in order to instigate appropriate management in a time-dependent fashion.

Citation: Thompson D, et al. Post-operative tension spinal subdural extra-arachnoid hygroma of the lumbar spine: case series, literature review, and recommendations for clinical management. Post-operative tension spinal subdural extra-arachnoid hygroma of the lumbar spine: case series, literature review, and recommendations for clinical management. 2022; (unknown volume):1-6. doi: 10.1080/02688697.2022.2154748

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36541810/
