PMID: 36550481
Title: Clinical and imaging characteristics of cardiac magnetic resonance presenting with myocardial infarction with non-obstructive coronary arteries in China.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: The characteristics are still unclear due to lack of systematic research on patients with myocardial infarction non-obstructive coronary arteries (MINOCA) in China. This study aimed to explore the clinical and imaging features of MINOCA patients.
METHODS: The patients who were diagnosed as suspected MI were studied. Cardiac magnetic resonance (CMR) was performed after coronary angiography or coronary computed tomographic angiography examination within one week. Myocardial infarction (MI) was determined by late gadolinium enhancement CMR.The patients with MI were divided into MINOCA and MICAD group according to whether the degree of coronary stenosis was greater than 50%. Cardiac function and imaging characteristics between the two groups were analyzed.
RESULTS: 21 patients with MINOCA and 30 patients with myocardial infarction with obstructive coronary artery disease (MICAD) were analyzed. MINOCA patients were younger, and the electrocardiogram was commonly featured by non-ST-elevation. The parameters of left ventricular function were significantly different between the two groups including left ventricular ejection fraction, stroke volume, cardiac output, myocardial mass, and peak ejection rate (P < 0.05). Besides, MINOCA patients had smaller area of MI, less score of transmural extent, fewer involved segments. Furthermore, the transmural extent of MI in MINOCA patients was mainly grade I, that is, most of them were subendocardial MI, which was significantly negatively correlated with the amount of first-pass perfusion.
CONCLUSIONS: The clinical characteristics combined with imaging features of CMR may be effective to evaluate the cardiac function in order to make clinical decision for MINOCA patients in China.

Citation: Zhao X, et al. Clinical and imaging characteristics of cardiac magnetic resonance presenting with myocardial infarction with non-obstructive coronary arteries in China. Clinical and imaging characteristics of cardiac magnetic resonance presenting with myocardial infarction with non-obstructive coronary arteries in China. 2022; 17:332. doi: 10.1186/s13019-022-02072-6

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36550481/
