PMID: 36550245
Title: Assessment of valve implantation in the descending aorta as an alternative for aortic regurgitation patients not treatable with conventional procedures.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Aortic Regurgitation (AR) produces the entrance of an abnormal amount of blood in the left ventricle. This disease is responsible for high morbidity and mortality worldwide and may be caused by an aortic valve dysfunction. Surgical and transcatheter aortic valve replacement (TAVR) are the current options for treating AR. They have replaced older procedures such as Hufnagel's one. However, some physicians have reconsidered this procedure as a less aggressive alternative for patients not eligible for surgical or TAVR. Although Hufnagel suggested a 75% regurgitation reduction when a valve is placed in the descending aorta, a quantification of this value has not been reported.
METHODS: In this paper, CFD/FSI numerical simulation is conducted on an idealized geometry. We quantify the effect of placing a bileaflet mechanical heart valve in the descending aorta on a moderate-severe AR case. A three-element Windkessel model is employed to prescribe pressure outlet boundary conditions. We calculate the resulting flow rates and pressures at the aorta and first-generation vessels. Moreover, we evaluate several indices to assess the improvement due to the valve introduction.
RESULTS AND CONCLUSIONS: Regurgitation fraction (RF) is reduced from 37.5% (without valve) to 18.0% (with valve) in a single cardiac cycle. This reduction clearly shows the remarkable efficacy of the rescued technique. It will further ameliorate the left ventricle function in the long-term. Moreover, the calculations show that the implantation in that location introduces fewer incompatibilities' risks than a conventional one. The proposed methodology can be extended to any particular conditions (pressure waveforms/geometry) and is designed to assess usual clinical parameters employed by physicians.

Citation: García-Galindo A, et al. Assessment of valve implantation in the descending aorta as an alternative for aortic regurgitation patients not treatable with conventional procedures. Assessment of valve implantation in the descending aorta as an alternative for aortic regurgitation patients not treatable with conventional procedures. 2023; 22:575-591. doi: 10.1007/s10237-022-01665-3

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36550245/
