PMID: 36558933
Title: Treatment of Central Nervous System Infection Caused by Multidrug-Resistant Klebsiella pneumoniae with Colistin Sulfate Intravenously and Intrathecally: A Case Report.

Abstract: Background: Due to the blood-brain barrier and limited antibiotic choices, polymyxin is currently the first-line agent for the treatment of central nervous system infections (CNSIs) caused by multidrug-resistant Gram-negative bacteria (MDR-GNB). Colistin sulfate, as a polymyxin E different from CMS, is used in Chinese clinics, and there are limited reports on its use in the treatment of CNSIs. Case Presentation: This case describes a 76-year-old man who underwent complex neurosurgery for cervical spinal stenosis. Postoperatively, the patient developed a fever and a poorly healed surgical wound. Numerous blood routine tests, inflammatory markers, pathogenic tests of cervical secretions, cerebrospinal fluid (CSF), and sputum were sent for diagnosis. After empirical antimicrobial treatments failed, the CSF and wound pus cultured carbapenem-resistant Klebsiella pneumoniae. The regimen was adjusted to colistin sulfate intravenously and intrathecal injection combined with tigecycline. In addition, the management of infection foci, including continuous lumbar pool drain, cervical 3-5 internal fixation removal with cervical 1-6 spine dilation, CSF leak repair, and right thigh broad fasciotomy, were performed. After treatment, the patient was discharged with multiple sets of negative CSF cultures and the infection under control. Conclusions: For CNSIs caused by MDR-GNB, the selection of colistin sulfate for intravenous and topical combination treatment is a viable choice.

Citation: Lu X, et al. Treatment of Central Nervous System Infection Caused by Multidrug-Resistant Klebsiella pneumoniae with Colistin Sulfate Intravenously and Intrathecally: A Case Report. Treatment of Central Nervous System Infection Caused by Multidrug-Resistant Klebsiella pneumoniae with Colistin Sulfate Intravenously and Intrathecally: A Case Report. 2022; 15:(unknown pages). doi: 10.3390/ph15121482

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36558933/
