PMID: 36556098
Title: Extent of Left Ventricular Mass Regression and Impact of Global Left Ventricular Afterload on Cardiac Events and Mortality after Aortic Valve Replacement.

Abstract: Patient-prosthesis mismatch (PPM) causes a high transvalvular pressure gradient and residual left ventricular (LV) hypertrophy, consequently influencing long-term results. This study aimed to find the relationships between hemodynamic parameters and LV mass regression and determine the risk predictors of major adverse cardiovascular and cerebral events (MACCE) after aortic valve replacement (AVR) for aortic stenosis. Methods and Results: Preoperative and postoperative Doppler echocardiography data were evaluated for 120 patients after AVR. The patients' mean age was 67.7 years; 55% of the patients were male. Forty-four (37%) patients suffered from MACCE during a mean follow-up period of 3.6 ± 2 years. The following hemodynamic parameters at follow-up were associated with lower relative indexed LV mass (LVMI) regression: lower postoperative indexed effective orifice area, greater mean transvalvular pressure gradient (MPG), greater stroke work loss (SWL), and concentric or eccentric LV remodeling mode. The following hemodynamic parameters at follow-up were associated with a higher risk of MACCE: higher valvuloarterial impedance (Z<sub>VA</sub>), greater SWL, greater MPG, greater relative wall thickness, greater LVMI, and hypertrophic LV remodeling mode. Lower relative LVMI regression was associated with a higher risk of MACCE (hazard ratio, 1.01: 95% confidence interval, 1.003-1.03). The corresponding cutoff of relative LVMI regression was -14%. Conclusions: Changes in hemodynamic parameters were independently associated with relative LVMI regression. Impaired reverse remodeling and persistent residual LV hypertrophy were independent risk predictors of MACCE. An LVMI regression lower than 14% indicated higher MACCE. A postoperative Z<sub>VA</sub> greater than 3.5 mmHg/mL/m2 was an independent risk predictor of cardiac events and mortality after AVR. Preventive strategies should be used at the time of the operation to avoid PPM.

Citation: Chen JS, et al. Extent of Left Ventricular Mass Regression and Impact of Global Left Ventricular Afterload on Cardiac Events and Mortality after Aortic Valve Replacement. Extent of Left Ventricular Mass Regression and Impact of Global Left Ventricular Afterload on Cardiac Events and Mortality after Aortic Valve Replacement. 2022; 11:(unknown pages). doi: 10.3390/jcm11247482

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36556098/
