PMID: 36569785
Title: Contemporary Management of Median Arcuate Ligament in Liver Transplantation.

Abstract: UNLABELLED: Median arcuate ligament (MAL) can impair arterial inflow during orthotopic liver transplantation (OLT). Furthermore, approaches to ensure optimal vascular inflow in the presence of MAL is not standardized.
METHODS: We undertook a systematic review according to the Cochrane systematic review protocol and Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic Reviews and Meta-Analyses guidelines. We analyzed the incidence of MAL, investigations, treatment options, and potential complications associated with MAL intervention in patients undergoing OLT. After the exclusion criteria were implemented, the dataset from the final 21 manuscripts yielded 117 patients who underwent a liver transplant in the presence of MAL.
RESULTS: The incidence of MAL in patients undergoing OLT is between 1.6% and 12%. In 63.2% of cases, an open approach for MAL intervention was undertaken. Hepatic artery thrombosis developed in 17% (7) patients without MAL intervention versus 2.6% (2) after MAL intervention. Seven grafts (5.9%) were lost after OLT in patients with MAL. Three (3.9%) patients developed arterial stenosis post-MAL intervention.
CONCLUSIONS: We propose an algorithm for intraoperative assessment and management of liver transplant arterial inflow in the presence of MAL based on the hepatic artery flow changes with respiration, following clamping of the recipient gastroduodenal artery. In the presence of a 30%-50% flow variation on respiration, the arterial inflow should be established preserving additional inflow from the recipient gastroduodenal artery. Consider an open MAL release if the flow remains insufficient. A poor arterial flow with no variation with respiration and lack of evidence of aortoiliac atherosclerosis indicates the need for arterial jump graft.

Citation: Babu BI and Oniscu GC. Contemporary Management of Median Arcuate Ligament in Liver Transplantation. Contemporary Management of Median Arcuate Ligament in Liver Transplantation. 2022; 8:e1348. doi: 10.1097/TXD.0000000000001348

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36569785/
