PMID: 36565194
Title: Social Deprivation and Post-TAVR Outcomes in Ontario, Canada: A Population-Based Study.

Abstract: Background Transcatheter aortic valve replacement (TAVR)/intervention has become the standard of care for treatment of severe aortic stenosis across the spectrum of risk. There are socioeconomic disparities in access to TAVR. The impact of these disparities on postprocedural outcomes remains unknown. Our objective was to examine the association between neighborhood-level social deprivation and post-TAVR mortality and hospital readmission. Methods and Results We conducted a population-based retrospective cohort study of all 4145 patients in Ontario, Canada, who received TAVR from April 1, 2017, to March 31, 2020. Our co-primary outcomes were 1-year postprocedure mortality and 1-year postprocedure readmission. Using Cox proportional hazards models for mortality and cause-specific competing risk hazard models for readmission, we evaluated the relationship between neighborhood-level measures of residential instability, material deprivation, and concentration of racial and ethnic groups with post-TAVR outcomes. After multivariable adjustment, we found a statistically significant relationship between residential instability and postprocedural 1-year mortality, ranging from a hazard ratio of 1.64 to a hazard ratio of 2.05. There was a significant association between the highest degree of residential instability and 1-year readmission (hazard ratio, 1.23 [95% CI, 1.01-1.49]). There was no association between material deprivation and concentration of racial and ethnic groups with post-TAVR outcomes. Conclusions Residential instability was associated with increased risk for post-TAVR mortality, and the highest quintile of residential instability was associated with increased post-TAVR readmission. To reduce health disparities and promote an equitable health care system, further research and policy interventions will be required to identify and support economically and socially minoritized patients undergoing TAVR.

Citation: Patel RV, et al. Social Deprivation and Post-TAVR Outcomes in Ontario, Canada: A Population-Based Study. Social Deprivation and Post-TAVR Outcomes in Ontario, Canada: A Population-Based Study. 2023; 12:e028144. doi: 10.1161/JAHA.122.028144

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36565194/
