PMID: 36566169
Title: Our experience of using Losartan for esophageal stenosis in children with dystrophic form of congenital epidermolysis bullosa.

Abstract: INTRODUCTION: Dystrophic epidermolysis bullosa (DEB) is one of the most severe forms of congenital epidermolysis bullosa and characterized by the formation of many surgical complications. Esophageal stenosis is a common complication of DEB and occurs in almost 76% of cases. Balloon dilatation (BD) under X-ray control is the main therapeutic technique, however conservative treatment is necessary to prevent restenosis. The use of the drug losartan is promising due to its antifibrotic effect through the suppression of transforming growth factor-β1 (TGF-β1).
PURPOSE: To evaluate the efficacy of losartan in the prevention of restenosis after BD of esophageal stenosis in children with DEB.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: The study included 19 children from 2 to 16 years old (mean age 9.2 ± 3.58 years) with DEB and X-ray confirmed esophageal stenosis. All children underwent BD. In the main group 9 children after BD have received losartan, in the control group of 10 children - only standard therapy. The observation period was 12 months.
RESULTS: In the main group, 1 child (11.1%) required repeated dilatation, in the control group - 4 children (40%). Indicators of nutritional deficiency (THINC scale) and the disease severity index (EBDASI) were significantly lower in the group of children treated with losartan. No undesirable actions of the drug were recorded.
CONCLUSIONS: In this study losartan showed its safety, contributed to a decrease in the restenosis frequency and an improvement in the nutritional status of children with DEB after BD. However, further studies are required to confirm its effectiveness.
LEVEL OF EVIDENCE: IV.

Citation: Oldakovskiy V, et al. Our experience of using Losartan for esophageal stenosis in children with dystrophic form of congenital epidermolysis bullosa. Our experience of using Losartan for esophageal stenosis in children with dystrophic form of congenital epidermolysis bullosa. 2023; 58:619-623. doi: 10.1016/j.jpedsurg.2022.11.001

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36566169/
