PMID: 36568281
Title: Investigating the role of receptor interacting protein kinase 3 in venous thrombosis.

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: Venous thromboembolism is a disease that encompasses both deep vein thrombosis and pulmonary embolism. Recent investigations have shown that receptor interacting protein kinase 3 (RIPK3), a protein known for its role in the programmed form of cell death necroptosis, may play a role in thrombosis. Specifically, RIPK3 has been shown to promote platelet activation in arterial thrombosis and mixed lineage kinase domain-like pseudokinase (MLKL), a protein downstream of RIPK3 in the necroptosis pathway, has been shown to promote neutrophil extracellular trap formation in deep vein thrombosis. This investigation sought to comprehensively investigate the role of RIPK3 in deep vein thrombogenesis.
METHODS: The inferior vena cava ligation and stenosis models of deep vein thrombosis were used in C57BL/6J, RIPK3 wild-type (Ripk3 +/+ ) and RIPK3-deficient (Ripk3 -/- ) mice. Downstream tissue analyses included measurement of thrombus weight and histological and Western blot analysis of tissues for markers of necroptosis and cell death. A subset of C57BL/6J mice were treated with a RIPK3 inhibitor to determine the effect on venous thrombosis.
RESULTS: C57BL/6J mice showed significant increases in thrombus weight from 6 to 48 hours. During the same time frame, RIPK3 progressively accumulated in the vein wall (a 35-fold increase from 0 to 48 hours). RIPK3 was present in the thrombus; however, it decreased with time. Although present in the thrombus, MLKL was nearly undetectable in the vein wall by Western blot at any timepoint. Immunostaining confirmed the high accumulation of RIPK3 in the vein wall, primarily colocalized to endothelial and smooth muscle cells. Phosphorylated MLKL, the active form of MLKL and executioner of necroptotic cell death, was detectable by immunostaining in the thrombus, but was present at low to undetectable levels in the vein wall. Propidium iodide and terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase dUTP nick end labeling staining revealed a high burden of necrotic and apoptotic cells within the thrombus at 48 hours, but a relatively lower burden within the vein wall. Despite robust accumulation of RIPK3 within the vessel wall and the thrombus, knockout and inhibition of RIPK3 failed to impact thrombus incident or weight at 48 hours after inferior vena cava ligation. Neutrophil extracellular trap burden did not differ between Ripk3 +/+ and Ripk3 -/- mice.
CONCLUSIONS: In mice, the vein wall responded to deep vein thrombosis induction with elevation of RIPK3 without showing markers of necroptosis and apoptosis. Studies using genetic or pharmacological inhibition of RIPK3 suggest that this cell death mediator may not have a major role in the acute phase of venous thrombogenesis. Further investigation is needed to determine if RIPK3 plays a potentially non-necroptotic role within the vein wall during later stages of thrombus resolution and vein wall remodeling.

Citation: DeRoo E, et al. Investigating the role of receptor interacting protein kinase 3 in venous thrombosis. Investigating the role of receptor interacting protein kinase 3 in venous thrombosis. 2022; 3:365-378. doi: 10.1016/j.jvssci.2022.09.002

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36568281/
