PMID: 36579686
Title: Pediatric Bilateral Vocal Cord Immobility: New Treatment With Preservation of Voice.

Abstract: OBJECTIVES: Pediatric bilateral vocal cord immobility (BVCI) represents a severe life-threatening condition that often causes severe dyspnea. Endoscopic arytenoid lateral abduction (EALA) is a relatively new, secure, minimal-invasive surgical technique. The present prospective observational study aims to evaluate the effects of EALA in terms of respiratory function, voice quality, and swallowing capabilities.
METHODS: Twenty-one pediatric patients with BVCI underwent EALA. Eleven out of 21 patients had tracheostomy at the time of surgery. Pre and postoperative functional assessments included endoscopic evaluation, maximum phonation time, pediatric Voice Handicap Index (pVHI), GIRBAS Scale criteria, and Montreal Children's Hospital Feeding scale (MCH-Feeding scale). peak tidal inspiratory flow or peak inspiratory flow (PIF) and number of desaturations/hour (ODI/h) were evaluated in patients without tracheostomy.
RESULTS: Postoperative endoscopy showed glottic airway improvement in all patients. Average time for decannulation was 4.6 weeks. One patient has not yet been decannulated. No major complications occurred. In patients without tracheostomy, we observed a significant improvement of ODI/h and PIF after surgery (p < 0.05) as expected. PVHI, MCH-Feeding scale, and GIRBAS score significantly worsened 1 month after surgical intervention (p < 0.05). One year after surgery, however, all values, except for B and A parameters of the GIRBAS score, returned to levels comparable to those preoperative.
CONCLUSIONS: EALA represents a simple, safe and effective solution in pediatric patients with BVCI, avoiding tracheostomy, allowing early decannulation, preserving swallowing function, and maintaining good quality voice.
LEVEL OF EVIDENCE: 4 Laryngoscope, 133:2325-2332, 2023.

Citation: Trozzi M, et al. Pediatric Bilateral Vocal Cord Immobility: New Treatment With Preservation of Voice. Pediatric Bilateral Vocal Cord Immobility: New Treatment With Preservation of Voice. 2023; 133:2325-2332. doi: 10.1002/lary.30535

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36579686/
