PMID: 36582869
Title: A presentation of iatrogenic hypospadias after traditional circumcision: A case report.

Abstract: INTRODUCTION AND IMPORTANCE: Traditional circumcisions may cause complications such as hemorrhage, infection, amputations of the penis, meatal stenosis, and urethro-cutaneous fistula. In addition to all these complications, iatrogenic hypospadias, as in our case, is a rare condition. In general, complications are mild and preventable, especially in children, but when the procedure is carried out by unskilled providers, in unsterile conditions, or with inadequate equipment and supplies, severe complications are more likely to occur. Several degrees of urethral erosion, including iatrogenic hypospadias, might result from further injury. Particularly in intensive care facilities, the ventral male urethra can undergo this kind of trauma.
CASE PRESENTATION: A 4-year-old child was circumcised at the age of 3 years, and after that, he bled profusely. His parents brought him to the hospital after 4 months. On physical examination of the patient, the glans was normal but there was an opening near the glans in the distal urethra at the subcoronal level. After the pre-operative check-up, the patient was prepared for elective surgery. An incision and dissection were performed to reveal the fistula tract all around by placing marker sutures from the edges of the fistula. The fistula opening was repaired with 6/0 PDS (polydioxanone) and a second layer was created over the urethral fistula repair, and then the skin was closed with 4/0 Vicryl (polyglactin).
CLINICAL DISCUSSION: Around the world, circumcision continues to be the most common procedure done on children. Injuries to the penis may actually happen with a 1% complication incidence. A poorly placed suture at the frenulum in an effort to achieve hemostasis is the most frequent cause of the fistula. This causes strangulation and necrosis of a portion of the urethral wall, which leads to the creation of a sub glandular fistula. It is important to properly identify and treat any life-threatening injuries to the urethra as soon as possible.
CONCLUSION: Considered a medical procedure that necessitates great care, circumcision should only be carried out by qualified surgeons under sterile hospital circumstances. Most circumcision-related injuries result from clamp circumcisions (such as Mogen or Gomco), and they can range from minor loss of penile skin to more serious glans, distal urethral, and penile shaft injuries.

Citation: Mohamed SS, et al. A presentation of iatrogenic hypospadias after traditional circumcision: A case report. A presentation of iatrogenic hypospadias after traditional circumcision: A case report. 2022; 84:104872. doi: 10.1016/j.amsu.2022.104872

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36582869/
