PMID: 36587402
Title: En bloc resection of ligamentum flavum with laminotomy of the caudal lamina in the minimally invasive laminectomy: surgical anatomy and technique.

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: A CSF leak is a potential complication in a lumbar laminectomy. An analysis of the author's surgical experience identified inadvertent durotomies that occurred when resecting the ligamentum flavum at its insertion into the superior aspect of the caudal lamina. Anatomical analyses of the lumbar canal diameter demonstrate that the insertion point of the caudal ligamentum flavum is the most constrained area of the canal. The surgical technique was modified to eliminate the need for direct action in that anatomical region after the author compared the efficacy of piecemeal resection of the ligamentum flavum with en bloc resection with a laminotomy of the caudal lamina beyond the insertion point of the ligamentum flavum in the lumbar laminectomy.
METHODS: An analysis of a single surgeon's experience managing 147 consecutive patients with lumbar stenosis who underwent single-level lumbar hemilaminectomies over a 4-year period was performed. Patients were managed with either piecemeal resection (cohort 1) or en bloc resection with a laminotomy beyond the caudal insertion (cohort 2) of the ligamentum flavum.
RESULTS: Seventy-seven patients underwent piecemeal resection (cohort 1), and 70 underwent en bloc resection (cohort 2). There were 5 CSF leaks (6.4%) in cohort 1. There were no CSF leaks in cohort 2. There was a statistically significant difference in operative times between the two groups (p = 0.04), but there was no statistically significant difference in patient-reported outcomes at 6 months between the groups.
CONCLUSIONS: En bloc resection of the ligamentum flavum with a laminotomy below the caudal insertion point appears to decrease the risk of a CSF leak by working beyond the most constrained diameter of the lumbar canal to release the caudal insertion of the ligamentum flavum.

Citation: Tumialán LM. En bloc resection of ligamentum flavum with laminotomy of the caudal lamina in the minimally invasive laminectomy: surgical anatomy and technique. En bloc resection of ligamentum flavum with laminotomy of the caudal lamina in the minimally invasive laminectomy: surgical anatomy and technique. 2023; 54:E8. doi: 10.3171/2022.10.FOCUS22601

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36587402/
