PMID: 36585989
Title: The efficiency of endoscopic versus open surgical interventions in adult benign laryngotracheal stenosis: a meta-analysis.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: The optimal treatments for adult benign laryngotracheal stenosis presently remains controversial. The majority of the disadvantages of endoscopic interventions with high recurrence rate and open surgical therapy accompanied by sophisticated techniques, complication and mortality, highlights the dilemma of option for treatments.
PURPOSE: To compare endoscopic treatments with open surgical interventions in adult patients with benign laryngotracheal stenosis, analyze their clinical outcomes, recurrence, complication and mortality.
METHODS: In the meta-analysis, the databases including PubMed, Embase, Ovid and Web of Science were searched for studies reporting adult benign laryngotracheal stenosis, and clinical outcomes were compared. The duplicate publications, reviews, comments or letters, conference abstracts, case reports were excluded. The random effect model was used for calculating the pooled effect estimates.
RESULTS: Eight studies (1627 cases) referring to six retrospective and two prospective researches were ultimately included in the meta-analysis. The decreased risk estimates of recurrence rate in patients receiving open surgical interventions were detected, comparing with endoscopic interventions (P < 0.05). Subgroup analysis revealed that decreased risk estimates of restenosis rate were also observed in patients receiving open surgical interventions compared with endoscopic interventions (P < 0.05), based on prospective studies, Europe and America, < 2-year follow-up, laryngeal stenosis, stenotic length without inter-group difference or stenotic grade II alone. However, there were no statistically significant difference of recurrence rate between the two interventions (P > 0.05) based on retrospective studies, South Asia and Africa, ≥ 2-year follow-up, involving tracheal lesion, stenotic length with inter-group difference, or stenotic grades of I-IV. No notable difference in the incidence of complication or mortality were identified.
CONCLUSIONS: Open surgical interventions were more suitable for most laryngotracheal stenosis without contraindications. Endoscopic interventions are increasingly being used to treat simple laryngotracheal stenosis, as well as complex airway stenosis in carefully selected cases. Multi-center prospective randomized controlled trials should be conducted to search for the standard treatments for laryngotracheal stenosis.

Citation: Ming W, et al. The efficiency of endoscopic versus open surgical interventions in adult benign laryngotracheal stenosis: a meta-analysis. The efficiency of endoscopic versus open surgical interventions in adult benign laryngotracheal stenosis: a meta-analysis. 2023; 280:2421-2433. doi: 10.1007/s00405-022-07797-7

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36585989/
