PMID: 36580096
Title: Lower-extremity muscle wasting in patients with peripheral arterial disease: quantitative measurement and evaluation with CT.

Abstract: OBJECTIVES: Lower-extremity peripheral arterial disease (PAD) results in limb ischemia and is strongly associated with sarcopenia. This study aimed to retrospectively evaluate the association between the quantity of muscle mass in the lower extremities and the severity of vascular stenosis in PAD patients.
METHODS: Between January 2018 and August 2021, 128 patients with PAD and 53 individuals without PAD, diagnosed by computed tomography, were enrolled. The severity of stenosis of lower-extremity arteries was measured using a grading system. The muscle and fat mass areas were calculated in the abdomen at the L3 or L4 level, mid-thigh, and lower leg. Multivariable logistic regression was conducted to clarify the risk associated with low muscle mass. The difference in muscle mass between PAD and non-PAD patients was evaluated by using propensity score matching.
RESULTS: A strong positive correlation between the abdomen muscle area and leg muscle area was observed. The muscle area and muscle index of the leg were lower in PAD patients. These changes occurred earlier than in the abdomen muscle area. The group with more severe artery stenosis had more muscle wasting in the lower extremities. Greater age, female, lower BMI, and PAD were associated with low muscle mass. After propensity score matching, the leg muscle area was still lower in PAD patients.
CONCLUSIONS: There is a direct association between PAD and regional muscle wasting. This occurs earlier regionally in the lower extremities than in central muscles. Early diagnosis of PAD might prevent progressive muscle loss, improving disease outcome and quality of life.
KEY POINTS: • Peripheral arterial disease is strongly associated with sarcopenia. • Muscle wasting in the lower extremities is earlier and more prominent than that in the abdomen. • More severe arterial stenoses are associated with higher muscle wasting in the lower extremities.

Citation: Tsai PS, et al. Lower-extremity muscle wasting in patients with peripheral arterial disease: quantitative measurement and evaluation with CT. Lower-extremity muscle wasting in patients with peripheral arterial disease: quantitative measurement and evaluation with CT. 2023; 33:4063-4072. doi: 10.1007/s00330-022-09356-4

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36580096/
