PMID: 36582309
Title: Hypertrophic Obstructive Cardiomyopathy with SAM Phenomenon: A Case Report and Literature Review.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (HCM) is defined by the presence of left ventricular hypertrophy (LVH) in the absence of other potentially causative cardiac, systemic, syndromic, or metabolic diseases [1]. It is the most common genetic abnormality of the myocardium, with an anaesthetized prevalence ranging from 1:500 to as high as 1:200 [2-4]. It is the primary cause of sudden cardiac death (SCD) among teenagers and athletes.
PATIENT: A 56-year-old man presented with chest tightness and palpitations which had been occurring post-activity for the previous 6 months. The patient was advised to be admitted. He underwent echocardiography, cardiac magnetic resonance (CMR), coronary angiography (CAG) examination, and left ventriculography. He was diagnosed with hypertrophic obstructive cardiomyopathy (HOCM) with systolic anterior motion (SAM) phenomenon.
RESULTS: Echocardiography results showed that the interventricular septal thickness was 14-16 mm and that there were 2 degrees of SAM of the mitral valve. This resulted in severe stenosis of the left ventricular outflow tract (LVOT) and moderate to severe mitral insufficiency. Left ventriculography confirmed mitral regurgitation (MR) associated with HOCM with SAM phenomenon. Under the protection of a permanent pacemaker, the patient was treated with alcohol septal ablation (ASA). After discharge, the symptoms of chest tightness and palpitation did not recur.
CONCLUSION: Beneficial effects were observed when patients with HOCM and SAM were treated with ASA under the condition of a permanent pacemaker.

Citation: Cai ML and Zhong GQ. Hypertrophic Obstructive Cardiomyopathy with SAM Phenomenon: A Case Report and Literature Review. Hypertrophic Obstructive Cardiomyopathy with SAM Phenomenon: A Case Report and Literature Review. 2022; 6:515-522. doi: 10.26502/fccm.92920293

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36582309/
