PMID: 36583489
Title: [Treatment of cicatricial tracheal stenosis and tracheoesophageal fistula in patients with COVID-19 pneumonia].

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: To describe treatment of cicatricial tracheal stenosis and tracheoesophageal fistula in patients with COVID-19 pneumonia.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: There were 91 patients with cicatricial tracheal stenosis for the period from August 2020 to April 2022 (21 months). Of these, 32 (35.2%) patients had cicatricial tracheal stenosis, tracheoesophageal fistula and previous coronavirus infection with severe acute respiratory syndrome. Incidence of iatrogenic tracheal injury following ventilation for viral pneumonia in the pandemic increased by 5 times compared to pneumonia of other genesis. Majority of patients had pneumonia CT grade 4 (12 patients) and grade 3 (8 patients). Other ones had pulmonary parenchyma lesion grade 2-3 or mixed viral-bacterial pneumonia. Isolated tracheoesophageal fistula without severe cicatricial stenosis of trachea or esophagus was diagnosed in 4 patients. In other 2 patients, tracheal stenosis was combined with tracheoesophageal fistula. Eight (25%) patients had tracheostomy at the first admission. This rate was almost half that of patients treated for cicatricial tracheal stenosis in pre-pandemic period.
RESULTS: Respiratory distress syndrome occurred in 1-7 months after discharge from COVID hospital. All patients underwent surgery. In 7 patients, we preferred palliative treatment with dilation and stenting until complete rehabilitation. In 5 patients, stent was removed after 6-9 months and these ones underwent surgery. There were 3 tracheal resections with anastomosis, and 2 patients underwent tracheoplasty. Resection was performed in 3 patients due to impossible stenting. Postoperative course in these patients was standard and did not differ from that in patients without viral pneumonia. In case of tracheoesophageal fistula, palliative interventions rarely allowed isolation of trachea. Four patients underwent surgery through cervical approach. There were difficult surgeries in 2 patients with tracheoesophageal fistula and cicatricial tracheal stenosis. One of them underwent separation of fistula and tracheal resection via cervical approach at primary admission. In another patient with thoracic fistula, we initially attempted to insert occluder. However, open surgery was required later due to dislocation of device.
CONCLUSION: Absolute number of patients with tracheal stenosis, tracheoesophageal fistula and previous COVID-19 has increased by several times compared to pre-pandemic period. This is due to greater number of patients requiring ventilation with risk of tracheal injury, non-compliance with preventive protocol for tracheal injury including anti-ischemic measures during mechanical ventilation. The last fact was exacerbated by involvement of allied physicians with insufficient experience of safe ventilation in the «red zone», immunodeficiency in these patients aggravating purulent-inflammatory process in tracheal wall. The number of patients with tracheostomy was 2 times less that was associated with peculiarity of mechanical ventilation in SARS-CoV-2. Indeed, tracheostomy was a poor prognostic sign and physicians tried to avoid this procedure. Incidence of tracheoesophageal fistula in these patients increased by 2 times compared to pre-pandemic period. In subacute period of COVID-associated pneumonia, palliative measures for cicatricial tracheal stenosis and tracheoesophageal fistula should be preferred. Radical treatment should be performed after 3-6 months. Absolute indication for circular tracheal resection with anastomosis is impossible tracheal stenting and ensuring safe breathing by endoscopic methods, as well as combination of cicatricial tracheal stenosis with tracheoesophageal fistula and resistant aspiration syndrome. Incidence of postoperative complications in patients with cicatricial tracheal stenosis and previous mechanical ventilation for COVID-19 pneumonia and patients in pre-pandemic period is similar.

Citation: Parshin VD, et al. [Treatment of cicatricial tracheal stenosis and tracheoesophageal fistula in patients with COVID-19 pneumonia]. [Treatment of cicatricial tracheal stenosis and tracheoesophageal fistula in patients with COVID-19 pneumonia]. 2023; (unknown volume):13-22. doi: 10.17116/hirurgia202301113

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36583489/
