PMID: 36582658
Title: Use of QR Codes for Promoting a Home-Based Therapeutic Exercise in Patients with Lumbar Disc Herniation and Lumbar Spinal Stenosis: A Prospective Randomized Study.

Abstract: PURPOSE: In the current study, we investigated the usefulness of the quick response (QR) code linked to the source of a video of home-based therapeutic exercise to promote home-based therapeutic exercise in patients with LDH and LSS.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Forty patients with LDH and LSS were included in this study. The patients were randomly assigned to one of two groups: QR codes or control groups (20 patients per group). The QR code group received QR code stickers linked with a video that includes a demonstration on how to exercise for the back muscles. We instructed the patients to perform home-based therapeutic exercises three or more days a week. Patients in the control group were asked to perform the therapeutic exercise without providing a QR code to them. The primary outcome was the number of exercises per week. The scores of the numeric rating scale (NRS) and Oswestry disability index (ODI) were investigated as secondary outcomes.
RESULTS: The patients in the QR code group exercised for the lower back muscles on average about two times a week, and 40% of the patients in the QR code group performed the exercise three or more days a week. However, almost no patients in the control group performed therapeutic exercises. Patients in the QR code group showed significantly lower ODI scores at the 1-month and 2-month follow-ups compared with the control group. In addition, the patients who exercised ≥3 times per week showed more improvement in the disability than those who exercised <3 times per week. The NRS scores for lower back pain and radicular leg pain were not significantly different between the QR code and control groups.
CONCLUSION: We found that QR codes can be useful for encouraging patients with LDH or LSS to perform home-based therapeutic exercises.

Citation: Chang MC, et al. Use of QR Codes for Promoting a Home-Based Therapeutic Exercise in Patients with Lumbar Disc Herniation and Lumbar Spinal Stenosis: A Prospective Randomized Study. Use of QR Codes for Promoting a Home-Based Therapeutic Exercise in Patients with Lumbar Disc Herniation and Lumbar Spinal Stenosis: A Prospective Randomized Study. 2022; 15:4065-4073. doi: 10.2147/JPR.S391735

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36582658/
