PMID: 36582595
Title: Acute left main coronary occlusion after transcatheter aortic valve implantation: life-saving intervention using the snare technique-a case report.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Transcatheter aortic valve implantation (TAVI) has rapidly evolved and changed the field of structural cardiovascular intervention. Its advances lead to a marked reduction in the risk of complications and improved outcomes. However, TAVI is still associated with potential serious complications.
CASE SUMMARY: A 73-year-old man with severe aortic stenosis underwent TAVI using a 34-mm self-expanding aortic bioprosthesis. After valve deployment, the patient rapidly progressed to cardiac arrest. Acute left main occlusion, due to high valve implantation, was promptly recognized and advanced life support immediately initiated. Concomitantly, the valve was successfully retrieved toward the ascending aorta using the snare technique, resulting in immediate restoration of flow and successful cardiopulmonary resuscitation. Subsequently, a 29-mm balloon-expandable aortic bioprosthesis was uneventfully implanted. After TAVI, the patient had a remarkable clinical evolution and was discharged home at hospitalization day five without relevant electrocardiographic nor echocardiographic disturbances. At six-month follow-up, the patient remains asymptomatic and transthoracic echocardiography revealed a normofunctional aortic bioprosthesis with preserved left ventricular ejection fraction.
DISCUSSION: Acute coronary occlusion is a rare and life-threating complication of TAVI that may be prevented with accurate procedure planning. Pre-procedural computed tomography angiography is essential for a comprehensive patient evaluation, allowing appropriate valve selection, a key factor for successful management. Self-expandable valve retrieval with snare technique can be an appropriate strategy for the management of this complication. This case highlights the importance of performing these procedures in highly experienced centres and with fully equipped catheterization laboratories to allow timely interventions when facing unexpected events.

Citation: Lopes PM, et al. Acute left main coronary occlusion after transcatheter aortic valve implantation: life-saving intervention using the snare technique-a case report. Acute left main coronary occlusion after transcatheter aortic valve implantation: life-saving intervention using the snare technique-a case report. 2023; 7:ytac469. doi: 10.1093/ehjcr/ytac469

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36582595/
