PMID: 36590739
Title: Immediate impact of coronary artery bypass graft surgery on regional myocardial perfusion: Results from the Collaborative Pilot Study to Determine the Correlation Between Intraoperative Observations Using Spy Near-Infrared Imaging and Cardiac Catheterization Laboratory Physiological Assessment of Lesion Severity.

Abstract: OBJECTIVES: Coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG) is performed using anatomic guidance. Data connecting the physiologic significance of the coronary vessel stenosis to the acute physiologic response to grafting are lacking. The Collaborative Pilot Study to Determine the Correlation Between Intraoperative Observations Using Spy Near-Infrared Imaging and Cardiac Catheterization Laboratory Physiological Assessment of Lesion Severity study is the first to compare preintervention coronary physiology with the acute regional myocardial perfusion change (RMP-QC) at CABG in a per-graft analysis.
METHODS: Non-emergent patients undergoing diagnostic catheterization suitable for multivessel CABG were enrolled. Synergy between Percutaneous Coronary Intervention with Taxus score, fractional flow reserve (FFR), instantaneous wave free ratio (iFR), and quantitative coronary angiography was documented in 75 epicardial coronary arteries, with 62 angiographically intermediate and 13 severe stenoses. At CABG, near-infrared fluorescence analysis quantified the relative change (post- vs pregrafting, termed RMP-QC) in the grafted vessel's perfusion territory. Scatter plots were constructed for RMP-QC versus quantitative coronary angiography and RMP-QC versus FFR/iFR. Exact quadrant randomization test for randomness was used.
RESULTS: There was no relationship between RMP-QC and quantitative coronary angiography percent diameter stenosis, whether all study vessels were included (P = .949) or vessels with core-lab quantitative coronary angiography only (P = .922). A significant nonrandom association between RMP-QC and FFR (P = .025), as well as between RMP-QC and iFR (P = .008), was documented. These associations remained when excluding vessels with assigned FFR and iFR values (P = .0092 and P = .0006 for FFR and iFR, respectively).
CONCLUSIONS: The Collaborative Pilot Study to Determine the Correlation Between Intraoperative Observations Using Spy Near-Infrared Imaging and Cardiac Catheterization Laboratory Physiological Assessment of Lesion Severity study demonstrates there is no association between angiographic coronary stenosis severity and the acute perfusion change after grafting; there is an association between functional stenosis severity and absolute increase in regional myocardial perfusion after CABG.

Citation: Buch AN, et al. Immediate impact of coronary artery bypass graft surgery on regional myocardial perfusion: Results from the Collaborative Pilot Study to Determine the Correlation Between Intraoperative Observations Using Spy Near-Infrared Imaging and Cardiac Catheterization Laboratory Physiological Assessment of Lesion Severity. Immediate impact of coronary artery bypass graft surgery on regional myocardial perfusion: Results from the Collaborative Pilot Study to Determine the Correlation Between Intraoperative Observations Using Spy Near-Infrared Imaging and Cardiac Catheterization Laboratory Physiological Assessment of Lesion Severity. 2022; 12:158-176. doi: 10.1016/j.xjon.2022.08.012

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36590739/
