PMID: 36599430
Title: Current Treatment Results of Intracranial Carotid Artery Dissection Causing Cerebral Ischemia: A Japanese Nationwide Survey.

Abstract: Intracranial carotid artery dissection causing cerebral ischemia is a rare but important cause of cerebral infarction in children and adolescents. Although endovascular therapy has been reported to be effective, questions regarding the indications for intervention are yet to be addressed. Therefore, this study aimed to evaluate factors related to clinical outcomes through a nationwide survey. Overall, 35 neurosurgical centers reported patients within 2 weeks after ischemic onset due to intracranial carotid artery dissection causing cerebral ischemia treated between January 2015 and December 2020. Data on clinical and radiological findings were statistically analyzed. Twenty-eight patients met the inclusion criteria. The median age was 36 years (range, 7-59 years), without sex differences. Headache at onset was documented in 60.7% of the patients. Dissection findings were categorized into stenosis (71.4%) or occlusion (28.6%). Initial treatments, including various antithrombotic agent combinations in 23 (82.1%) patients, effectively improved or prevented aggravation in half of the patients. The patients with stenotic dissection were significantly more likely to experience aggravation during the initial treatment than did those with occlusive dissection (P = 0.03). In addition, the patients with moderate to severe neurological deficits on admission had poorer outcomes at discharge more frequently than did those with mild neurological deficits on admission. Eight patients undergoing endovascular therapy had no procedural complications or further aggravation after intervention. In conclusion, patients with intracranial carotid dissection causing cerebral ischemia who had a stenotic dissection were at risk of further aggravation, and endovascular therapy effectively improved or prevented aggravation.

Citation: Shimizu H, et al. Current Treatment Results of Intracranial Carotid Artery Dissection Causing Cerebral Ischemia: A Japanese Nationwide Survey. Current Treatment Results of Intracranial Carotid Artery Dissection Causing Cerebral Ischemia: A Japanese Nationwide Survey. 2023; 63:80-89. doi: 10.2176/jns-nmc.2022-0249

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36599430/
