PMID: 36597004
Title: Hybrid esophagogastric tube anastomosis after minimally invasive McKeown esophagectomy to prevent stenosis in patients with esophageal cancer.

Abstract: PURPOSE: The use of a small circular stapler has been reported to increase the incidence of benign anastomotic stenosis in reconstruction. In circular stapling anastomosis after esophagectomy, the anastomotic lumen is dependent on the size of the esophagus and the replacement organ. We developed a new and foolproof method to prevent stenosis in esophagogastric tube anastomosis for patients with esophageal cancer that is not dependent on operator skill.
METHODS: Seven patients with esophageal squamous cell carcinoma underwent minimally invasive McKeown esophagectomy in our hospital. Esophagogastric tube anastomosis was tried for all patients using the novel "hybrid esophagogastric tube anastomosis" technique. A 21-mm circular stapler was applied to perform an end-to-side anastomosis between the cervical esophagus and the posterior wall of the gastric tube. Then, a 30-mm linear stapler was positioned in the esophagogastric anastomosis formed by the 21-mm circular stapler with the anvil fork inserted into the esophagus and the cartridge fork inserted into the gastric tube. A supplementary side-to-side anastomosis of appropriately 15 mm was created. Afterward, the entry hole was closed with a linear stapler.
RESULTS: The hybrid esophagogastric tube anastomosis was successful in all seven patients receiving it between June 2020 and March 2022. No postoperative complications related to this anastomosis were observed in any of the patients. Five patients underwent follow-up gastrointestinal endoscopy at 6 months after esophagectomy. No patient had an anastomotic stenosis.
CONCLUSIONS: Hybrid esophagogastric tube anastomosis can be performed easily and safely and can reduce the complications associated with anastomosis.

Citation: Fujimoto D, et al. Hybrid esophagogastric tube anastomosis after minimally invasive McKeown esophagectomy to prevent stenosis in patients with esophageal cancer. Hybrid esophagogastric tube anastomosis after minimally invasive McKeown esophagectomy to prevent stenosis in patients with esophageal cancer. 2023; 408:7. doi: 10.1007/s00423-022-02743-x

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36597004/
