PMID: 36592074
Title: A Systematic Review of Benefits and Risks of Fetal Surgery for Congenital Cardiac Defects Such as Pulmonary Valve Stenosis and Critical Aortic Stenosis.

Abstract: INTRODUCTION: Congenital heart diseases (CHDs) constitute the most prevalent congenital pathology, and they are a consequence of structural and functional abnormalities during fetal development. The etiology of CHD involves the interaction of genetic and environmental factors. Fetal cardiac surgery aims at preventing natural pathways of CHD in utero, mitigating progression to more complex abnormalities. The goal of this review was to demonstrate the benefits and risks of fetal interventions in the two most prevalent CHDs, pulmonary stenosis and pulmonary atresia with an intact ventricular septum, but also critical aortic stenosis and hypoplastic left heart syndrome.
METHODS: Original and relevant articles were selected by meta-aggregation to perform a qualitative analysis of fetal cardiac interventions for pulmonary stenosis and critical aortic stenosis. The Joanna Briggs Institute's Qualitative Assessment and Review Instrument (or JBI-QARI) was used for data quality appraisal.
RESULTS: Of 61 potential articles, 13 were selected, and nine were finally included. Discussion: The present review demonstrated that fetal cardiac surgery increases right ventricular growth and hemodynamic flow in pulmonary stenosis, whereas in critical aortic stenosis it enables growth of the left ventricle and increases left ventricular pressure. However, it has a high complication rate, along with considerable morbidity and mortality.
CONCLUSION: The benefits of fetal cardiac surgery for pulmonary stenosis and critical aortic stenosis are well-described in the literature; however, there is a significant risk of complications which can be reduced by the surgeon's technical expertise and well-structured hospital facilities.

Citation: Diniz AMB, et al. A Systematic Review of Benefits and Risks of Fetal Surgery for Congenital Cardiac Defects Such as Pulmonary Valve Stenosis and Critical Aortic Stenosis. A Systematic Review of Benefits and Risks of Fetal Surgery for Congenital Cardiac Defects Such as Pulmonary Valve Stenosis and Critical Aortic Stenosis. 2023; 38:398-404. doi: 10.21470/1678-9741-2022-0273

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36592074/
