PMID: 36595870
Title: Extension of decompression to C2 doesn't affect the spinal sagittal parameters compared with standard open-door laminoplasty.

Abstract: We modified and extended laminoplasty to the upper cervical spine on patients with canal stenosis associated with upper cervical spinal ossified lesions. However, whether the extended decompression range of laminoplasty can cause further effects on cervical stability is rarely studied at present. A retrospective study to analyze the relationship between the surgical levels and cervical sagittal parameters effects was performed in patients with cervical spondylosis myelopathy who had undergone posterior cervical expansive open-door laminoplasty with/without extending to C2. In total, 64 patients were divided into 2 groups according to the surgical levels. Radiologic outcomes of occipito-cervical angle (C0-2 Cobb angle), CL C27 Cobb angle, cervical sagittal vertical alignment, T1-Slope (T1S), T1S minus CL (T1S-CL), spino-cranial angle and center of the sella turcica-C7 SVA (St-SVA) were evaluated on lateral X-rays of the cervical spine at pre-operation, post-operation, and 2-year follow-up. The patient's health-related quality of life was obtained including neck disability index, Japanese orthopaedic association scores, and visual analog scale. Changes in sagittal parameters were observed in both groups after surgery. T1S, cervical sagittal vertical alignment, and T1S-CL significantly increased and CL decreased in 2 groups of patients postoperative. After a 2-year follow-up period, the C0-2 Cobb angle was found to increase compared to preoperative records. In addition, there were no significant differences in spino-cranial angle and st-SVA between preoperative and 2 years follow-up measurements. Health-related quality of life was improved in both groups and was not significantly different. Herein, the parameters indicated a tilting forward of the lower cervical spine and a more lordotic upper cervical spine to maintain a horizontal gaze in patients. However, C2 to 7 laminoplasty was performed to achieve satisfactory clinical results without significantly changing the spinal sagittal parameters.

Citation: Wang W, et al. Extension of decompression to C2 doesn't affect the spinal sagittal parameters compared with standard open-door laminoplasty. Extension of decompression to C2 doesn't affect the spinal sagittal parameters compared with standard open-door laminoplasty. 2022; 101:e32532. doi: 10.1097/MD.0000000000032532

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36595870/
