PMID: 36609237
Title: Application of 3D printed pelvic fracture related urethra and surrounding tissue as preoperative planning model.

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: Urethral stenosis caused by pelvic fracture urethral injury (PFUI) is a complex urological disease, especially for the redo cased. However, to find the proximal end of the posterior urethra, and to avoid injury to the rectum and to forecast to remove the inferior pubic margin are two key points for a successful surgery. These steps can be challenging for even the most experienced urologists. This study is to describe a new technique for understanding the three-dimensional (3D) anatomy of the urethra, which will also aid in surgical planning and simplify urethroplasty.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Three patients underwent routine urethroscopy, X ray urethrography and contrast CT urethrography. The 3D images were then reconstructed, and the data were transmitted to a 3D printer. 3D models were printed with polyacrylic acid to simulate the anatomical structure and relationship of urethral stenosis with pubic symphysis and rectum. Various diagnosis methods were compared with the condition in surgery. The patients and trainee questionnaires were performed.
RESULTS: Three models of urethral CT were obtained. These models were presented to patients and trainee doctors along with routine urethroscopy, urethrography, and urethral CT. The scores of patients and trainee question forms demonstrated that the 3D printed urethral stenosis model of pelvic fracture has obvious advantages in urethral adjacency and ease of understanding. The 3D printed urethras were easy to show the pubic symphysis and simulate its excision and exposure of urethra. The model could show the precise distance from urethra to rectum to prevent the rectum injury in surgery.
CONCLUSIONS: 3D printing technology can be applied to the preoperative evaluation of urethral stenosis caused by PFUI. It can be auxiliary to understand the anatomical structure of the posterior urethra, the direction of urethral displacement, protecting the rectum and the forecasting for pubectomy. It is especially helpful for the accurate preoperative planning of some complex urethral stenosis and redo cases.

Citation: Zhang K, et al. Application of 3D printed pelvic fracture related urethra and surrounding tissue as preoperative planning model. Application of 3D printed pelvic fracture related urethra and surrounding tissue as preoperative planning model. 2023; 23:1. doi: 10.1186/s12894-022-01165-7

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36609237/
