PMID: 36604164
Title: Impact of frailty on disease-specific health status in cardiovascular disease.

Abstract: Frailty is a syndrome of older age that reflects an impaired physiological reserve and decreased ability to recover from medical stressors. While the impact of frailty on mortality in cardiovascular disease has been well described, its impact on cardiovascular disease-specific health status-cardiac symptoms, physical functioning and quality of life-has been less well studied. In this review, we summarise the impact of frailty on health status outcomes across different cardiovascular conditions. In heart failure, frail patients have markedly impaired disease-specific health status and are at risk for subsequent health status deteriorations. However, frail patients have similar or even greater health status improvements with interventions for heart failure, such as cardiac rehabilitation or guideline-directed medical therapy. In valvular heart disease, the impact of frailty on disease-specific health status is of even greater concern since management involves physiologically taxing procedures that can worsen health status. Frailty increases the risk of poor health status outcomes after transcatheter aortic valve intervention or surgical aortic valve replacement for aortic stenosis, but there is no evidence that frail patients benefit more from one procedure versus another. In both heart failure and valvular heart disease, health status improvements may reverse frailty, highlighting the overlap between cardiovascular disease and frailty and emphasising that treatment should typically not be withheld based on the presence of frailty alone. Meanwhile, data are limited on the impact of frailty on health status outcomes in the treatment of coronary artery disease, peripheral artery disease and atrial fibrillation, and requires further research.

Citation: Nguyen DD and Arnold SV. Impact of frailty on disease-specific health status in cardiovascular disease. Impact of frailty on disease-specific health status in cardiovascular disease. 2023; 109:977-983. doi: 10.1136/heartjnl-2022-321631

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36604164/
