PMID: 36600800
Title: Obesity-induced vena cava compression syndrome: a case report of a rare precipitant of a type 2 myocardial infarction in a patient with critical aortic stenosis.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Obesity is a global health problem of increasing prevalence with a broad range of multisystem complications. An under-recognized complication of severe obesity is the potential haemodynamic compromise that may arise due to pathological external compression of the inferior vena cava whilst lying in the supine position, a phenomenon known as obesity-induced vena cava compression syndrome.
CASE SUMMARY: A 56-year-old independent woman presented to a rural Australian hospital for routine dressing care for bilateral lymphoedema on a background of class III morbid obesity (weight 197 kg, body mass index 68.55 kg/m3) and aortic stenosis. Whilst laid in the supine position with both legs elevated to aid lower limb venous return, the patient developed angina with associated troponin rise (15 to 75 to 332 ng/L) and inferolateral territory ischaemic changes on electrocardiogram. The pain then resolved shortly after restoring the patient to the upright position. A transthoracic echocardiogram showed critical bicuspid aortic stenosis. Computerized tomography coronary angiogram showed no significant coronary artery disease. Following multidisciplinary discussions, a transcatheter aortic valve insertion was performed via a transfemoral approach. Post-procedure, she went into atrial fibrillation, she was cardioverted into a sinus rhythm with new left bundle branch block. There were no complications otherwise, and the patient was discharged home following a brief period of convalescence.
DISCUSSION: We describe a case of suspected obesity-induced vena cava compression syndrome precipitating a type 2 myocardial infarction in a pre-load dependent patient with critical bicuspid valve aortic stenosis. This case highlights a potential haemodynamic consequence of morbid obesity in the supine position.

Citation: Sellers AM, et al. Obesity-induced vena cava compression syndrome: a case report of a rare precipitant of a type 2 myocardial infarction in a patient with critical aortic stenosis. Obesity-induced vena cava compression syndrome: a case report of a rare precipitant of a type 2 myocardial infarction in a patient with critical aortic stenosis. 2023; 7:ytac465. doi: 10.1093/ehjcr/ytac465

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36600800/
