PMID: 36611152
Title: Case of left ventricular thrombus managed with thrombectomy with left ventricular reconstruction in a patient who had coronavirus disease 2019 infection.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Intracardiac thrombus is relatively rare in patients with coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19). However, if it occurs, thrombotic complications are likely to develop. In this case, we performed a successful thrombectomy on a patient who developed left ventricular thrombus after COVID-19 infection without complications.
CASE PRESENTATION: A 52-year-old man sought medical care due to fever, dyspnea, and abnormalities in the taste and smell that persisted for 2 weeks. The patient was diagnosed with COVID-19 and was treated with remdesivir, baricitinib, and heparin. Three weeks after hospitalization, electrocardiogram revealed angina pectoris, and cardiac catherization showed left anterior descending coronary artery stenosis. In addition, global hypokinesis and a thrombus at the left ventricular apex were observed on echocardiography. Left ventricular reconstruction concomitant with coronary artery bypass grafting was performed. A thrombus in the left ventricle was resected via left apical ventriculotomy, and the bovine pericardium was covered and sutured on the infarction site to exclude it. The patient was extubated a day after surgery and was transferred to another hospital for recuperation after 20 days. He did not present with complications.
CONCLUSIONS: Thrombotic events could be prevented via thrombectomy with left ventricular reconstruction using an intraventricular patch to exclude the residual thrombus.

Citation: Suzuki K, et al. Case of left ventricular thrombus managed with thrombectomy with left ventricular reconstruction in a patient who had coronavirus disease 2019 infection. Case of left ventricular thrombus managed with thrombectomy with left ventricular reconstruction in a patient who had coronavirus disease 2019 infection. 2023; 18:8. doi: 10.1186/s13019-023-02108-5

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36611152/
