PMID: 36614884
Title: Drug-Coated Balloon versus Plain Balloon Angioplasty in the Treatment of Infrainguinal Vein Bypass Stenosis: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis.

Abstract: The optimal endovascular therapy for vein graft stenosis (VGS) following infrainguinal arterial bypass is yet to be established. Drug-coated balloons (DCB) have rapidly improved the inferior patency outcomes of angioplasty using a conventional plain balloon (PB). This study compares the efficacy of DCBs and PBs for the treatment of infrainguinal VGS. This systematic review and meta-analysis was performed according to the PRISMA statement. Multiple electronic searches were conducted in consultation with a health science librarian in September 2022. Studies describing the comparative outcomes of angioplasty using DCBs and PBs in the treatment of infrainguinal VGS were eligible. Datasets from one randomized controlled trial and two cohort studies with a total of 179 patients were identified. The results indicated no significant difference in target lesion revascularization between DCBs and PBs (OR, 0.64; 95% CI, 0.32-1.28; p = 0.21), with no significant heterogeneity between studies. Additionally, differences in primary patency, assisted primary patency, secondary patency, and graft occlusion were not significant. Subgroup analysis showed similar effects for different DCB devices. In conclusion, DCBs showed no significant benefit in the treatment of VGS compared to PBs. Given the small population size of this meta-analysis, future trials with a larger population are desired.

Citation: Isaji T, et al. Drug-Coated Balloon versus Plain Balloon Angioplasty in the Treatment of Infrainguinal Vein Bypass Stenosis: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis. Drug-Coated Balloon versus Plain Balloon Angioplasty in the Treatment of Infrainguinal Vein Bypass Stenosis: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis. 2022; 12:(unknown pages). doi: 10.3390/jcm12010087

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36614884/
