PMID: 36622475
Title: Atrophy in subcortical gray matter in adult patients with moyamoya disease.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Acute cerebrovascular accidents, long-term hypoperfusion, and/or remote neuronal degeneration may lead to structural alterations in patients with moyamoya disease (MMD). This study sought to comprehensively investigate the distribution characteristics of subcortical gray matter volume and their correlations with angiographic changes in the intracranial artery in patients with MMD.
METHOD: One hundred forty-two patients with MMD and 142 age- and sex-matched healthy controls underwent 3-dimensional high-resolution structural magnetic resonance imaging. Volumes of subcortical gray matter and subregions of the hippocampus and amygdala were calculated, and the degree of stenosis/occlusion of intracranial arteries in patients with MMD was evaluated on MR angiography.
RESULTS: Volume reductions in the thalamus, caudate, putamen, hippocampus, amygdala, pallidum, and nucleus accumbens were found in patients with MMD. Hippocampal subfields and amygdala subnuclei in patients with MMD showed distinct vulnerability, and morphological alterations in specific subregions were more obvious than in the whole hippocampus/amygdala. Volume loss in several subcortical areas was related to disease duration and intracranial arterial changes.
CONCLUSIONS: Our findings revealed structural alteration patterns of subcortical gray matter in MMD. The specific atrophy in subregions of the hippocampus and the amygdala suggested potential cognitive and affective impairments in MMD, which warrants further investigation. Chronic cerebral hemodynamic alterations in MMD may play a pivotal role in morphological changes in subcortical areas.

Citation: Zuo Z, et al. Atrophy in subcortical gray matter in adult patients with moyamoya disease. Atrophy in subcortical gray matter in adult patients with moyamoya disease. 2023; 44:1709-1717. doi: 10.1007/s10072-022-06583-x

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36622475/
