PMID: 36622519
Title: SARS-CoV-2 infection and SLE: endothelial dysfunction, atherosclerosis, and thrombosis.

Abstract: An increased risk of atherosclerotic and thrombotic complications characterizes connective tissue diseases. Endothelial dysfunction is the basis for the initiation and progression of atherosclerosis and thrombosis. We present systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) as a model rheumatic disease with endothelial dysfunction and discuss its mechanisms, factors that influence the early onset and rapid progression of atherosclerosis, and the increased risk of thromboembolic events. We focus on established methods to improve endothelium function, including statins, antiplatelet, and antithrombotic therapy. Hypercoagulable and hypofibrinolitic states and a hyperinflammatory response characterize severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) infection. Several pathogenic mechanisms are typical for an acute phase of Covid-19 post-Covid syndrome and connective tissue diseases: endothelial dysfunction, elevated antiphospholipid antibody titer, activation of the complement system, and formation of extracellular neutrophil traps (NET). The current review discusses the mechanisms underlying SLE and the COVID-19 in the context of endothelial function, atherosclerosis, and thrombosis (Graphical abstract). Key Points • The pathophysiology of systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) and Covid-19 shows some similarities, such as endothelial cell activation and dysfunction, the activation of complementary systems, the presence of antiphospholipid antibodies, and the formation of extracellular neutrophil traps. • Autoimmunity in both diseases creates the basis for hyperinflammatory, hypercoagulable, and hypofibrinolitic states and their thromboembolic complications. • This paper presents our perspective on the mechanisms behind the cardiovascular manifestations of SLE and COVID-19, with a particular emphasis on endothelial dysfunction. Covid-19 and systemic lupus erythematosus-potential similarities in pathophysiology. Figures of the panel illustrate the clinical manifestations of endothelial dysfunction, atherosclerosis, and thromboembolism, including coronary artery disease ([A] coronary angiography with left anterior descending artery stenosis and [B] scintigraphy with reduced perfusion in the myocardial apical segments), stroke ([C] carotid angiography, left carotid artery occlusion) and pulmonary embolism ([D]computed tomography with thrombus in the right pulmonary artery).

Citation: Płazak W and Drabik L. SARS-CoV-2 infection and SLE: endothelial dysfunction, atherosclerosis, and thrombosis. SARS-CoV-2 infection and SLE: endothelial dysfunction, atherosclerosis, and thrombosis. 2023; 42:2691-2702. doi: 10.1007/s10067-022-06497-1

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36622519/
