PMID: 36629281
Title: Clonal heamatopoiesis and associated cardiovascular diseases.

Abstract: Cancer and cardiovascular disease share several risk factors. Clonal heamatopoiesis, a novel risk factor associated with both diseases, has received increasing attention in the fields of cardiology, heamatology and oncology. Clonal heamatopoiesis of indeterminate potential refers to the presence of at least one driver mutation in the heamatopoietic cells of peripheral blood without heamatological malignancy. Clonal heamatopoiesis of indeterminate potential is a common age-related condition that affects up to 60% of individuals aged > 80 years. Importantly, clonal heamatopoiesis of indeterminate potential carriers have a 2- to 4-fold higher risk of developing cardiovascular disease than non-carriers. Therefore, we performed an up-to-date review of clonal heamatopoiesis and its association with various forms of cardiovascular disease, including atherosclerotic disease, heart failure, aortic stenosis and pulmonary hypertension. In addition, we reviewed experimental studies that examined the causality and directionality between clonal heamatopoiesis and cardiovascular disease. Lastly, we discussed future research directions that will aid in the design of personalized therapies and preventive strategies for individuals with clonal heamatopoiesis. This review showed that clonal heamatopoiesis of indeterminate potential is a common condition, especially in older patients, and is associated with an increased risk of cardiovascular disease and worse prognosis. However, further research is needed to determine whether anti-inflammatory therapies or therapies that can reduce or eliminate clone size are effective in preventing cardiovascular disease in patients with clonal heamatopoiesis of indeterminate potential.

Citation: Tajiri K, et al. Clonal heamatopoiesis and associated cardiovascular diseases. Clonal heamatopoiesis and associated cardiovascular diseases. 2023; 53:187-194. doi: 10.1093/jjco/hyac210

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36629281/
