PMID: 36628042
Title: Successful Desensitization to the Radiocontrast Material Iohexol (Omnipaque™).

Abstract: Adverse reactions to radiocontrast media (RCM) are rare and occur predominantly in association with intravenous administration but may also occur with intra-arterial and nonvascular injections (e.g., retrograde pyelography, intra-articular injections) of RCM. This article reports the case of a 52-year-old lady who was known to have amyloidosis secondary to rheumatoid arthritis and was on regular renal replacement therapy. She was under follow-up for regular angioplasties to manage the central vein stenosis that was affecting her right brachiocephalic arteriovenous fistula (AVF) and was referred to our Immunology service when she developed an allergic reaction after her AVF angioplasty (central venoplasty). Despite being dialysed immediately post-angioplasty, she complained of skin rash and itching with hoarseness of voice that developed almost six to eight hours post-angioplasty. We decided to arrange the iodinated non-ionic iso-osmolar contrast agent iodixanol (Visipaque™) for her instead, as it is known to be better tolerated in patients with reactions to Omnipaque™ due to its lower osmolarity as compared to Omnipaque™. However, since it was the first time to request this contrast in our hospital, it was not possible due to logistical reasons. It was necessary that our patient continued to undergo angioplasty every three months, however, she was developing more severe and earlier symptoms with each subsequent exposure to the radiocontrast medium. After her latest reaction of generalized itching and angioedema with shortness of breath during the procedure despite premedication, it was decided for her to undergo desensitization to Omnipaque™. In the absence of a published protocol for this, we used a protocol used for desensitization to Visipaque™. She showed an excellent response and completed her remaining angioplasties until Visipaque™ became available. Hence, desensitization to Omnipaque™ using the published protocol to Visipaque™ is likely to help patients allergic to Omnipaque™ or where Visipaque™ is not available or non-affordable in low/middle-income countries.

Citation: Saad A, et al. Successful Desensitization to the Radiocontrast Material Iohexol (Omnipaque™). Successful Desensitization to the Radiocontrast Material Iohexol (Omnipaque™). 2022; 14:e32356. doi: 10.7759/cureus.32356

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36628042/
