PMID: 36628196
Title: Clinical value of microemboli combined with cerebrospinal fluid inflammatory factor level monitoring in predicting recurrent stroke of middle cerebral artery stenosis.

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the clinical value of microemboli combined with cerebrospinal fluid inflammatory factor level monitoring in the prediction of recurrent stroke in middle cerebral artery stenosis.
METHODS: This is a retrospective study. Patients (n=170) who were hospitalized in the Department of Neurology of the First People's Hospital of Jiangxia District from June 2019 to January 2021 with cerebral infarction or transient ischemic attack were included in the study. Among them, 85 patients with ischemic attack were divided into the non-recurrent stroke group (primary onset, n=40) and the recurrent stroke group (history of cerebral infarction or transient ischemic attack within 5 years prior to the onset, n=45). Routine blood biochemical tests were performed using the Olympus 5800 automated chemical analyzer. Cerebrospinal fluid levels of inflammatory factors (TNF-α, IL-6) were detected by ELISA kits. Special Doppler hyperintensities for microemboli in cerebral blood flow were tested by transcranial Doppler ultrasound.
RESULTS: The mean age, statins and LDL-C were higher in the recurrent stroke group than the non-recurrent stroke group (P<0.05). The levels of cerebrospinal fluid TNF-α, PCT, CRP and IL-6 in the recurrent stroke group were higher than the non-recurrent stroke group (P<0.05). The proportion of grade 0 microemboli in the recurrent stroke group was lower than the non-recurrent stroke group (P<0.05), and the proportion of grade 1, 2, 3, 4 and 5 microemboli was higher than the non-recurrent stroke group (P<0.05). The positive rate of microemboli in the recurrent stroke group was higher than the non-recurrent stroke group (P<0.05). The accuracy rate of microemboli combined with cerebrospinal fluid inflammatory factor level monitoring in the recurrent stroke group for the prediction of recurrent stroke due to middle cerebral artery stenosis was higher than that in the non-recurrent stroke group (P<0.05). Increased age, statin use, microembolization, and increased LDL-C, TNF-α, PCT, CRP and IL-6 levels were independent risk factors.
CONCLUSION: Microemboli combined with cerebrospinal fluid inflammatory factor level monitoring can increase the detection rate of recurrent stroke in middle cerebral artery stenosis and prevent vascular events to a great extent.

Citation: Fu X and Zhong K. Clinical value of microemboli combined with cerebrospinal fluid inflammatory factor level monitoring in predicting recurrent stroke of middle cerebral artery stenosis. Clinical value of microemboli combined with cerebrospinal fluid inflammatory factor level monitoring in predicting recurrent stroke of middle cerebral artery stenosis. 2022; 14:8741-8750.

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36628196/
