PMID: 36620627
Title: Radiomic analysis of enhanced CMR cine images predicts left ventricular remodeling after TAVR in patients with symptomatic severe aortic stenosis.

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: This study aimed to develop enhanced cine image-based radiomic models for non-invasive prediction of left ventricular adverse remodeling following transcatheter aortic valve replacement (TAVR) in symptomatic severe aortic stenosis.
METHODS: A total of 69 patients (male:female = 37:32, median age: 66 years, range: 47-83 years) were retrospectively recruited, and severe aortic stenosis was confirmed via transthoracic echocardiography detection. The enhanced cine images and clinical variables were collected, and three types of regions of interest (ROIs) containing the left ventricular (LV) myocardium from the short-axis view at the basal, middle, and apical LV levels were manually labeled, respectively. The radiomic features were extracted and further selected by using the least absolute shrinkage and selection operator (LASSO) regression analysis. Clinical variables were also selected through univariate regression analysis. The predictive models using logistic regression classifier were developed and validated through leave-one-out cross-validation. The model performance was evaluated with respect to discrimination, calibration, and clinical usefulness.
RESULTS: Five basal levels, seven middle levels, eight apical level radiomic features, and three clinical factors were finally selected for model development. The radiomic models using features from basal level (Rad I), middle level (Rad II), and apical level (Rad III) had achieved areas under the curve (AUCs) of 0.761, 0.909, and 0.913 in the training dataset and 0.718, 0.836, and 0.845 in the validation dataset, respectively. The performance of these radiomic models was improved after integrating clinical factors, with AUCs of the Combined I, Combined II, and Combined III models increasing to 0.906, 0.956, and 0.959 in the training dataset and 0.784, 0.873, and 0.891 in the validation dataset, respectively. All models showed good calibration, and the decision curve analysis indicated that the Combined III model had a higher net benefit than other models across the majority of threshold probabilities.
CONCLUSION: Radiomic models and combined models at the mid and apical slices showed outstanding and comparable predictive effectiveness of adverse remodeling for patients with symptomatic severe aortic stenosis after TAVR, and both models were significantly better than the models of basal slice. The cardiac magnetic resonance radiomic analysis might serve as an effective tool for accurately predicting left ventricular adverse remodeling following TAVR in patients with symptomatic severe aortic stenosis.

Citation: He W, et al. Radiomic analysis of enhanced CMR cine images predicts left ventricular remodeling after TAVR in patients with symptomatic severe aortic stenosis. Radiomic analysis of enhanced CMR cine images predicts left ventricular remodeling after TAVR in patients with symptomatic severe aortic stenosis. 2022; 9:1096422. doi: 10.3389/fcvm.2022.1096422

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36620627/
