PMID: 36627983
Title: The Use of Vigileo® Monitor in a Parturient With Severe Mitral Valve Stenosis and Severe Pulmonary Hypertension Undergoing Cesarean Section Under General Anesthesia: A Case Report and Literature Review.

Abstract: We report a case of a 35-year-old pregnant female of Afghan origin who was admitted to the intensive care unit (ICU) because of pulmonary edema development when she was in the 30th week of gestation. During the bedside examination, the transthoracic echocardiogram (TTE) revealed severe mitral valve stenosis and pulmonary hypertension. The patient went into treatment with metoprolol for the control of tachycardia and furosemide for the prevention of fluid overload. During the 32nd week of gestation, the medical council decided on a cesarean section (CS) to be carried out under general anesthesia. The anesthesiologists decided to use the Vigileo monitor (Edwards Lifesciences, Irvine, CA, USA) as it is vitally important to approach fluid administration as fluid management is challenging concerning the obstetric patient. Vigileo monitoring is based on the invasive measurement of cardiac output (CO), cardiac index (CI), stroke volume (SV), and stroke volume variation (SVV). Fluid resuscitation based on hemodynamic parameters is a key component of patient care, especially in scenarios such as cardiovascular disease. This is the first case report where a Vigileo monitor was applied to a patient with severe mitral valve stenosis and severe pulmonary hypertension undergoing a cesarean section, which was accomplished without any complications. The patient was discharged from the hospital on the 12th postoperative day, hemodynamically stable. Each immigrant woman, regardless of her financial, social, cultural, or any other situation, has the fundamental right to receive complete perinatal healthcare. Nevertheless, the most recent statistical data show that those women's access to public healthcare is insufficient, leading to high rates of maternal mortality. The international medical community has to adapt to the new multicultural environment, and health services must be provided to this vulnerable population with the appropriate level of safety.

Citation: Griva P, et al. The Use of Vigileo® Monitor in a Parturient With Severe Mitral Valve Stenosis and Severe Pulmonary Hypertension Undergoing Cesarean Section Under General Anesthesia: A Case Report and Literature Review. The Use of Vigileo® Monitor in a Parturient With Severe Mitral Valve Stenosis and Severe Pulmonary Hypertension Undergoing Cesarean Section Under General Anesthesia: A Case Report and Literature Review. 2022; 14:e32284. doi: 10.7759/cureus.32284

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36627983/
