PMID: 36633330
Title: Short-term effects of transcatheter aortic valve replacement on blood pressure and cardiac function in elderly patients with severe aortic stenosis.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Transcatheter aortic valve replacement (TAVR) is a standard treatment for elderly and high-risk patients with aortic valve stenosis (AS); however, its short-term effects on blood pressure (BP) and cardiac function are not clear. Therefore, we aimed to determine the short-term effects of TAVR in elderly patients (>75 years), who reflect the clinical situation in Japan.
METHOD AND RESULTS: Twenty-eight consecutive elderly patients with severe AS and hypertension who underwent TAVR under general anesthesia were retrospectively investigated. All patients had hypertension that was well controlled with antihypertensive drugs. Serum brain natriuretic peptide level and peak velocity in the aortic valve were significantly reduced. TAVR induces an increase in BP that requires additional antihypertensive agents. There was no correlation between the change rate of SBP and stroke volume index (SVI), but there was a positive correlation between the rate of change in pulse pressure (PP) and SVI. This tendency was particularly observed in patients with low brachial-ankle pulse wave velocity (baPWV).
CONCLUSION: We observed post-TAVR hypertension and required additional antihypertensive drugs. The increases in SVI and PP after TAVR resulted in post-TAVR hypertension. Moreover, post-TAVR hypertension is less likely to occur in elderly patients with a high baPWV, which indicates advanced arteriosclerosis.

Citation: Aoyama R, et al. Short-term effects of transcatheter aortic valve replacement on blood pressure and cardiac function in elderly patients with severe aortic stenosis. Short-term effects of transcatheter aortic valve replacement on blood pressure and cardiac function in elderly patients with severe aortic stenosis. 2023; 28:103-108. doi: 10.1097/MBP.0000000000000631

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36633330/
