PMID: 36631749
Title: Laparoscopic adrenalectomy of pheochromocytoma following management of severe aortic stenosis with transcatheter aortic valve replacement under monitored anesthesia care sedation: a case report.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Management of a patient with an active pheochromocytoma and severe aortic stenosis remains controversial. Adrenalectomy for a pheochromocytoma poses a high risk for stroke, hypertensive emergency, and mortality, compounded by the cardiovascular instability of severe aortic stenosis. In this case report, successful management of an active pheochromocytoma with concomitant severe aortic stenosis was accomplished by performing transcatheter aortic valve replacement under monitored anesthesia care prior to laparoscopic adrenalectomy.
CASE PRESENTATION: An 84-year-old woman with severe aortic stenosis (valve area 0.53 cm2) presented with a symptomatic pheochromocytoma. Transcatheter aortic valve replacement was performed under monitored anesthesia care using a judicious approach of 100 mcg fentanyl total, 4 mg total of midazolam, and a background dexmedetomidine infusion. Alpha-blockade was maintained with 10 mg total of phentolamine mesylate. Laparoscopic adrenalectomy was performed after an uncomplicated postoperative course. The perioperative course for the adrenalectomy was unremarkable and the patient was hemodynamically stable. Postoperative course was uncomplicated and the patient was discharged from the hospital after 5 days.
CONCLUSION: This case report demonstrated the successful approach of managing severe aortic stenosis through a transcatheter aortic valve replacement using monitored anesthesia care sedation prior to laparoscopic adrenalectomy of a symptomatic pheochromocytoma.

Citation: Yang L, et al. Laparoscopic adrenalectomy of pheochromocytoma following management of severe aortic stenosis with transcatheter aortic valve replacement under monitored anesthesia care sedation: a case report. Laparoscopic adrenalectomy of pheochromocytoma following management of severe aortic stenosis with transcatheter aortic valve replacement under monitored anesthesia care sedation: a case report. 2023; 23:18. doi: 10.1186/s12871-023-01977-6

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36631749/
