PMID: 36637940
Title: Case report of intracranial large vessel occlusion in glioblastoma multiforme patient after radiation therapy.

Abstract: INTRODUCTION: Vasculopathy of the large arteries is a prominent complication of radiotherapy. Radiation-induced cerebral vasculopathy can cause arterial stenosis/occlusion, cerebral hemorrhage, and aneurysm formation. We report a cases of glioblastoma multiforme (GBM) with occlusive radiation vasculopathy (ORV).
CASE PRESENTATION: This 28-year-old patient who suffered from GBM had surgery for cytoreduction and received postoperative CCRT. We adopted the radiotherapy and oncology group radiation guideline. This patient had cerebrovascular accident episodes without any known risk. Therefore, ORV was highly suspected and vascular stenosis was confirmed using magnetic resonance angiography (MRA) or digital subtraction angiography. Extracranial-intracranial bypass was performed and patency was confirmed. The patient had not suffered from recurrent symptoms of transient ischemic attack or ischemic stroke for 1.5 years.
DISCUSSION: This is the first article to report bypass surgery for GBM patients. Although the median survival rate of GBM is approximately 15 months, the short survival time may be sufficient for occlusive vasculopathy to occur. Regular follow-up magnetic resonance imaging assessments are recommended, as is MRA as a screening tool for the early diagnosis of ORV.The Stenting versus Aggressive Medical Management for Preventing Recurrent Stroke in Intracranial Stenosis (SAMMPRIS) trial focused on atherosclerotic intracranial arterial stenosis, revealing that aggressive medical management was superior to stenting for secondary stroke prevention; however, it did not mention radiation-induced vasculopathy. Bypass surgery has yielded some positive outcomes. In the absence of contraindications, antiplatelet or anticoagulation agents could be added, and bypass surgery could be performed because there was no stent in the distal intracranial arteries.
CONCLUSION: MRA is a potential screening tool for ORV in GBM patients and bypass surgery could be performed to improve brain perfusion. Bypass surgery could help patient with occlusive radiation vasculopathy.

Citation: Chien-Tung Y and Chen CC. Case report of intracranial large vessel occlusion in glioblastoma multiforme patient after radiation therapy. Case report of intracranial large vessel occlusion in glioblastoma multiforme patient after radiation therapy. 2023; 102:e32682. doi: 10.1097/MD.0000000000032682

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36637940/
