PMID: 36635745
Title: Detrimental consequences after intimal disruption of subclavian artery during transcathether aortic valve implantation.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: TAVI via the left subclavian artery is considered a bail-out strategy in cases where a transfemoral approach is not feasible. However, since this route is only scarcely used, major complications can arise. We describe such an adverse course and present our proceeding.
CASE PRESENTATION: A 65-year-old man with severe aortic valve stenosis (AS) was referred for transcatheter aortic valve implantation (TAVI) via left subclavian artery. After uneventful deployment of the TAVI prosthesis, consequent valve assessment with transeosophageal echocardiography and angiography showed a highly mobile and tubular structure shifting within the valve. We went for a surgical extraction via sternotomy on cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB). A 6 cm longish intimal cylinder was hassle-free extracted. 4 days postoperatively the left sided radial pulse was missing. In a subsequent computed tomography angiography (CTA) scan a proximal dissection as well as an intimal flap, causing a subtotal stenosis of the left subclavian artery, was detected. Consecutively the intimal cylinder was removed using a Fogarty-balloon. Pre-discharge control revealed recurrence of peripheral radial pulse and an unimpeded function of the TAVI prosthesis. The patient presented no sequela at discharge.
CONCLUSION: Though TAVI is a well-advanced technique complications are not completely avertable. It is thus advisable to have patients discussed in the heart team encompassing all potentially involved specialties.

Citation: Reuthebuch OT, et al. Detrimental consequences after intimal disruption of subclavian artery during transcathether aortic valve implantation. Detrimental consequences after intimal disruption of subclavian artery during transcathether aortic valve implantation. 2023; 18:21. doi: 10.1186/s13019-023-02131-6

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36635745/
