PMID: 36640463
Title: House advancement flap anoplasty in anal stenosis post hemorrhoids surgery. A case report.

Abstract: INTRODUCTION AND IMPORTANCE: Anal stenosis following hemorrhoids surgery is rare, and very distressing to the patients. It is graded according to its severity namely mild, moderate or severe. Majority of severe cases require surgery. The treatment is complex shown by the multiplicity of flaps and techniques described in the literature. This case report then reminds surgeons about the complications of hemorrhoidectomy and the complexity of their management. In addition, it challenges the surgeons about their practice on hemorrhoids.
CASE PRESENTATION: A 30-year-old male who presented with difficulty in passing stool with intermittent low abdominal pain for 4 weeks following a surgery for hemorrhoids. A House Advancement Flap was designed to match the transverse incisions and hence the width of the mucosal defect to be replaced. Any intra- or postoperative complications were noted and the patient was discharged on the second postoperative day from the hospital. Patient had no complaints in the post-discharge period.
CLINICAL DISCUSSION: Overzealous hemorrhoidectomy is one of the primary causes of stenosis of anal canal. Other causes that have been reported include anorectal diseases, other anorectal surgeries and radiotherapy. Physical examination majorly leads to the diagnosis of anal stenosis. Its treatment is conservative in mild cases while in severe anal stenosis a House Advancement Flap is one of the possible surgical management options.
CONCLUSION: Anal stenosis is a rare condition which requires good evaluation for its better management. Given its simplicity and successful results, a House Advancement Flap anoplasty is a reliable treatment of severe anal stenosis.

Citation: Kamabu K, et al. House advancement flap anoplasty in anal stenosis post hemorrhoids surgery. A case report. House advancement flap anoplasty in anal stenosis post hemorrhoids surgery. A case report. 2023; 103:107894. doi: 10.1016/j.ijscr.2023.107894

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36640463/
