PMID: 36643668
Title: Superimposed high-frequency jet ventilation used for endolaryngotracheal surgery in a child with congenital subglottic stenosis: a case report.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Airway management and anesthesia during endolaryngotracheal surgery in patients with obstructive airway diseases pose a major challenge for anesthesiologists, especially in pediatric patients. Children with obstructive airway disease often have a potentially difficult airway. Adequate airway assessment and preparation before anesthesia is essential. In the formulation of the entire anesthesia strategy, the choice of ventilation mode is the most critical. Superimposed high-frequency jet ventilation (SHFJV) is an enormous step forward in the progress of difficult surgery of the larynx and trachea in neonates, infants and children. However, due to objective factors, it has not been extensively applied worldwide.
CASE DESCRIPTION: In this article, our airway management strategy and clinical anesthesia experience is presented in a precisely designed, non-invasive and "tubeless" supraglottic SHFJV technique. This technique was used during a successful endolaryngotracheal surgery in a 3-year-old child with congenital subglottic stenosis under total intravenous anesthesia (TIVA) with propofol and remifentanil. Ultimately, the entire procedure and anesthesia were successful, and the child received effective treatment.
CONCLUSIONS: By summarizing and sharing our airway management strategy and clinical anesthesia experience in this case, anesthesiologists may have a clearer understanding of the challenges in this type of surgery. This case may add a valuable reference for the extensive application of SHFJV in endolaryngotracheal surgery.

Citation: Tang MM, et al. Superimposed high-frequency jet ventilation used for endolaryngotracheal surgery in a child with congenital subglottic stenosis: a case report. Superimposed high-frequency jet ventilation used for endolaryngotracheal surgery in a child with congenital subglottic stenosis: a case report. 2022; 11:2057-2062. doi: 10.21037/tp-22-218

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36643668/
