PMID: 36647103
Title: Secondary Budd-Chiari syndrome occurred after adjuvant radiotherapy for perihilar cholangiocarcinoma: a case report.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Budd-Chiari syndrome (BCS) is a rare vascular disorder of the liver, and acute and secondary BCS is even rarer.
CASE PRESENTATION: A 62-year-old man with perihilar cholangiocarcinoma of Bismuth type IIIa underwent right hemi-hepatectomy with caudate lobectomy and pancreatoduodenectomy. Adjuvant chemoradiotherapy was performed due to a positive hepatic ductal margin. Subsequently, the disease passed without recurrence. The patient visited for acute onset abdominal pain at the 32nd postoperative month. Multidetector-row computed tomography (MDCT) showed stenosis of the left hepatic vein (LHV) root, which was the irradiated field, and thrombotic occlusion of the LHV. The patient was diagnosed with acute BCS caused by adjuvant radiotherapy. Although anticoagulation therapy was performed, the patient complained of sudden upper abdominal pain again. MDCT showed an enlarged LHV thrombus and hepatomegaly. The patient was diagnosed with exacerbated acute BCS, and stenting for the stenotic LHV root was performed with a bare stent. Although stenting for the LHV root was very effective, restenosis occurred twice due to thrombus in the existing stent, so re-stenting was performed twice. The subsequent clinical course was acceptable without recurrence or restenosis of the LHV root as of 6 months after the last stenting using a stent graft.
CONCLUSION: Although no case of BCS caused by radiotherapy has yet been reported, the present case showed that late side effect of radiotherapy can cause hepatic vein stenosis and secondary BCS.

Citation: Miura Y, et al. Secondary Budd-Chiari syndrome occurred after adjuvant radiotherapy for perihilar cholangiocarcinoma: a case report. Secondary Budd-Chiari syndrome occurred after adjuvant radiotherapy for perihilar cholangiocarcinoma: a case report. 2023; 21:9. doi: 10.1186/s12957-023-02890-5

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36647103/
