PMID: 36645628
Title: Mini-probe endoscopic ultrasound for the diagnosis of congenital esophageal or duodenal stenosis.

Abstract: PURPOSE: The usefulness of endoscopic ultrasound (EUS) in pediatric populations has been recently appreciated; however, published studies on mini-probe EUS in the diagnosis of congenital esophageal stenosis (CES) or congenital duodenal stenosis (CDS) in pre-school patients remain scarce. This study aimed to report the utility of mini-probe EUS for the diagnosis of CES or CDS in pre-school patients based on the etiology.
METHODS: We retrospectively reviewed the medical records of pediatric patients with CES or CDS who underwent mini-probe EUS through the stenotic segments at our hospital between December 2006 and December 2021.
RESULTS: Five patients with CES and one with CDS were enrolled. The median age and body weight when EUS was performed were 12.5 months and 8.5 kg, respectively. Hypoechoic lesions were observed on EUS in three patients, which were assessed as cartilage; one patient had no hypoechoic lesion but had a focal thickness of the muscular layer. They were diagnosed with tracheobronchial remnants based on EUS. The full circumferential wall thickness of the esophagus was visualized in one patient with fibromuscular hypertrophy. The histopathological findings confirmed the diagnoses. In the patient with CDS, EUS findings revealed pancreatic parenchyma encircling the stenotic part of the duodenum. The preoperative diagnosis was annular pancreas. The patient underwent duodenoduodenostomy, and intraoperative findings confirmed the diagnosis.
CONCLUSION: Mini-probe EUS can be recommended as a feasible and safe technique for infants and toddlers. It can effectively diagnose CES or CDS based on etiology and can inform treatment strategies for pre-school patients.

Citation: Yabe K, et al. Mini-probe endoscopic ultrasound for the diagnosis of congenital esophageal or duodenal stenosis. Mini-probe endoscopic ultrasound for the diagnosis of congenital esophageal or duodenal stenosis. 2023; 50:177-185. doi: 10.1007/s10396-023-01281-3

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36645628/
