PMID: 36658053
Title: Verification of blood flow path reconstruction mechanism in distal sigmoid colon and rectal cancer after high IMA ligation through preoperative and postoperative comparison by manual subtraction CTA.

Abstract: INTRODUCTION: We aimed to investigate manual subtraction computed tomography angiography (MS-CTA) to further confirm the distribution and classification of LCA (left colic artery) ascending/descending branches, then observe the postoperative blood flow path to illustrate how the above branches evolved to postoperative blood path.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: 89 patients with distal sigmoid and rectal cancer were referred in our observation and underwent MS-CTA between June 2020 and March 2022. We classified the distribution of LCA and confirmed whether there exists AMCA (accessory middle colic artery). Then we planned blood flow path based on the classification of LCA branches before operation. High ligation was applied in regular radical surgery. During operation, we carefully protect the bifurcation of ascending and descending LCA. Then we compared the planned blood flow path with the actual postoperative blood flow path to verify the mechanism we proposed previously.
RESULTS: Of 89 patients, 82 cases met our criteria, we summarized 6 distribution pattens of LCA ascending and descending branches. These preoperative pattens are consistent with the inspection during operation. The postoperative blood flow path of 6 pattens is evolved from the above adjacent anastomotic branches and is consistent with the planned blood flow path. We also found 2 cases with IMA stenosis and 1 case with SMA stenosis under pathological condition, and their compensatory blood flow path is in accordance with our theory. The rate of the anastomotic leakage in our study group is relatively low (7.3%).
CONCLUSION: MS-CTA could confirm the distribution of LCA and AMCA, display accurate postoperative blood reconstruction path after IMA high ligation, and it further verified the mechanism we proposed previously, which is the proximal anastomotic branches forming new blood flow path from high-pressure area to the low-pressure area. This mechanism might be helpful for performing accurate laparoscopic sigmoid and rectal cancer surgery.

Citation: Wang Y, et al. Verification of blood flow path reconstruction mechanism in distal sigmoid colon and rectal cancer after high IMA ligation through preoperative and postoperative comparison by manual subtraction CTA. Verification of blood flow path reconstruction mechanism in distal sigmoid colon and rectal cancer after high IMA ligation through preoperative and postoperative comparison by manual subtraction CTA. 2023; 49:1269-1274. doi: 10.1016/j.ejso.2023.01.012

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36658053/
