PMID: 36656122
Title: Positive Effect of Platelet-Rich Plasma on Neoureterocystostomy in Rats: An Experimental Study.

Abstract: OBJECTIVES: Some of the most common problems after kidney transplant are urologic complications, including ureterocystoanastomosis leakage and stenosis with the development of severe renal graft complications. Isolated plasma contains active substances that cause the activation of various growth factors for the processes of tissue repair or regeneration, has an anti- inflammatory effect, activates angiogenesis, and reduces the risk of infectious complications. Platelet-rich plasma is actively used to stimulate bone regeneration, heal wounds and ulcers on the skin, enhance reconstruction of the larynx and trachea, and ameliorate urethral damage, among other uses. This study was developed to evaluate the positive effect of platelet-rich plasma on the healing process of an anastomotic wound in a model of ureterocystoanas-tomosis in rats.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: We randomized 14 Wistar albino male rats into 2 groups: group 1 included 7 rats that received platelet-rich plasma after ureterocystostomy; group 2 was the control group and included 7 rats that underwent ureterocystostomy without platelet-rich plasma. On postoperative day 7, all animals were euthanized, and the anastomosis area was resected for determination of the tissue hydroxyproline levels and histopathology examination.
RESULTS: Tissue hydroxyproline levels were 767 ± 62.9 μg/g in group 1 and 256 ± 28.0 μg/g in group 2. Tissue hydroxyproline levels were significantly higher in group 1 compared with group 2 (P < .05). There were no significant differences in epithelial damage, acute inflammation, or fibrosis between the tissue samples of both groups.
CONCLUSIONS: The results of this study show that the use of platelet-rich plasma during ureterocystostomy produces a positive effect. Our further research will be devoted to the use of autologous platelet-rich plasma in ureterocystostomy in big models.

Citation: Smagulov A, et al. Positive Effect of Platelet-Rich Plasma on Neoureterocystostomy in Rats: An Experimental Study. Positive Effect of Platelet-Rich Plasma on Neoureterocystostomy in Rats: An Experimental Study. 2023; 21:47-51. doi: 10.6002/ect.2022.0333

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36656122/
