PMID: 36655573
Title: Effectiveness of carotid council in the treatment of carotid artery disease: Early-term outcomes of the multidisciplinary approach.

Abstract: OBJECTIVES: Carotid arterial stenosis could be treated by surgical or percutaneous stenting. In this study, we aimed to investigate the effectiveness of the carotid council on the outcomes of patients with carotid artery disease.
METHODS: In this retrospective study, we analyzed the patients who had undergone carotid arterial revascularization from April 2014 to July 2022 in our hospital. All patients were evaluated in carotid council, which is constituted by neurologist, cardiologist and cardiovascular surgeon. Patient-specific treatment procedure was decided in the council. Demographics and early-term follow-up results of the patients were evaluated.
RESULTS: Totally 95 procedures in 85 patients were analyzed during the study period. 27.4 % of the patients had significant contralateral carotid arterial stenosis. In 88 (92.6%) procedures, patients were treated by carotid endarterectomy, and 5 procedures were performed under regional anesthesia. Shunt usage was 6.0% during the surgery, and arteriotomy was repaired with primary sutures in 87.3%. Stent implantation was performed in 7 patients. There were 5 neurological adverse events after the carotid endarterectomy and 2 neurological events were after carotid arterial stenting. In each treatment group, one patient died after the procedure. In the follow-up period, restenosis was observed just in a patient who was treated with carotid endarterectomy and primary repair.
CONCLUSION: Although carotid artery disease could be treated in accordance with the guidelines, treatment procedures should be patient-specific. Carotid councils might be helpful in giving patient-specific decisions, thereby providing the patient-based treatment procedure and improving the outcomes of the patients with carotid artery disease.

Citation: Ozbek IC, et al. Effectiveness of carotid council in the treatment of carotid artery disease: Early-term outcomes of the multidisciplinary approach. Effectiveness of carotid council in the treatment of carotid artery disease: Early-term outcomes of the multidisciplinary approach. 2024; 32:573-578. doi: 10.1177/17085381231153222

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36655573/
