PMID: 36651349
Title: Damage to the left descending coronary artery due to radiofrequency ablation in the right ventricular outflow tract: Clinical case series and anatomical considerations.

Abstract: The purpose of this paper was to highlight the importance of the anatomy of the right ventricular outflow tract (RVOT) and the proximity of the mid segment of the left anterior descending coronary artery (LAD) to the RVOT in the setting of ablation of ventricular arrhythmias in the RVOT. During the period from 2014 till 2017, five patients with injury to the LAD during ablation within RVOT were identified in three centers, in Belgium, Germany and Israel. The clinical characteristics, procedural data and follow up data, where available, are reported. The literature review over coronary artery damage during radiofrequency ablation procedures is provided and the anatomy of the RVOT and the neighboring vascular structures is discussed. We present five patients who underwent radiofrequency ablation of ventricular arrhythmias mapped to the inferior and anterior part of the RVOT, at the insertion of the right ventricular wall to the septum, whereby ablation resulted in occlusion in four and severe stenosis in one, of the mid segment of the LAD coronary artery. All patients underwent percutaneous coronary intervention and stenting, four of them immediately during the same procedure and one 3 days later because of lack of signs and symptoms of acute coronary occlusion. In conclusion, the mid segment of the LAD at the level of the second septal perforator/second diagonal branch runs in very close proximity to the endocardial aspect of the lower part of the RVOT and care should be taken during ablation of ventricular arrhythmias in this region. Additional imaging such as intracardiac echocardiography and coronary angiography may be helpful in avoiding complications.

Citation: Dilling-Boer D, et al. Damage to the left descending coronary artery due to radiofrequency ablation in the right ventricular outflow tract: Clinical case series and anatomical considerations. Damage to the left descending coronary artery due to radiofrequency ablation in the right ventricular outflow tract: Clinical case series and anatomical considerations. 2023; 34:468-477. doi: 10.1111/jce.15816

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36651349/
