PMID: 36655636
Title: Entrapment and rupture of the guide wire during PTCA: case report and medico-legal considerations.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: In recent years, due to the increase of complaints for medical malpractice, the Sicilian Regional Health System has adopted proceedings for the direct management of claims by each healthcare facility with the aim of reducing costs of insurance premiums and their relative taxes. Thus this management has led to increased awareness and management of clinical risk through the introduction of mandatory sentinel event monitoring.
CASE REPORT: A 55-year-old man with acute ischemic heart disease, due to three-vasal coronary diasease, underwent angioplasty perfomed on the second diagonal branch of the anterior descending artery. Simultaneously following the discovery of a major middle tract stenosis, he underwent further angioplasty surgery during which guidewire entrapment occurred, precisely in the proximal section of the vessel, resulting in the rupture and persistence of some fragments despite attempts to extract them. Subsequent antiplatelet therapy was prescribed and no further procedures were indicated for the removal of the guide wire, meanwhile a persistent reactive anxious-depressive state was established.
CONCLUSION: The medico-legal analysis of the case excluded liabilty since it was a fortuitous, unpredictable and inevitable event. However, the patient had not been adequately informed about the possibility of the complication presented, which resulted in prolonged hospitalization and compensation for the psychological disorder suffered as a result of the adverse event. The attempted economic agreement was unsuccessful. A civil lawsuit was subsequently filed by the patient and the Judge's report confirmed the corporate CMC assessment and ruled out that the side effects related to the guideline fragment.

Citation: Baldino G, et al. Entrapment and rupture of the guide wire during PTCA: case report and medico-legal considerations. Entrapment and rupture of the guide wire during PTCA: case report and medico-legal considerations. 2023; 174:1-3. doi: 10.7417/CT.2023.5000

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36655636/
