PMID: 36657529
Title: Injectable, Drug-Eluting Nanocrystals Prevent Fibrosis and Stricture Formation In Vivo.

Abstract: BACKGROUND & AIMS: Tissue fibrosis results from uncontrolled healing responses leading to excessive mesenchymal cell activation and collagen and other extracellular matrix deposition. In the gastrointestinal tract, fibrosis leads to narrowing of the lumen and stricture formation. A drug treatment to prevent fibrosis and strictures in the gastrointestinal tract would be transformational for patient care. We aimed to develop a stricture treatment with the following characteristics and components: a small molecule with strong antifibrotic effects that is delivered locally at the site of the stricture to ensure correct lesional targeting while protecting the systemic circulation, and that is formulated with sustained-release properties to act throughout the wound healing processes.
METHODS: A high-throughput drug screening was performed to identify small molecules with antifibrotic properties. Next, we formulated an antifibrotic small molecule for sustained release and tested its antifibrotic potential in 3 animal models of fibrosis.
RESULTS: Sulconazole, a US Food and Drug Administration-approved drug for fungal infections, was found to have strong antifibrotic properties. Sulconazole was formulated as sulconazole nanocrystals for sustained release. We found that sulconazole nanocrystals provided superior or equivalent fibrosis prevention with less frequent dosing in mouse models of skin and intestinal tissue fibrosis. In a patient-like swine model of bowel stricture, a single injection of sulconazole nanocrystals prevented stricture formation.
CONCLUSIONS: The current data lay the foundation for further studies to improve the management of a range of diseases and conditions characterized by tissue fibrosis.

Citation: Li L, et al. Injectable, Drug-Eluting Nanocrystals Prevent Fibrosis and Stricture Formation In Vivo. Injectable, Drug-Eluting Nanocrystals Prevent Fibrosis and Stricture Formation In Vivo. 2023; 164:937-952.e13. doi: 10.1053/j.gastro.2023.01.006

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36657529/
