PMID: 36653758
Title: Pulmonary veno-occlusive disease in Sjogren's syndrome: a case report.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH) associated with connective tissue disease (CTD) belongs to Group 1 pulmonary hypertension. Pulmonary veno-occlusive disease (PVOD), which is characterized by venous system aberrations, has been previously reported in CTD-PAH; however, it has rarely been observed in Sjogren's syndrome (SS).
CASE PRESENTATION: Our 28-year-old female patient was admitted to the hospital with recurrent shortness of breath even after minimal physical activity. Her chest high-resolution CT scan demonstrated pulmonary artery dilatation and bilateral ground-glass nodules. A subsequent right heart catheterization confirmed pulmonary hypertension because her mean pulmonary arterial pressure was 62 mmHg. Our inquisitive genomic assessment identified a novel EIF2AK4 mutation at c.1021 C > T (p. Gln341*), the dominant causal gene of PVOD. Histological examination demonstrated stenosis and occlusions in the pulmonary veins. Because she presented with features such as dry eyes and Raynaud's phenomenon, we performed a biopsy on the labial salivary gland, which confirmed SS. Her treatment regimen included PAH-targeted therapies (tadalafil and macitentan) in combination with hydroxychloroquine. Although she was hospitalized several times due to acute exacerbation of PAH, her disease progression was under control, and she did not demonstrate any signs of pulmonary edema even after a three-year treatment period.
CONCLUSION: Here, we report the case of an SS-PAH patient with PVOD who carried a novel biallelic EIF2AK4 mutation, and PAH-targeted therapies were well tolerated by our patient.

Citation: Zeng X, et al. Pulmonary veno-occlusive disease in Sjogren's syndrome: a case report. Pulmonary veno-occlusive disease in Sjogren's syndrome: a case report. 2023; 23:26. doi: 10.1186/s12890-023-02322-w

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36653758/
