PMID: 36661920
Title: The Cost Effectiveness of Coronary CT Angiography and the Effective Utilization of CT-Fractional Flow Reserve in the Diagnosis of Coronary Artery Disease.

Abstract: Given the high global disease burden of coronary artery disease (CAD), a major problem facing healthcare economic policy is identifying the most cost-effective diagnostic strategy for patients with suspected CAD. The aim of this review is to assess the long-term cost-effectiveness of coronary computed tomography angiography (CCTA) when compared with other diagnostic modalities and to define the cost and effective diagnostic utilization of computed tomography-fractional flow reserve (CT-FFR). A search was conducted through the MEDLINE database using PubMed with 16 of 119 manuscripts fitting the inclusion and exclusion criteria for review. An analysis of the data included in this review suggests that CCTA is a cost-effective strategy for both low risk acute chest pain patients presenting to the emergency department (ED) and low-to-intermediate risk stable chest pain outpatients. For patients with intermediate-to-high risk, CT-FFR is superior to CCTA in identifying clinically significant stenosis. In low-to-intermediate risk patients, CCTA provides a cost-effective diagnostic strategy with the potential to reduce economic burden and improve long-term health outcomes. CT-FFR should be utilized in intermediate-to-high risk patients with stenosis of uncertain clinical significance. Long-term analysis of cost-effectiveness and diagnostic utility is needed to determine the optimal balance between the cost-effectiveness and diagnostic utility of CT-FFR.

Citation: Burch RA, et al. The Cost Effectiveness of Coronary CT Angiography and the Effective Utilization of CT-Fractional Flow Reserve in the Diagnosis of Coronary Artery Disease. The Cost Effectiveness of Coronary CT Angiography and the Effective Utilization of CT-Fractional Flow Reserve in the Diagnosis of Coronary Artery Disease. 2023; 10:(unknown pages). doi: 10.3390/jcdd10010025

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36661920/
