PMID: 36661926
Title: Long-Term Results of Serial Exercise Testing and Echocardiography Examinations in Patients with Pulmonary Stenosis.

Abstract: Pulmonary stenosis (PS) affects cardiopulmonary function and exercise performance. Cardiopulmonary exercise testing (CPET) together with transthoracic echocardiography (TTE) can measure exercise performance, PS progression, and treatment effects. We assessed exercise capacity in PS patients using these methods. We enrolled 28 PS patients aged 6-35 years who received surgery, balloon pulmonary valvuloplasty, and follow-up care. The control population was selected by a 1:1 matching on age, sex, and body mass index. Baseline and follow-up peak pulmonary artery pulse wave velocity (PAV) were compared using TTE. Initial CPET revealed no significant differences in anaerobic metabolic equivalent (MET), peak oxygen consumption (VO<sub>2</sub>), and heart rate recovery between the two groups, nor were significant differences in pulmonary function identified. Within the PS group, there were no significant differences in MET, peak VO<sub>2</sub>, and heart rate recovery between the baseline and final CPET. Similarly, no significant differences were observed between the baseline and final PAV. The exercise capacity of patients with properly managed PS was comparable to that of healthy individuals. However, during the follow-up, declining trends in pulmonary function, aerobic metabolism, and peak exercise load capacity were observed among adolescents with PS. This study provides long-term data suggesting that PS patients should be encouraged to perform physical activity. Regular reevaluation should also be encouraged to limit performance deterioration.

Citation: Yang CH, et al. Long-Term Results of Serial Exercise Testing and Echocardiography Examinations in Patients with Pulmonary Stenosis. Long-Term Results of Serial Exercise Testing and Echocardiography Examinations in Patients with Pulmonary Stenosis. 2023; 10:(unknown pages). doi: 10.3390/jcdd10010031

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36661926/
