PMID: 36675407
Title: Correlation of Foraminal Parameters with Patient-Reported Outcomes in Patient with Degenerative Lumbar Foraminal Stenosis.

Abstract: The relationship between quantitative anatomic parameters in MRI and patient-reported outcomes (PROs) before and after surgery in degenerative lumbar foraminal stenosis remains unknown. We included 58 patients who underwent transforaminal lumbar interbody fusion (TLIF) for single-level degenerative disc disease with foraminal stenosis between February 2013 and June 2020. PROs were evaluated using the visual analog scale (VAS) for back and leg pain, Oswestry Disability Index (ODI), and EuroQol-5D (EQ-5D). The foraminal parameters assessed using preoperative MRI included foraminal height, posterior intervertebral disc height, superior and inferior foraminal width, and foraminal area. The correlation between foraminal parameters and PROs before operation, at 1 year follow-up, and change from baseline were assessed. The associations between the aforementioned parameters were examined using linear regression analysis. The analysis revealed that among these parameters, superior foraminal width was found to be significantly correlated with ODI and EQ-5D at the 1 year follow-up and with change in ODI and EQ-5D from baseline. The associations remained significant after adjustment for confounding factors including age, sex, body mass index, and duration of hospital stay. The results indicated that in degenerative lumbar foraminal stenosis, decreased superior foraminal width was associated with better improvement in disability and quality of life after TLIF.

Citation: Lin YT, et al. Correlation of Foraminal Parameters with Patient-Reported Outcomes in Patient with Degenerative Lumbar Foraminal Stenosis. Correlation of Foraminal Parameters with Patient-Reported Outcomes in Patient with Degenerative Lumbar Foraminal Stenosis. 2023; 12:(unknown pages). doi: 10.3390/jcm12020479

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36675407/
