PMID: 36673084
Title: The Correlation between the Vascular Calcification Score of the Coronary Artery and the Abdominal Aorta in Patients with Psoriasis.

Abstract: Psoriasis is known as an independent risk factor for cardiovascular disease due to its chronic inflammation. Studies have been conducted to evaluate the progress of atherosclerotic plaques in psoriasis. However, inadequate efforts have been made to clarify the relationship between atherosclerosis progress in coronary arteries and other important blood vessels. For that reason, we investigated the correlation and development of the coronary artery calcification score (CACS) and the abdominal aortic calcification score (AACS) during a follow-up examination. Eighty-three patients with psoriasis underwent coronary computed tomography angiography (CCTA) for total CACS and abdominal computed tomography (AbCT) for total AACS. PASI score, other clinical features, and blood samples were collected at the same time. The patients' medical histories were also retrieved for further analysis. Linear regression was used to analyze the CACS and AACS associations. There was a moderate correlation between CACS and AACS, while both calcification scores relatively reflected the coronary plaque number, coronary stenosis number, and stenosis severity observed with CCTA. Both calcification scores were independent of the PASI score. However, a significantly higher CACS was found in psoriatic arthritis, whereas no similar phenomenon was recorded for AACS. To conclude, both CACS and AACS might be potential alternative tests to predict the presence of coronary lesions as confirmed by CCTA.

Citation: Huynh TN, et al. The Correlation between the Vascular Calcification Score of the Coronary Artery and the Abdominal Aorta in Patients with Psoriasis. The Correlation between the Vascular Calcification Score of the Coronary Artery and the Abdominal Aorta in Patients with Psoriasis. 2023; 13:(unknown pages). doi: 10.3390/diagnostics13020274

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36673084/
