PMID: 36672011
Title: Poor Internal Jugular Venous Outflow Is Associated with Poor Cortical Venous Outflow and Outcomes after Successful Endovascular Reperfusion Therapy.

Abstract: Many patients show poor outcomes following endovascular reperfusion therapy (ERT), and poor cortical venous outflow is a risk factor for these poor outcomes. We investigated the association between the outflow of the internal jugular vein (IJV) and baseline cortical venous outflow and the outcomes after ERT. We retrospectively enrolled 78 patients diagnosed with an acute anterior circulation stroke and successful ERT. Poor IJV outflow on the affected side was defined as stenosis ≥50% or occlusion of ipsilateral IJV, and poor outflow of bilateral IJVs was defined as stenosis ≥50% or occlusion of both IJVs. Poor cortical venous outflow was defined as a cortical vein opacification score (COVES) of 0 on admission. Multivariate analysis showed that poor outflow of IJV on the affected side was an independent predictor for hemorrhagic transformation. The poor outflow of bilateral IJVs was an independent risk factor for poor clinical outcomes. These patients also had numerical trends of a higher incidence of symptomatic intracranial hemorrhage, midline shift >10 mm, and in-hospital mortality; however, statistical significance was not observed. Additionally, poor IJV outflow was an independent determinant of poor cortical venous outflow. For acute large vessel occlusion patients, poor IJV outflow is associated with poor baseline cortical venous outflow and outcomes after successful ERT.

Citation: Shang W, et al. Poor Internal Jugular Venous Outflow Is Associated with Poor Cortical Venous Outflow and Outcomes after Successful Endovascular Reperfusion Therapy. Poor Internal Jugular Venous Outflow Is Associated with Poor Cortical Venous Outflow and Outcomes after Successful Endovascular Reperfusion Therapy. 2022; 13:(unknown pages). doi: 10.3390/brainsci13010032

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36672011/
