PMID: 36674423
Title: GPR30 Alleviates Pressure Overload-Induced Myocardial Hypertrophy in Ovariectomized Mice by Regulating Autophagy.

Abstract: The incidence of heart failure mainly resulting from cardiac hypertrophy and fibrosis increases sharply in post-menopausal women compared with men at the same age, which indicates a cardioprotective role of estrogen. Previous studies in our group have shown that the novel estrogen receptor G Protein Coupled Receptor 30 (GPR30) could attenuate myocardial fibrosis caused by ischemic heart disease. However, the role of GPR30 in myocardial hypertrophy in ovariectomized mice has not been investigated yet. In this study, female mice with bilateral ovariectomy or sham surgery underwent transverse aortic constriction (TAC) surgery. After 8 weeks, mice in the OVX + TAC group exhibited more severe myocardial hypertrophy and fibrosis than mice in the TAC group. G1, the specific agonist of GPR30, could attenuate myocardial hypertrophy and fibrosis of mice in the OVX + TAC group. Furthermore, the expression of LC3II was significantly higher in the OVX + TAC group than in the OVX + TAC + G1 group, which indicates that autophagy might play an important role in this process. An in vitro study showed that G1 alleviated AngiotensionII (AngII)-induced hypertrophy and reduced the autophagy level of H9c2 cells, as revealed by LC3II expression and tandem mRFP-GFP-LC3 fluorescence analysis. Additionally, Western blot results showed that the AKT/mTOR pathway was inhibited in the AngII group, whereas it was restored in the AngII + G1 group. To further verify the mechanism, PI3K inhibitor LY294002 or autophagy activator rapamycin was added in the AngII + G1 group, and the antihypertrophy effect of G1 on H9c2 cells was blocked by LY294002 or rapamycin. In summary, our results demonstrate that G1 can attenuate cardiac hypertrophy and fibrosis and improve the cardiac function of mice in the OVX + TAC group through AKT/mTOR mediated inhibition of autophagy. Thus, this study demonstrates a potential option for the drug treatment of pressure overload-induced cardiac hypertrophy in postmenopausal women.

Citation: Zhang S, et al. GPR30 Alleviates Pressure Overload-Induced Myocardial Hypertrophy in Ovariectomized Mice by Regulating Autophagy. GPR30 Alleviates Pressure Overload-Induced Myocardial Hypertrophy in Ovariectomized Mice by Regulating Autophagy. 2023; 24:(unknown pages). doi: 10.3390/ijms24020904

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36674423/
