PMID: 36696791
Title: Evaluation of two probes for transesophageal echocardiography in small dogs: imaging capabilities, image quality, and usability.

Abstract: INTRODUCTIONS: Patient size is a limiting factor for transesophageal echocardiography (TEE) in small dogs. The objective of this study was to describe imaging capabilities of two probes for TEE in small dogs.
ANIMALS, MATERIALS, AND METHODS: Prospective study in 10 client-owned dogs weighing <4 kg with congenital heart disease (CHD). Dogs had TEE performed with a microprobe (10T-D, GE Medical) and intracardiac echocardiography (ICE) catheter-based probe (AcuNav™, Biosense Webster) in the esophagus in alternating order. Ease of placement, ability to acquire images of the CHD, image quality, and probe limitations were recorded.
RESULTS: Median weight was 2.4 kg (range, 1.0-3.2). Congenital abnormalities included patent ductus arteriosus (n = 9) and pulmonary valve stenosis (n = 1). The 10T-D microprobe was easy to place (n = 8) or achievable with gentle manipulation (n = 2), and image quality of the CHD was optimal (n = 8), adequate (n = 1), or poor (n = 1). The ICE probe was difficult to place in the esophagus even with an external support system (n = 9) or could not be placed (n = 1), and image quality of the CHD was optimal (n = 2), adequate (n = 3), or poor (n = 5). Both probes provided images in a 1.0-kg dog. Probe limitations included lack of lateral motion (microprobe), the need for an external support system (ICE probe) and inability to consistently maintain contact with the esophagus (ICE probe).
CONCLUSION: The 10T-D microprobe provided high-quality TEE images more consistently than the ICE probe in the majority of dogs in this study; however, the lack of lateral motion can diminish its utility in some dogs.

Citation: Stoner CH and Saunders AB. Evaluation of two probes for transesophageal echocardiography in small dogs: imaging capabilities, image quality, and usability. Evaluation of two probes for transesophageal echocardiography in small dogs: imaging capabilities, image quality, and usability. 2023; 45:41-49. doi: 10.1016/j.jvc.2022.12.005

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36696791/
