PMID: 36691165
Title: Intravenous ferric derisomaltose in iron-deficient patients undergoing transcatheter aortic valve implantation due to severe aortic stenosis: study protocol of the randomised controlled IIISAS trial.

Abstract: INTRODUCTION: Iron deficiency is a prevalent comorbidity in patients with severe aortic stenosis and may be associated with procedural and clinical outcomes after transcatheter aortic valve implantation (TAVI). In the Intravenous Iron Supplement for Iron Deficiency in Patients with Severe Aortic Stenosis (IIISAS) trial, we aim to examine whether a single administration of ferric derisomaltose can improve physical capacity after TAVI.
METHODS AND ANALYSIS: This randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial aims to enrol 150 patients with iron deficiency who are scheduled for TAVI due to severe aortic stenosis. The study drug and matching placebo are administered approximately 3 months prior to TAVI, and the patients are followed for 3 months after TAVI. Inclusion criteria are iron deficiency, defined as serum ferritin<100 µg/L or ferritin between 100 and 300 µg/L in combination with a transferrin saturation<20% and written informed consent. Exclusion criteria include haemoglobin<10 g/dL, red blood cell disorders, end-stage kidney failure, intolerance to ferric derisomaltose, and ongoing infections. The primary endpoint is the baseline-adjusted distance walked on a 6 min walk test (6MWT) 3 months after TAVI. Secondary end points include quality of life, New York Heart Association functional class (NYHA functional class), and skeletal muscle strength.
ETHICS AND DISSEMINATION: Ethical approval was obtained from the Regional Committee for Medical and Health Research of South-Eastern Norway and The Norwegian Medicines Agency. Enrolment has begun, and results are expected in 2022. The results of the IIISAS trial will be disseminated by presentations at international and national conferences and by publications in peer-reviewed journals.
TRIAL REGISTRATION NUMBER: NCT04206228.

Citation: Bardan S, et al. Intravenous ferric derisomaltose in iron-deficient patients undergoing transcatheter aortic valve implantation due to severe aortic stenosis: study protocol of the randomised controlled IIISAS trial. Intravenous ferric derisomaltose in iron-deficient patients undergoing transcatheter aortic valve implantation due to severe aortic stenosis: study protocol of the randomised controlled IIISAS trial. 2022; 12:e059546. doi: 10.1136/bmjopen-2021-059546

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36691165/
