PMID: 36697335
Title: Does vacuum phenomenon at non-fused discs affect the postoperative course after transforaminal lumbar interbody fusion in patients showing a positive value of difference in lumbar lordosis?

Abstract: INTRODUCTION: Preoperative difference in lumbar lordosis (DiLL) was associated with surgical outcomes after single-level transforaminal lumbar interbody fusion (TLIF). Patients with DiLL>0 (DiLL (+)) tended to show worse clinical outcomes and postoperative greater restoration of lumbar lordosis (LL). However, some patients with DiLL (+) showed relatively good outcomes and no postoperative LL restration. This study aimed to elucidate whether the lumbar intervertebral disc vacuum phenomenon (VP) influences clinical course after single-level TLIF in patients with DiLL (+) and DiLL (-).
METHODS: Patients with lumbar spinal stenosis and degenerative spondylolisthesis treated with single-level TLIF were included. Pre- and postoperative LL were measured, and postoperative LL improvement was calculated. Preoperative DiLL was calculated as preoperative supine LL minus standing LL. Severity of VP at the non-fused discs (SVP (non-FS)) was evaluated using preoperative reconstructed computed tomography imaging. Clinical outcomes were assessed using the Oswestry disability index, visual analogue scale (VAS; low back pain (LBP), lower-extremity pain, numbness, and the Japanese Orthopaedic Association Back Pain Evaluation Questionnaire. Patients were stratified by the median preoperative SVP (non-FS) score into severe and mild VP groups in patients with DiLL (+) or DiLL (-), and their surgical outcomes were compared.
RESULTS: Overall, 89 patients were included. In patients with DiLL (+) (n = 37), patients with severe VP showed worse clinical outcomes, particulary for LBP and DiLL (+) patients with mild VP showed greater LL improvement (6.5° ± 10.0°). In patients with DiLL(-) (n = 52), patients with severe VP showed worse clinical outcomes, particularly for LBP and no differences in preoperative, postoperative, and improvement of LL were observed between two groups.
CONCLUSION: Patients with DiLL (+) and DiLL (-) showed different clinical courses depending on VP severity at the non-fused discs after single-level TLIF.

Citation: Ohyama S, et al. Does vacuum phenomenon at non-fused discs affect the postoperative course after transforaminal lumbar interbody fusion in patients showing a positive value of difference in lumbar lordosis?. Does vacuum phenomenon at non-fused discs affect the postoperative course after transforaminal lumbar interbody fusion in patients showing a positive value of difference in lumbar lordosis?. 2024; 29:472-479. doi: 10.1016/j.jos.2023.01.001

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36697335/
