PMID: 36702461
Title: Outcomes of the modified Yacoub aortocoronary flap technique for 'non-separable' single sinus coronary arteries with intramural course in the neonatal arterial switch operation.

Abstract: OBJECTIVES: Coronary transfer remains the most crucial part of the arterial switch operation (ASO); yet, certain coronary anatomies prohibit the use of button or trap-door transfer techniques. In the rare setting of 'non-separable' single sinus coronary arteries with intramural course, the modified Yacoub aortocoronary flap technique is a viable option. The aim of this study is to describe this operative technique and review its early- and mid-term outcomes.
METHODS: This retrospective analysis included all cases with 'non-separable' single sinus coronary arteries with intramural course where the modified Yacoub aortocoronary flap technique served as a bail-out option.
RESULTS: Of 516 patients who underwent ASO at our institution between January 1977 and April 2022, 14 underwent the modified Yacoub aortocoronary flap technique. The median age at ASO was 10 (interquartile range 7-19) days. Hospital mortality occurred in 3 patients (21.4%), all being related to coronary complications. All hospital survivors were still alive at a median of 9.1 (interquartile range 4.2-18.3) years after the ASO. None of them developed complaints of ischaemia, ventricular arrhythmias, ventricular dysfunction or exercise intolerance. Surveillance computed tomography angiography showed stable aortocoronary relationships free from stenosis, compression and kinking. No reoperations for coronary artery problems and/or neoaortic valve or root problems were needed.
CONCLUSIONS: Although close monitoring of early coronary events seems crucial to prevent perioperative mortality, the modified Yacoub aortocoronary flap technique may serve as a viable bail-out option in patients with 'non-separable' single sinus coronary anatomy with intramural course, with excellent results among hospital survivors.

Citation: Van den Eynde J, et al. Outcomes of the modified Yacoub aortocoronary flap technique for 'non-separable' single sinus coronary arteries with intramural course in the neonatal arterial switch operation. Outcomes of the modified Yacoub aortocoronary flap technique for 'non-separable' single sinus coronary arteries with intramural course in the neonatal arterial switch operation. 2023; 63:(unknown pages). doi: 10.1093/ejcts/ezad029

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36702461/
