PMID: 36700153
Title: Anatomical features of the occipital artery on CTA and differences between patients with/without stenosis and occlusion of the internal carotid artery.

Abstract: The understanding of the basic anatomy of the occipital artery (OA) is crucial, and computed tomography angiography is an effective tool for this purpose. In the present study, a comparison between healthy subjects and patients with internal carotid artery (ICA) stenosis and occlusion was made. The following parameters were measured: Age, sex, diameters and lengths of the OA in different locations, distance from the edge of the foramen magnum to the OA and the distance from the midline to the OA at the level of the superior nuchal line. A total of 205 participants who met the inclusion criteria were selected for further investigation. In addition, 50 healthy subjects (100 sides, left and/or right) were selected as the control group. A total of 155 patients (180 sides, left and/or right) were selected as the stenosis and occlusion groups, including the mild and moderate ICA stenosis group (50 sides, left and/or right), severe ICA stenosis group (80 sides, left and/or right) and the ICA occlusion group (50 sides, left and right). General information, measured parameters and statistical analysis results are provided for these groups. No significant differences were observed in the anatomical parameters of the OA among these groups. Thus, in addition to providing anatomical data, the present study demonstrates that stenosis and the occlusion of the ICA do not significantly alter the anatomy of the OA.

Citation: Luan T and Yu J. Anatomical features of the occipital artery on CTA and differences between patients with/without stenosis and occlusion of the internal carotid artery. Anatomical features of the occipital artery on CTA and differences between patients with/without stenosis and occlusion of the internal carotid artery. 2022; 2:3. doi: 10.3892/mi.2021.28

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36700153/
