PMID: 36703930
Title: Deep learning-based hemodynamic prediction of carotid artery stenosis before and after surgical treatments.

Abstract: Hemodynamic prediction of carotid artery stenosis (CAS) is of great clinical significance in the diagnosis, prevention, and treatment prognosis of ischemic strokes. While computational fluid dynamics (CFD) is recognized as a useful tool, it shows a crucial issue that the high computational costs are usually required for real-time simulations of complex blood flows. Given the powerful feature-extraction capabilities, the deep learning (DL) methodology has a high potential to implement the mapping of anatomic geometries and CFD-driven flow fields, which enables accomplishing fast and accurate hemodynamic prediction for clinical applications. Based on a brain/neck CT angiography database of 280 subjects, image based three-dimensional CFD models of CAS were constructed through blood vessel extraction, computational domain meshing and setting of the pulsatile flow boundary conditions; a series of CFD simulations were undertaken. A DL strategy was proposed and accomplished in terms of point cloud datasets and a DL network with dual sampling-analysis channels. This enables multimode mapping to construct the image-based geometries of CAS while predicting CFD-based hemodynamics based on training and testing datasets. The CFD simulation was validated with the mass flow rates at two outlets reasonably agreed with the published results. Comprehensive analysis and error evaluation revealed that the DL strategy enables uncovering the association between transient blood flow characteristics and artery cavity geometric information before and after surgical treatments of CAS. Compared with other methods, our DL-based model trained with more clinical data can reduce the computational cost by 7,200 times, while still demonstrating good accuracy (error<12.5%) and flow visualization in predicting the two hemodynamic parameters. In addition, the DL-based predictions were in good agreement with CFD simulations in terms of mean velocity in the stenotic region for both the preoperative and postoperative datasets. This study points to the capability and significance of the DL-based fast and accurate hemodynamic prediction of preoperative and postoperative CAS. For accomplishing real-time monitoring of surgical treatments, further improvements in the prediction accuracy and flexibility may be conducted by utilizing larger datasets with specific real surgical events such as stent intervention, adopting personalized boundary conditions, and optimizing the DL network.

Citation: Wang S, et al. Deep learning-based hemodynamic prediction of carotid artery stenosis before and after surgical treatments. Deep learning-based hemodynamic prediction of carotid artery stenosis before and after surgical treatments. 2022; 13:1094743. doi: 10.3389/fphys.2022.1094743

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36703930/
