PMID: 36718683
Title: [Recent progress in the treatment of intractable sialolithiasis].

Abstract: Sialolithiasis occurs in approximately 0.45% to 1.20% of the general population. The typical clinical symptom manifests as a painful swelling of the affected glands after a meal or upon salivary stimulation, which extremely affects the life quality of the patients. With the development of sialendoscopy and lithotripsy, most sialoliths can be successfully removed with preservation of the gland. However, sialoliths in the deep hilar-parenchymal submandibular ducts and impacted parotid stones located in the proximal ducts continue to pose great challenges. Our research center for salivary gland diseases (in Peking University School and Hospital of Stomatology) has used sialendoscopy for 17 years and treated &gt;2 000 patients with salivary gland calculi. The success rate was approximately 92% for submandibular gland calculi and 95% for parotid calculi. A variety of minimally invasive surgical techniques have been applied and developed, which add substantial improvements in the treatment of refractory sialolithiasis. Further, the radiographic positioning criteria and treatment strategy are proposed for these intractable stones. Most of the hilar-parenchymal submandibular stones are successfully removed by a transoral approach, including transoral duct slitting and intraductal basket grasping, while a small portion of superficial stones can be removed by a mini-incision in submandibular area. Impacted stones located in the distal third of parotid gland ducts are removed via "peri-ostium incision", which is applied to avoid a cicatricial stenosis from a direct ostium incision. Impacted parotid stones located in the middle and proximal third of the Stensen's duct are removed via a direct mini-incision or a peri-auricular flap. A direct transcutaneous mini-incision is commonly performed under local anesthesia with an imperceptible scar, and is indicated for most of impacted stones located in the middle third, hilum and intraglandular ducts. By contrast, a peri-auricular flap is performed under general anesthesia with relatively larger operational injury of the gland parenchyma, and should be best reserved for deeper intraglandular stones. Laser lithotripsy has been applied in the treatment of sialolithiasis in the past decade, and holmium ∶YAG laser is reported to have the best therapeutic effects. During the past 3 years, our research group has performed laser lithotripsy for a few cases with intractable salivary stones. From our experiences, withdrawal of the endoscopic tip 0.5-1.0 cm away from the extremity of the laser fiber, consistent saline irrigation, and careful monitoring of gland swelling are of vital importance for avoidance of injuries of the ductal wall and the vulnerable endoscope lens during lithotripsy. Larger calculi require multiple treatment procedures. The risk of ductal stenosis can be alleviated by endoscopic dilation. In summary, appropriate use of various endoscopy-assisted lithotomy helps preserve the gland function in most of the patients with refractory sialolithiasis. Further studies are needed in the following aspects: Transcervical removal of intraglandular submandibular stones, intraductal laser lithotripsy of impacted parotid stones and deep submandibular stones, evaluation of long-term postoperative function of the affected gland, et al.

Citation: Liu DG, et al. [Recent progress in the treatment of intractable sialolithiasis]. [Recent progress in the treatment of intractable sialolithiasis]. 2023; 55:8-12. doi: 10.19723/j.issn.1671-167X.2023.01.002

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36718683/
