PMID: 36718993
Title: Studying the imaging features and infarction mechanism of vertebrobasilar dolichoectasia with high-resolution magnetic resonance imaging.

Abstract: The mechanisms underlying ischemic infarction in patients with vertebrobasilar dolichoectasia (VBD) remain unclear. In this study, we retrospectively analyzed the imaging characteristics of high-resolution magnetic resonance imaging (HR-MRI) in patients with VBD to explore the possible mechanisms of ischemic stroke (IS) in patients with VBD. Patients with VBD were recruited from the HR-MRI database between July 2017 and June 2021. HR-MRI was used to evaluate the diameter, bifurcation height, laterality, arterial dissection, and atherosclerotic plaques of the basilar artery (BA). Transcranial Doppler was used to measure the vertebrobasilar mean velocity (Vm), peak systolic velocity (Vs), end-diastolic velocity (Vd), and pulsatile index. Twenty-six patients with VBD were enrolled, of which 15 had IS and 11 did not. The incidence of classical vascular risk factors, including age, sex, hypertension, diabetes, and hypercholesterolemia, did not differ significantly between the two groups. The BA diameters of the stroke group were significantly higher than that of the nonstroke group (6.57 ± 1.00 mm vs. 5.06 ± 0.50 mm, p = 0.000). The height of the BA bifurcation in the stroke and nonstroke groups was statistically significant (p = 0.002). Compared with the nonstroke group, the Vm, Vs, and Vd of the BA in the stroke group were lower, but the difference was not significant. In the 16 patients with atherosclerotic stenosis, 30 atherosclerotic plaques were found in the BA, 18 (60%) in the greater curvature, and 12 (40%) in the lesser curvature. In addition, one artery dissection (on the lesser curvature) and two dissecting aneurysms (on the greater curvature) were found in the BA of three patients, respectively. The BA diameter and bifurcation height are factors related to IS in patients with VBD. The mechanism of stroke in patients with VBD may involve abnormal hemodynamics, artery dissection, and atherosclerosis. HR-MRI is a useful method for evaluating the risk and underlying mechanism of stroke in patients with VBD.

Citation: Zheng T, et al. Studying the imaging features and infarction mechanism of vertebrobasilar dolichoectasia with high-resolution magnetic resonance imaging. Studying the imaging features and infarction mechanism of vertebrobasilar dolichoectasia with high-resolution magnetic resonance imaging. 2023; 33:e13135. doi: 10.1111/bpa.13135

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36718993/
