PMID: 36715184
Title: Intravascular imaging-guided treatment of severe coronary artery calcification with orbital atherectomy: A prospective single-centre registry.

Abstract: INTRODUCTION: Coronary artery calcification can lead to suboptimal results when performing coronary angioplasty with conventional techniques. The presence of severe coronary artery calcium increases the complications of percutaneous coronary intervention as it may impede stent delivery and optimal stent expansion. The purpose of this study was to determine the procedural success and safety of orbital atherectomy (OA) in calcified lesions.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: This was a prospective single-centre study regarding the utility of OA in the treatment of calcified coronaries. Intravascular ultrasound (IVUS) or optical coherence tomography (OCT) was used in all cases to characterise the severity of calcium pre-procedure, guide vessel sizing and assess procedural success. The primary endpoint was procedural success, defined by successful stent implantation following OA treatment. The secondary endpoint was in-hospital and 30-day major adverse cardiovascular event (MACE).
RESULTS: Ten patients with severely calcified lesions were successfully treated with OA. The primary endpoint was achieved in all patients. All of the lesions were severely calcified with concentric calcium. None of the patients suffered in-hospital or 30-day MACE. The average minimal luminal diameter at baseline was 1.7 ± 0.3 mm and the post- PCI luminal diameter was 3.0 ± 0.3 mm, with a significant luminal gain of 1.3 ± 0.3 mm (p < 0.01). Slow flow during procedure occurred in 2 (20%) cases and dissection occurred in 1 (10%) case during procedure. These were successfully treated with stent delivery to achieve TIMI III flow. There were no cases of stent thrombosis or vessel perforation.
CONCLUSION: Our experience demonstrates the feasibility and safety of OA in the management of calcified coronary stenosis. Intravascular imaging is an important adjunct to the use of OA to assess the severity of calcified coronary lesions, success of OA treatment and to aid sizing of the vessel for stent implantation. OA is an effective treatment approach to disrupt coronary calcification, facilitating stent implantation with optimal results. It is a safe procedure with good success rate and low rate of complications.

Citation: Yap LB, et al. Intravascular imaging-guided treatment of severe coronary artery calcification with orbital atherectomy: A prospective single-centre registry. Intravascular imaging-guided treatment of severe coronary artery calcification with orbital atherectomy: A prospective single-centre registry. 2023; 78:7-13.

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36715184/
