PMID: 36714468
Title: Extended Ulaanbaatar Procedure with Preputial Skin Graft for Proximal Hypospadias.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Two stage urethroplasty for proximal penile hypospadias is time consuming, expensive and; traumatic both for parents and phallus. On the other hand, single stage procedure technically demanding. We would like to describe Extended Ulaanbaatar Procedure (EUP) which is not a two stage procedure. Rather, might be called as 'extended single stage' procedure. In EUP we have done orthoplasty along with urethroplasty with preputial skin graft at same sitting as primary procedure keeping urination diverted through proximal hypospadiac meatus as "controlled fistula" which was closed after six months as secondary procedure.
METHODS: We operated on 35 patients of proximal penile hypospadias with moderate to severe chordee. Chordee was excised till correction of curvature. Two distracted cut ends of native plate was bridged with preputial skin graft (PSG) in between. Following that, silastic tube was placed over glandular plate as scaffold, on both cut ends of native plate and PSG. All the urethral plates and PSG were buried with tunica vaginalis flap before glanuloplasty. After six months, proximal "controlled fistula" was closed with scrotal dartos fascia and skin to join distal to proximal urethra.
RESULTS: Vertical meatus in glans was found in 32 patients. One patient had glans dehiscence, two patients had medium sized fistula, another two patients had stenosis in neourethra and six had suture track fistula. Twenty-nine patients had satisfactory curve with good flow in uroflowmetry as per nomogram at sixth month of follow up.
CONCLUSION: In classic Ulaanbaatar procedure authors do distal urethroplasty and glanuloplsaty in 1st stage following orthoplasty to avoid repeat trauma in glans in repeat procedures. Left over urethroplasty in classic Ulaanbaatar was done in 2nd stage. However, in EUP; we did urethroplasty for full length following orthoplasty as primary procedure. This procedure is less invasive than two staged as we avoided repeat degloving and repeat dissection on operated tissues. Urethroplasty done as primary procedure shunned the need of repeat degloving, decreased the period of morbidity, stay, and cost of surgery. We also avoided problems of urination through not matured, long, neo-urethra. Similarly complications i.e disruption, stenosis in neo-urethra can be managed utilizing the advantages of urinary diversion.

Citation: Chatterjee US and Basak D. Extended Ulaanbaatar Procedure with Preputial Skin Graft for Proximal Hypospadias. Extended Ulaanbaatar Procedure with Preputial Skin Graft for Proximal Hypospadias. 2022; 27:684-688. doi: 10.4103/jiaps.jiaps_26_22

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36714468/
