PMID: 36716612
Title: Integrative echocardiographic assessment of post-operative obstruction severity and restenosis after balloon valvuloplasty in 81 dogs with pulmonary stenosis.

Abstract: INTRODUCTION/OBJECTIVES: Pulmonary stenosis (PS) is a congenital defect in the dog that is managed with balloon valvuloplasty (BV). Obstruction severity is routinely assessed using transthoracic echocardiography. The objectives of this study were to describe the short-term changes and long-term restenosis by retrospectively evaluating flow-dependent and flow-independent echocardiographic variables for dogs with PS after BV.
ANIMALS, MATERIALS, AND METHODS: Medical records and stored echocardiographic images were reviewed from dogs that received BV for PS. The following echocardiographic variables were measured or calculated: maximum systolic ejection velocity (Vmax<sub>PV</sub>) and velocity-derived maximal pressure gradient (PV maxPG) across the pulmonary valve; ratio of aortic to pulmonary velocity time integral (VTI<sub>AV</sub>/VTI<sub>PV</sub>); ratio of aortic to pulmonary maximal velocity.
RESULTS: Eighty-one dogs with PS that had a BV were included. Each of these dogs had pulmonary obstruction severity assessed in at least three timepoints. Forty-nine dogs had at least one additional examination performed, the last of which occurred a median of 504 days after the BV. Echocardiographic variables at the first follow-up had increased by a clinically relevant quantity in 20-34% of the dogs when comparing to the immediate post-BV examination. The last follow-up examination identified valve restenosis in 18-38% of the dogs in this study. Valve type and pre-BV obstruction severity did not have a significant effect (P > 0.1).
CONCLUSIONS: For the assessment of BV efficacy, the immediate post-BV echocardiogram may not be as useful as the first follow-up examination several months later. Pulmonary restenosis after BV may be more prevalent than previously reported.

Citation: Winter RL, et al. Integrative echocardiographic assessment of post-operative obstruction severity and restenosis after balloon valvuloplasty in 81 dogs with pulmonary stenosis. Integrative echocardiographic assessment of post-operative obstruction severity and restenosis after balloon valvuloplasty in 81 dogs with pulmonary stenosis. 2023; 45:71-78. doi: 10.1016/j.jvc.2022.12.006

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36716612/
