PMID: 36712267
Title: Bioprosthetic valve monitoring in patients with carcinoid heart disease.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Carcinoid heart disease (CnHD) is a frequent cause of morbidity and mortality in patients with neuroendocrine tumors and carcinoid syndrome. Although valve replacement surgery appears to decrease all-cause mortality in patients with advanced CnHD, few studies have investigated the outcomes of patients after valve replacement.
METHODS: We conducted a multi-institution retrospective registry of patients who received both tricuspid and pulmonic bioprosthetic valve (TV/PV) replacements for advanced CnHD from November 2005 to March 2021. Patients were followed post-operatively with echocardiographic studies every 3 months. Carcinoid valvular heart disease scores were used to monitor valve degeneration. Neuroendocrine tumor treatment, their administration times, and associations with echocardiographic findings were recorded.
RESULTS: Of 87 patients with CnHD, 22 patients underwent simultaneous surgical TV and PV replacement. In 6 patients (27.3%), increased PV V<sub>max</sub> was the first echocardiographic manifestation of valve degeneration in the setting of occult neurohormonal release. Post-operative telotristat ethyl and peptide receptor radionuclide therapy appeared to stabilize PV V<sub>max</sub>. The PV V<sub>max</sub> showed consistent elevation in the entire patient population when compared to baseline, while bioprosthetic TV echocardiographic parameters were relatively unchanged throughout. Post-operative warfarin therapy did not affect the rate of PV degeneration, and no major bleeding was recorded during or after post-operative anticoagulation therapy.
CONCLUSION: Bioprosthetic valve degeneration is common in CnHD. Monitoring with echocardiographic studies every 3 months, focusing on PV velocities, could identify patients with occult disease that very likely promotes valve degeneration. Novel neuroendocrine tumor therapies may have a beneficial impact on valve degeneration.

Citation: Honan KA, et al. Bioprosthetic valve monitoring in patients with carcinoid heart disease. Bioprosthetic valve monitoring in patients with carcinoid heart disease. 2022; 9:1072890. doi: 10.3389/fcvm.2022.1072890

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36712267/
