PMID: 36710143
Title: Redo-Transcatheter Aortic Valve Implantation Using the SAPIEN 3/Ultra Transcatheter Heart Valves-Expert Consensus on Procedural Planning and Techniques.

Abstract: Recent guidelines on valvular heart disease in Europe and the United States have expanded the indications for transcatheter aortic valve implantation (TAVI) to younger patients and those at lower surgical risk with severe symptomatic aortic stenosis. Consequently, the number of TAVI procedures will significantly increase worldwide. Patients with longer life expectancies will outlive their transcatheter heart valves (THVs) and require established treatment strategies for re-intervention. Current data have shown encouraging outcomes, including low mortality, with redo-TAVI; in contrast, surgical explantation of THVs is associated with high mortality. Redo-TAVI, therefore, is likely to be the treatment of choice for THV failure. The expected increase in the number of redo-TAVIs stands in contrast to the current lack of evidence on how this procedure should be planned and performed, including the risks and pitfalls operators need to consider. Preliminary reports stress the importance of preprocedural planning, understanding of THV skirt and leaflet characteristics, and implantation guidelines specific to different THVs. Currently, SAPIEN 3/Ultra is the only THV approved in Europe and the United States for redo-TAVI. Therefore, we gathered a panel of experts in TAVI procedures with the aim of providing operative guidance on redo-TAVI, using the SAPIEN 3/Ultra THV. This consensus article presents a step-by-step approach encompassing clinical, anatomical, and technical aspects in preprocedural planning, procedural techniques, and postprocedural care. In conclusion, the recommendations aim to improve the feasibility, safety, and long-term outcomes of redo-TAVI, including the durability of implanted THVs.

Citation: Tarantini G, et al. Redo-Transcatheter Aortic Valve Implantation Using the SAPIEN 3/Ultra Transcatheter Heart Valves-Expert Consensus on Procedural Planning and Techniques. Redo-Transcatheter Aortic Valve Implantation Using the SAPIEN 3/Ultra Transcatheter Heart Valves-Expert Consensus on Procedural Planning and Techniques. 2023; 192:228-244. doi: 10.1016/j.amjcard.2023.01.010

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36710143/
