PMID: 36724640
Title: Tricaprin can prevent the development of AAA by attenuating aortic degeneration.

Abstract: Medical therapeutic options to prevent rupture of abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA), a critical event, must be developed. Moreover, further understanding of the process of AAA development and rupture is crucial. Previous studies have revealed that aortic hypoperfusion can induce the development of AAA, and we successfully developed a hypoperfusion-induced AAA animal model. In this study, we examined the effects of medium-chain triglycerides (MCTs), tricaprylin (C8-TG) and tricaprin (C10-TG), on hypoperfusion-induced AAA rat model. We estimated the effects of MCTs on aortic pathologies, mechanical properties of the aorta, and development of AAA. C10-TG, but not C8-TG, significantly suppressed AAA development and completely prevented the rupture. We observed that C10-TG prevented the development and rupture of AAA, but not C8-TG. Additionally, regression of AAA diameter was observed in the C10-TG group. Pathological analysis revealed C10-TG improved the hypoperfusion-induced increase in hypoxia-inducible factor-1α levels, medial smooth muscle cells (SMCs) loss, degeneration of aortic elastin and collagen fibers, and loss of aortic wall elasticity. In addition, regression of the formed AAA was observed by administration of C10-TG after AAA formation. C10-TG administration after AAA formation improved degeneration of AAA wall including degradation of aortic elastin and collagen fibers, stenosis of vasa vasorum, and loss of medial SMCs. These data suggest C10-TG can prevent AAA by attenuating aortic hypoperfusion and degeneration. Considering the clinical safety of C10-TG, C10-TG can be a promising AAA drug candidate.

Citation: Kugo H, et al. Tricaprin can prevent the development of AAA by attenuating aortic degeneration. Tricaprin can prevent the development of AAA by attenuating aortic degeneration. 2023; 160:114299. doi: 10.1016/j.biopha.2023.114299

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36724640/
