PMID: 36720801
Title: Rationale and design of the iCORONARY trial: improving the cost-effectiveness of coronary artery disease diagnosis.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: In patients with stable coronary artery disease (CAD), revascularisation decisions are based mainly on the visual grading of the severity of coronary stenosis on invasive coronary angiography (ICA). However, invasive fractional flow reserve (FFR) is the current standard to determine the haemodynamic significance of coronary stenosis. Non-invasive and less-invasive imaging techniques such as computed-tomography-derived FFR (FFR-CT) and angiography-derived FFR (QFR) combine both anatomical and functional information in complex algorithms to calculate FFR.
TRIAL DESIGN: The iCORONARY trial is a prospective, multicentre, non-inferiority randomised controlled trial (RCT) with a blinded endpoint evaluation. It investigates the costs, effects and outcomes of different diagnostic strategies to evaluate the presence of CAD and the need for revascularisation in patients with stable angina pectoris who undergo coronary computed tomography angiography. Those with a Coronary Artery Disease-Reporting and Data System (CAD-RADS) score between 0-2 and 5 will be included in a prospective registry, whereas patients with CAD-RADS 3 or 4A will be enrolled in the RCT. The RCT consists of three randomised groups: (1) FFR-CT-guided strategy, (2) QFR-guided strategy or (3) standard of care including ICA and invasive pressure measurements for all intermediate stenoses. The primary endpoint will be the occurrence of major adverse cardiac events (death, myocardial infarction and repeat revascularisation) at 1 year.
CLINICALTRIALS: gov-identifier: NCT04939207.
CONCLUSION: The iCORONARY trial will assess whether a strategy of FFR-CT or QFR is non-inferior to invasive angiography to guide the need for revascularisation in patients with stable CAD. Non-inferiority to the standard of care implies that these techniques are attractive, less-invasive alternatives to current diagnostic pathways.

Citation: Peper J, et al. Rationale and design of the iCORONARY trial: improving the cost-effectiveness of coronary artery disease diagnosis. Rationale and design of the iCORONARY trial: improving the cost-effectiveness of coronary artery disease diagnosis. 2023; 31:150-156. doi: 10.1007/s12471-023-01758-3

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36720801/
