PMID: 36723728
Title: Toll-like receptor-3 contributes to the development of aortic valve stenosis.

Abstract: Aortic valve stenosis (AS) development is driven by distinct molecular and cellular mechanisms which include inflammatory pathways. Toll-like-receptor-3 (TLR3) is a lysosomal pattern-recognition receptor that binds double-stranded RNA and promotes pro-inflammatory cellular responses. In recent years, TLR3 has emerged as a major regulator of vascular inflammation. The exact role of TLR3 in the development of AS has not been investigated. Isolated human valvular interstitial cells (VICs) were stimulated with the TLR3-agonist polyIC and the resulting pro-inflammatory and pro-osteogenic response measured. Severe AS was induced in wildtype- and TLR3-/- mice via mechanical injury of the aortic valve with a coronary springwire. TLR3 activation was achieved by polyIC injection every 24 h after wire injury, while TLR3 inhibition was realized using Compound 4a (C4a) every 48 h after surgery. Endothelial mesenchymal transition (EndoMT) of human valvular endothelial cells (VECs) was assessed after polyIC stimulation. Stimulation of human VICs with polyIC promoted a strong inflammatory and pro-osteogenic reaction. Similarly, injection of polyIC marginally increased AS development in mice after wire injury. AS induction was significantly decreased in TLR3-/- mice, confirming the role of endogenous TLR3 ligands in AS pathology. Pharmacological inhibition of TLR3 with C4a not only prevented the upregulation of inflammatory cytokines and osteogenic markers in VICs, and EndoMT in VECs, but also significantly abolished the development of AS in vivo. Endogenous TLR3 activation significantly contributes to AS development in mice. Pharmacological inhibition of TLR3 with C4a prevented AS formation. Therefore, targeting TLR3 may be a viable treatment option.

Citation: Niepmann ST, et al. Toll-like receptor-3 contributes to the development of aortic valve stenosis. Toll-like receptor-3 contributes to the development of aortic valve stenosis. 2023; 118:6. doi: 10.1007/s00395-023-00980-9

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36723728/
