PMID: 36724817
Title: Optimal Anticoagulation on TAVI Patients Based on Thrombotic and Bleeding Risk and the Challenge Beyond: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis.

Abstract: Transcatheter Aortic Valve Replacement (TAVR) has been established as the treatment of choice for symptomatic aortic stenosis, while it is expanding in all risk-related group categories of patients, gaining gradually ground over the surgical approach. However, complications and adverse events are yet to be effectively limited and diminished with thrombotic and hemorrhagic events being rooted as a crucial topic of discussion. Favorable anticoagulation pharmacotherapy options are constantly being revised and tested, whilst guidelines are being modified to meet current clinical evidence. This review aims to systematically assess already existing guidelines on anticoagulation in post-TAVI patients and examine novel regimens for the specific use, like apixaban, rivaroxaban, and other anticoagulants, essentially constructing a holistic point of view on future progress on this matter. The added complexity brought by coagulation-affecting comorbidities such as atrial fibrillation, coronary artery disease, and more contributes to the direct association of the topic to the quality of healthcare as a public service. The literature was systematically searched to examine the effectiveness and safety of various anticoagulation treatments and cross-evaluate them based on the according category of patients that were assigned to. Clinical trials, observational studies and systematic reviews were included and, eventually, conclusive remarks and future considerations were developed and presented. In the category of patients without prior indication to anticoagulation, SAPT was proven safer and still effective, when antiplatelet therapies were compared, while a comparison of antiplatelet versus anticoagulation strategies noted the first one, with limited data, as the optimal one. Lastly, direct oral anticoagulants were shown to be safe substitutes for vitamin K antagonists for patients with prior indication to anticoagulation.

Citation: Tsoumas I, et al. Optimal Anticoagulation on TAVI Patients Based on Thrombotic and Bleeding Risk and the Challenge Beyond: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis. Optimal Anticoagulation on TAVI Patients Based on Thrombotic and Bleeding Risk and the Challenge Beyond: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis. 2023; 48:101632. doi: 10.1016/j.cpcardiol.2023.101632

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36724817/
