PMID: 36721735
Title: Median Arcuate Ligament Syndrome is Effectively Relieved with Minimally Invasive Surgery.

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: Median arcuate ligament (MAL) syndrome is a constellation of symptoms related to compression of the celiac artery trunk. Minimally invasive release of the ligament has been shown to improve these symptoms. This study describes one institution's experience with this procedure and reports on outcomes of minimally invasive release and patient quality of life.
METHODS: We performed a retrospective chart review of all patients who underwent minimally invasive release of the MAL at our institution. Patients were mailed a survey consisting of the 36-Item Short Form and Visick questionnaires. If surveys were not returned after one month, patients were called and asked to complete them over the phone. Demographic and pre- and postoperative data were collected and analyzed.
RESULTS: Eleven patients underwent a laparoscopic MAL release from January 1, 2015 to January 31, 2020. Most patients, 73%, reported epigastric pain as their primary symptom for a median of 18 months. All cases were successfully completed laparoscopically, with only one intraoperative complication. Mean hospital length of stay was 1.4 d. At the time of survey completion, the mean weight change was 2.3 kg. Additional interventions for resolution of symptoms and celiac artery stenosis were required for two patients. Surveys were completed by eight patients. A mean Visick score of 1.8 showed resolution or improved symptoms for all patients. SF-36 scores were highest for physical functioning, emotional well-being, and social functioning health areas.
CONCLUSIONS: Minimally invasive release of the MAL is a safe and effective surgery for patients suffering from MALS. Symptoms improved after adequate release of the ligament, with minimal morbidity and additional postoperative procedures needed.

Citation: Birkhold M, et al. Median Arcuate Ligament Syndrome is Effectively Relieved with Minimally Invasive Surgery. Median Arcuate Ligament Syndrome is Effectively Relieved with Minimally Invasive Surgery. 2022; 26:(unknown pages). doi: 10.4293/JSLS.2022.00067

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36721735/
