PMID: 36721161
Title: Intraoperative visualization of a deformed left main stent during surgical aortic valve replacement.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: While coronary artery bypass grafting is typically considered first choice for the treatment of left main stenosis, there is a trend towards left main stenting due to a steadily aging population in western countries with a high operative risk and patients with single vessel coronary artery disease affecting the left main artery. Nevertheless left main stenting remains controversial, especially in patients with concomitant indications for open-heart surgery.
CASE PRESENTATION: We want to present a case of a 78-year-old male patient with high-grade aortic stenosis who underwent surgical aortic valve replacement at our heart center due to anatomical contraindications for transcatheter aortic valve replacement. Stenting of the left main coronary artery was performed three years earlier due to single vessel coronary artery disease while moderate aortic valve stenosis was under surveillance at the time of the intervention. Intraoperatively we found the stent to be deformed inside the left main coronary artery, covering nearly 25% of the coronary ostium. So injection of cardioplegia directly into this ostium, as we perform normally, was not possible without further damaging the stent and/or the opening of the ostium. We had to insert cardioplegia via the retrograde way, so via the coronary sinus.
CONCLUSION: While left main stenting can be reasonable for a specific population of patients, it should be used cautiously in patients with concomitant indications for open-heart surgery in the near future and a low perioperative risk profile.

Citation: Müller PP, et al. Intraoperative visualization of a deformed left main stent during surgical aortic valve replacement. Intraoperative visualization of a deformed left main stent during surgical aortic valve replacement. 2023; 18:49. doi: 10.1186/s13019-023-02120-9

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36721161/
