PMID: 36742628
Title: Role of Pre Auricular Flap in Reconstruction of Acquired Meatal Stenosis Via Endaural Approach.

Abstract: Acquired meatal stenosis is a difficult entity to treat with a significant recurrence rate. It is normally approached posteriorly via post aural approach and reconstructed using split thickness skin graft. We are presenting a novel method of surgery for acquired meatal stenosis using a pre auricular flap via endaural approach only. The aim was to evaluate the success rate of using a pre auricular flap in acquired atresia of the external auditory canal using the endaural approach. Twenty patients with acquired atresia of the external auditory canal that was surgically treated were retrospectively studied from July 2012 to July 2018. All cases were done using endaural approach only. During the surgery, the atretic tissue was removed, wide canaloplasty done and the stenotic segment widened. Reconstruction of the external auditory canal was done using a pedicled anteriorly based pre auricular flap rotating it into the external auditory canal to cover the bare bone. Of the 20 patrients there were good results in 18 patients with restenosis occurring only in 2 patients. However, a skin tag developed in 2 other patients which was excsiced as OPD procedure and patient was asymptomatic on further follow ups. In all the 20 cases preauricular flap was used for reconstruction along with use of Split thickness skin graft in 10 cases. All 20 cases were operated via endaural route only. Use of a Preauricular flap in surgical treatment of acquired aural stenosis gives good results with a wide dry cavity as the flap is pedicled with its vascular supply and it can be tailor made according to each case and requirement.

Citation: Bansal C, et al. Role of Pre Auricular Flap in Reconstruction of Acquired Meatal Stenosis Via Endaural Approach. Role of Pre Auricular Flap in Reconstruction of Acquired Meatal Stenosis Via Endaural Approach. 2022; 74:3599-3603. doi: 10.1007/s12070-020-02119-x

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36742628/
