PMID: 36754691
Title: Valve-in-valve TAVI and risk of coronary obstruction: Validation of the VIVID classification.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: The Valve-in-Valve International Data (VIVID) registry proposed a simplified classification to assess the risk of coronary obstruction during valve-in-valve transcatheter aortic valve implantation (ViV-TAVI) based on preprocedural multi-detector computed tomography (MDCT). We investigated the validity of the VIVID classification in patients undergoing ViV-TAVI for degenerated bioprostheses.
METHODS: Patients undergoing ViV-TAVI for degenerated bioprostheses were prospectively included in this study. The risk of coronary obstruction among patients treated with stented valves was retrospectively evaluated based on anatomical assessment on pre-procedural MDCT.
RESULTS: Among a total of 137 patients that underwent ViV-TAVI between August 2007 and June 2021, 109 patients had stented, sutureless, or transcatheter degenerated bioprosthesis of which 96 (88%) had adequate MDCT data for risk assessment. High-risk anatomy for coronary obstruction (VIVID type IIB, IIIB, or IIIC) in either the left or right coronary artery was observed in 30 patients (31.3%). Of the 30 patients with high-risk anatomy, coronary protection using wire protection or BASILICA (bioprosthetic or native aortic scallop intentional laceration to prevent iatrogenic coronary artery obstruction) was performed in 3 patients (10.0%). Three patients treated with stentless valves and one patient treated with a stented valve with externally mounted leaflets had coronary obstruction. None of the patients with high risk anatomy according to MDCT had coronary obstruction even without coronary protection.
CONCLUSIONS: Coronary obstruction occurred in none of the patients classified as high-risk patients according to the VIVID classification despite the absence of coronary protection. Refined tools are required to assess the risk of coronary obstruction.
CLINICAL TRIAL REGISTRATION: https://www.
CLINICALTRIALS: gov. NCT01368250.

Citation: Tomii D, et al. Valve-in-valve TAVI and risk of coronary obstruction: Validation of the VIVID classification. Valve-in-valve TAVI and risk of coronary obstruction: Validation of the VIVID classification. 2023; 17:105-111. doi: 10.1016/j.jcct.2023.01.042

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36754691/
