PMID: 36758756
Title: Exploring the role of lipoprotein(a) in cardiovascular diseases and diabetes in Chinese population.

Abstract: A high level of lipoprotein (a) in the plasma has been associated with a variety of cardiovascular diseases and is considered to be an independent predictor of some other diseases. Based on recent studies, the concentration levels of Lp(a) in the Chinese population exhibit a distinctive variation from other populations. In the Chinese population, a high level of Lp(a) indicates a higher incidence of revascularization, platelet aggregation, and thrombogenicity following PCI. Increased risk of atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease (ASCVD) in Chinese population has been linked to higher levels of Lp(a), according to studies. More specifically, it has been found that in Chinese populations, higher levels of Lp(a) were linked to an increased risk of coronary heart disease, severe aortic valve stenosis, deep vein thrombosis in patients with spinal cord injuries, central vein thrombosis in patients receiving hemodialysis, and stroke. Furthermore, new and consistent data retrieved from several clinical trials also suggest that Lp (a) might also play an essential role in some other conditions, including metabolic syndrome, type 2 diabetes and cancers. This review explores the clinical and epidemiological relationships among Lp(a), cardiovascular diseases and diabetes in the Chinese population as well as potential Lp(a) underlying mechanisms in these diseases. However, further research is needed to better understand the role of Lp(a) in cardiovascular diseases and especially diabetes in the Chinese population.

Citation: Hussain Z, et al. Exploring the role of lipoprotein(a) in cardiovascular diseases and diabetes in Chinese population. Exploring the role of lipoprotein(a) in cardiovascular diseases and diabetes in Chinese population. 2023; 233:123586. doi: 10.1016/j.ijbiomac.2023.123586

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36758756/
