PMID: 36764449
Title: Intraoperative Neuromonitoring of Hypoglossal Nerves Using Transcranial and Direct Electrical Stimulation During Extracranial Internal Carotid Artery Surgery.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: We explored whether the electromyogram (EMG) and the motor evoked potential (MEP) are useful for monitoring the function of the hypoglossal nerve during surgery targeting the cervical segment of the internal carotid artery.
METHODS: The present study included 6 patients with internal carotid arterial stenosis (1 patient underwent bilateral surgeries) and 1 patient with a cervical carotid artery aneurysm. In 5 of the 8 procedures, the EMGs were recorded. We examined whether changes in the MEP and/or EMG were capable of predicting postoperative hypoglossal nerve deficits.
RESULTS: None of the 6 patients who underwent a total of 7 carotid endarterectomy (CEA) procedures experienced postoperative hypoglossal nerve morbidity. In 2 of the 7 procedures, the MEP disappeared or decreased significantly during CEA. In all 4 cases in which the hypoglossal nerve was directly stimulated during CEA, stable and reproducible EMGs were obtained throughout the manipulation of the internal carotid artery. Hypoglossal nerve morbidity was observed in the one case that underwent aneurysm removal and end-to-end anastomosis of the internal carotid artery. In this case, while the MEP decreased significantly during the operation, the EMG showed true-positive results and false-negative results, depending on the stimulation site.
CONCLUSIONS: The monitoring of hypoglossal nerve function using EMG appears to be accurate if an appropriate stimulation site is selected. Hypoglossal nerve monitoring using MEP can produce false-positive results. Combined monitoring using both MEP and EMG is recommended in cases where exposure of the hypoglossal nerve is expected to be technically difficult.

Citation: Kojima A, et al. Intraoperative Neuromonitoring of Hypoglossal Nerves Using Transcranial and Direct Electrical Stimulation During Extracranial Internal Carotid Artery Surgery. Intraoperative Neuromonitoring of Hypoglossal Nerves Using Transcranial and Direct Electrical Stimulation During Extracranial Internal Carotid Artery Surgery. 2023; 172:e701-e707. doi: 10.1016/j.wneu.2023.02.008

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36764449/
