PMID: 36763551
Title: Long-term results and predictors of postoperative outcomes in patients with cauda equina syndrome following degenerative lumbar spine disease.

Abstract: UNLABELLED: Cauda equina syndrome (CES) associated with acute disc extrusion or spinal stenosis often requires emergency surgery. Analysis of the Pubmed, Medline and eLibrary databases revealed a few studies devoted to long-term postoperative outcomes in patients with CES caused by degenerative spine disease.
OBJECTIVE: To evaluate long-term postoperative results and predictors of clinical and neurological outcomes in patients with CES caused by degenerative lumbar spine disease.
MATERIAL AND METHODS. D: Ecompressive and decompressive-stabilizing procedures were performed in 211 patients with CES caused by degenerative lumbar spine disease between 2000 and 2020. Long-term clinical parameters were available in 174 patients with mean follow-up period of 7 years. Sixty-eight patients had unsatisfactory postoperative outcomes. We assessed postoperative clinical and neurological outcomes in patients with CES and predictors of these outcomes.
RESULTS: We identified the following predictors of clinical and neurological outcomes using binary logistic regression model: period between clinical manifestation and surgery >48 hours, preoperative neurological impairment, spinal canal diameter, surgical procedure, dimension of herniated disc, ASA score and long-term postoperative analgesia with narcotic analgesics.
CONCLUSION: Preoperative planning and possible correction of the above-mentioned risk factors will potentially improve postoperative outcomes in patients with CES caused by degenerative lumbar spine disease.

Citation: Byvaltsev VA, et al. Long-term results and predictors of postoperative outcomes in patients with cauda equina syndrome following degenerative lumbar spine disease. Long-term results and predictors of postoperative outcomes in patients with cauda equina syndrome following degenerative lumbar spine disease. 2023; 87:35-43. doi: 10.17116/neiro20238701135

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36763551/
