PMID: 36769468
Title: Longitudinal Strain Analysis and Correlation with TIMI Frame Count in Patients with Ischemia with No Obstructive Coronary Artery (INOCA) and Microvascular Angina (MVA).

Abstract: Background: The aim of the study is to evaluate the subclinical alterations of cardiac mechanics detected using speckle-tracking echocardiography and compare these data with the coronary angiography indices used during coronary angiography in a population of patients diagnosed with ischemia with no obstructive coronary artery (INOCA) and microvascular angina (MVA). Methods: The study included 85 patients admitted to our center between November 2019 and January 2022 who were diagnosed with INOCA compared with a control group of 70 healthy patients. A collection of anamnestic data and a complete cardiovascular physical examination, and echocardiogram at rest with longitudinal strain were performed for all patients. Furthermore, the TIMI frame count (TFC) for the three coronary vessels was calculated according to Gibson's indications. All parameters were compared with a control population with similar characteristics. Results: Patients with INOCA compared to the control population showed statistically significant changes in the parameters assessed on the longitudinal strain analysis. In particular, patients with INOCA showed statistically significant changes in GLS (-16.71) compared to the control population (-19.64) (p = 0.003). In patients with INOCA, the total TIMI frame count (tTFC) correlated with the GLS value with a correlation coefficient of 0.418 (p = 0.021). Conclusions: In patients with angina, documented myocardial ischemia, the absence of angiographically significant stenosis (INOCA) and LVEF &gt; 50%, the prevalence of microvascular dysfunction documented by TFC was extremely represented. A statistically significant reduction in GLS was observed in these patients. TFC and longitudinal strain, therefore, appear to be two reliable, sensitive and easily accessible methods for the study of alterations in coronary microcirculation and the characterization of patients with INOCA and microvascular angina.

Citation: Sucato V, et al. Longitudinal Strain Analysis and Correlation with TIMI Frame Count in Patients with Ischemia with No Obstructive Coronary Artery (INOCA) and Microvascular Angina (MVA). Longitudinal Strain Analysis and Correlation with TIMI Frame Count in Patients with Ischemia with No Obstructive Coronary Artery (INOCA) and Microvascular Angina (MVA). 2023; 12:(unknown pages). doi: 10.3390/jcm12030819

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36769468/
