PMID: 36764585
Title: Patient's expectations of surgery for lumbar degenerative spondylolisthesis: analysis by type of surgery and patient factors from the Canadian Spine Outcomes and Research Network (CSORN).

Abstract: BACKGROUND CONTEXT: Preoperative expectations influence postoperative outcomes. Patients with lumbar degenerative spondylolisthesis have especially high expectations of pain relief and overall functional well-being compared to patients with lumbar stenosis.
PURPOSE: The primary objective was to analyze preoperative expectations of lumbar DS patients with respect to the type of surgery proposed (decompression vs decompression and fusion). Secondarily, we aimed to assess the associations between preoperative expectations and patient and clinical factors as well as postoperative expectations fulfillment.
STUDY DESIGN/SETTING: Patients were prospectively enrolled in a multicenter, prospective cohort study evaluating the assessment and management of degenerative spondylolisthesis utilizing the infrastructure of the Canadian Spine Outcomes and Research Network (CSORN) surgical registry.
PATIENT SAMPLE: Patients with a diagnosis of degenerative spondylolisthesis with symptoms of neurogenic claudication or radiculopathy with or without back pain, unresponsive to nonoperative management over at least 3 months were included. Patients who underwent decompression, decompression and posterolateral fusion or decompression and interbody fusion at Canadian spine centers between January 2015 and September 2021 were included.
OUTCOME MEASURES: The North American Spine Society Lumbar Spine Questionnaire was utilized for expectations measurement. The expectation questionnaire was completed following consent and before surgery and at 1 year.
METHODS: Expectations for pain relief and improvements in overall functional well-being were rated on a scale of 0 to 100. Preoperative expectation in terms of pain relief and functional well-being score were calculated. Multivariate linear regression was used to evaluate the association between expected preoperative patient factors and pain relief and functional well-being. The factors associated with the most important expectation were evaluated using multivariable multinomial logistic regression.
RESULTS: Three hundred fifty-two patients were included with 100 patients undergoing decompression and 252 patients also undergoing fusion. The seven items of preoperative expectations did not differ between the procedure groups nor did expected change. The mean pain relief and overall functional well-being expectation scores did not significantly differ between procedures. Higher expectations were associated with having more comorbidities [β=-2.0 (SE 0.8), p=.020], being physically active [β=8.4 (SE 3.2), p=.010] and having more leg pain [β=1.6 (SE 0.7), p=.015]. Better perceived physical health measured by SF12 PCS was associated with lower expectation of pain relief [β= -0.4 (SE 0.2), p=.039] and functional well-being [β=-0.84 (SE 0.2), p=.001]. Better perceived mental health measured by SF12 MCS was associated with lower expectation of functional well-being [β=-0.8 (SE 0.2), p=.001]. Postoperative expectations fulfillment did not differ between procedures.
CONCLUSION: Preoperative expectations in terms of pain relief and functional well-being were similar between the two most common procedures performed, decompression ± fusion. Secondarily, higher preoperative expectations were associated with greater pain, disability and being physically active. Expectations fulfillment did not differ between procedures.

Citation: Dandurand C, et al. Patient's expectations of surgery for lumbar degenerative spondylolisthesis: analysis by type of surgery and patient factors from the Canadian Spine Outcomes and Research Network (CSORN). Patient's expectations of surgery for lumbar degenerative spondylolisthesis: analysis by type of surgery and patient factors from the Canadian Spine Outcomes and Research Network (CSORN). 2023; 23:805-815. doi: 10.1016/j.spinee.2023.01.018

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36764585/
