PMID: 36764907
Title: [A rare case of arterial thrombosis secondary to Aerococcus viridans aortic endocarditis].

Abstract: Infective endocarditis is an uncommon, yet serious disease responsible for high morbidity and mortality, its incidence is estimated at 3-10 cases per 100,000 person-years. Most infective endocarditis cases emanate from streptococcus and staphylococcus. The incrimination of Aeroccocus viridans is rarely described in the literature and it has a high rate of embolic complication. We report the case of a 31-year-old male patient, with no prior medical history, who was admitted to the cardiology department of Ibn Rochd university center due to a prolonged fever for over 6 months. At admission, his general condition was preserved, he was febrile at 38.7 °C, claudication in the right lower limb with a decrease in the peroneal artery pulse, a graded 4/6 diastolic aortic murmur on auscultation, and no signs of heart failure. The transthoracic echocardiography revealed a type I bicuspid aortic valve disease, severe aortic regurgitation, moderate aortic stenosis, and vegetation implanted on the ventricular side of the right coronary cusp. CT angiography of the lower limbs revealed a bilateral total occlusion of the tibioperoneal trunks extended to the proximal portions of the posterior tibial arteries and peroneal arteries with collateral circulation, endovascular collection, and occlusive calcified plaque of the proximal part of the right anterior tibial artery and the collateral circle. Blood tests showed an inflammatory syndrome. Blood cultures detected Aerococcus viridans. The patient was first put on ceftriaxone, gentamycin, unfractionated heparin, and analgesic-antipyretic when necessary, he was then transferred to the cardiovascular surgery department for replacement of the aortic valve and permeabilization of the lower limbs by the FOGARTY technique. Post-surgical results were satisfying. In conclusion, infective endocarditis secondary to Aerococcus viridans is rare but appears to be virulent because most often discovered at the stage of complications. Therefore, good antibiotic therapy adapted to the antibiogram results in a good prognosis.

Citation: Seydou HI, et al. [A rare case of arterial thrombosis secondary to Aerococcus viridans aortic endocarditis]. [A rare case of arterial thrombosis secondary to Aerococcus viridans aortic endocarditis]. 2023; 72:101578. doi: 10.1016/j.ancard.2022.11.013

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36764907/
