PMID: 36761488
Title: Potential factors affecting success rate and long term outcome in single balloon enteroscopy-assisted therapeutic endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography in patients with pancreaticojejunal anastomotic stenosis: a retrospective study.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Pancreaticojejunal anastomotic stenosis (PJS) after pancreaticoduodenectomy (PD) is difficult to treat. Single-balloon enteroscope-assisted endoscopic retrograde pancreatography (SBE-assisted ERP) is a safe way to treat PJS with the strength of minimally invasion and repeatability, but since its technical difficulty and few patient number, data on long-term outcomes remain limited. The optimal treatment is still unknown. We aim to study the safety, effectiveness, and long-term outcome of single balloon enteroscopy-assisted (SBE-assisted) therapeutic ERP in patients with PJS in this study.
METHODS: The clinical information of patients undergoing SBE-assisted therapeutic ERP from March 2016 to March 2021 were retrospectively analyzed. All patients were diagnosed as PJS and without any contraindication for therapeutic endoscopy. Treatment details, postoperative complications, factors influencing technical success rate were evaluated. Long-term outcomes results were obtained by clinical or telephone follow-up.
RESULTS: Sixteen patients with median age of 51 years were included in this study, surgical reconstruction methods including PD with Whipple reconstruction, PD with Child reconstruction, pylorus-preserving pancreaticoduodenectomy (PpPD) with Whipple reconstruction. Eight patients were successfully treated. No serious complications happened. Risk factors for the failure of pancreaticojejunal anastomotic site identification include the digestive tract reconstruction sequence, pancreaticojejunostomy method, pancreatic duct tube implantation, pancreatic duct width before surgery, and pancreatic fistula during perioperative period. The median follow-up time was 77.2 months, the mean indwelling time of the stent was 62.3 months [interquartile range (IQR), 6.8-153.7 months]. Two of eight patients developed recurrent PJS. The variation in body mass index (BMI) was +2.46 in the non-recurrence group compared to -1.09 in the recurrence group and -2.12 in the endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography (ERCP) treatment failure group.
CONCLUSIONS: ERP intervention should be carried out early once PJS occurs in order to increase success rate. BMI is a crucial indicator which can reflex PJS rehabilitation degree during follow-up. In order to reduce PJS recurrence rate, a wider pancreatic stent and a longer stent indwelling time are recommended.

Citation: Weng H, et al. Potential factors affecting success rate and long term outcome in single balloon enteroscopy-assisted therapeutic endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography in patients with pancreaticojejunal anastomotic stenosis: a retrospective study. Potential factors affecting success rate and long term outcome in single balloon enteroscopy-assisted therapeutic endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography in patients with pancreaticojejunal anastomotic stenosis: a retrospective study. 2023; 12:67-80. doi: 10.21037/gs-22-692

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36761488/
