PMID: 36769805
Title: A Practical Approach to Systemic Mastocytosis Complications in Cardiac Surgery: A Case Report and Systematic Review of the Literature.

Abstract: (1) Background: Systemic mastocytosis is a rare, non-curable disease with potential life-threatening complications in patients receiving cardiac surgery. (2) Methods: This systematic review of the literature was prompted by the case of a life-threatening anaphylactic reaction during cardiac surgery related to systemic mastocytosis. The search of all types of studies, using several databases (Pubmed, Scopus and Web of Science), was conducted through September 2022 to identify the relevant studies. (3) Results: Twelve studies were included describing cases of patients undergoing cardiac surgery who were diagnosed with systemic mastocytosis. An adverse effect, namely anaphylaxis, has happened in three cases. Different strategies of premedication, intraoperative and postoperative management were used. In our case, the patient was admitted for elective biological aortic valve replacement due to severe aortic stenosis. Intraoperatively, the patient developed an anaphylactic shock during the administration of protamine after separation from the cardiopulmonary bypass. This anaphylaxis reaction was a complication of the pre-existing systemic mastocytosis and could be successfully managed by the administration of epinephrine, antihistamines and corticosteroids. (4) Conclusions: This systematic literature search and case report highlight the importance of careful preoperative planning, as well as coordination between cardiac surgeons, anesthesiologists and hemato-oncological specialists, in patients with rare but complication-prone diseases such as systemic mastocytosis.

Citation: Suleiman MN, et al. A Practical Approach to Systemic Mastocytosis Complications in Cardiac Surgery: A Case Report and Systematic Review of the Literature. A Practical Approach to Systemic Mastocytosis Complications in Cardiac Surgery: A Case Report and Systematic Review of the Literature. 2023; 12:(unknown pages). doi: 10.3390/jcm12031156

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36769805/
