PMID: 36778466
Title: Gold Nanoparticles for Monitoring of Mesenchymal Stem Cell-Loaded Bioresorbable Polymeric Wraps for Arteriovenous Fistulas.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: To address high rates of arteriovenous fistula (AVF) failure, a mesenchymal stem cell (MSC)-seeded polymeric perivascular wrap has been developed to reduce neointimal hyperplasia (NIH) and enhance AVF maturation in a rat model. However, the wrap's radiolucency makes its placement and integrity difficult to monitor.
PURPOSE: In this study, we infused gold nanoparticles (AuNPs) into the polymeric perivascular wrap to improve its radiopacity and tested the effect of infusion on the previously reported beneficial effects of the polymeric wrap on the AVF outflow vein.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: We fabricated a polymeric perivascular wrap made of polycaprolactone (PCL) infused with AuNPs via electrospinning. Sprague-Dawley rat mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) were seeded on the surface of the wraps. We then compared the effect of five AVF treatments-no perivascular wrap (i.e., control), PCL wrap, PCL+MSC wrap, PCL-Au wrap, and PCL-Au+MSC wrap-on AVF maturation in a Sprague-Dawley rat model of chronic kidney disease (n=3 per group). Statistical significance was defined as p<.05, and one-way analysis of variance was performed using GraphPad Prism software.
RESULTS: On micro-CT, AuNP-infused wraps demonstrated significantly higher radiopacity compared to wraps without AuNPs. On ultrasonography, wraps with and without AuNPs equally reduced the wall-to-lumen ratio of the outflow vein, a marker of vascular stenosis. On histomorphometric analysis, wraps with and without AuNPs equally reduced the neointima-to- lumen ratio of the outflow vein, a measure of NIH. On immunofluorescence analysis, representative MSC-seeded wraps demonstrated reduced neointimal staining for markers of smooth muscle cells (α-SMA), inflammatory cells (CD45), and fibroblasts (vimentin) infiltration when compared to control and wraps without MSCs.
CONCLUSION: Gold nanoparticle infusion allows the in vivo monitoring via micro-CT of a mesenchymal stem cell-seeded polymeric wrap over time without compromising the benefits of the wrap on arteriovenous fistula maturation.
SUMMARY STATEMENT: Gold nanoparticle infusion enables in vivo monitoring via micro-CT of the placement and integrity over time of mesenchymal stem cell-seeded polymeric wrap supporting arteriovenous fistula maturation.
KEY RESULTS: Gold nanoparticle (AuNP)-infused perivascular wraps demonstrated higher radiopacity on micro-CT compared with wraps without AuNPs after 8 weeks.AuNP-infused perivascular wraps equally improved the wall-to-lumen ratio of the outflow vein (a marker of vascular stenosis) when compared with wraps without AuNPs, as seen on US.AuNP-infused perivascular wraps equally reduced the neointima-to-lumen ratio of the outflow vein (a measure of neointimal hyperplasia) when compared with wraps without AuNPs, as seen on histomorphometry.

Citation: Barcena AJR, et al. Gold Nanoparticles for Monitoring of Mesenchymal Stem Cell-Loaded Bioresorbable Polymeric Wraps for Arteriovenous Fistulas. Gold Nanoparticles for Monitoring of Mesenchymal Stem Cell-Loaded Bioresorbable Polymeric Wraps for Arteriovenous Fistulas. 2023; (unknown volume):(unknown pages). doi: 10.1101/2023.02.01.526611

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36778466/
