PMID: 36781442
Title: Collateral circulation develops in stenosis of the celiac trunk and superior mesenteric artery.

Abstract: PURPOSE: Mesenteric circulation is provided by the celiac trunk (CT), superior mesenteric artery (SMA), and inferior mesenteric artery (IMA). The collateral circulation between CT and SMA and between SMA and IMA plays a protective role against intestinal ischemia in case of narrowing or occlusion of the mesenteric vessels. In our study, it is aimed to determine the CT and SMA stenosis rates in patients with CT and SMA stenosis from angiography images, the occurrence of the collateral variations, and the frequency of these variations.
METHODS: A total of 408 non-selective or selective CT and SMA angiographic images were taken of 215 patients (130 males, 85 females) who were admitted to Akdeniz University Hospital with symptoms of chronic mesenteric ischemia (CMI) were included. The angiography images were analyzed in regards to CT and SMA stenosis rates, and the collateral variations between mesenteric vessels.
RESULTS: Stenosis of CT was observed in 14 patients, whereas the stenosis of the SMA was observed in 12 patients. The most common collateral vessel in these patients was the gastroduodenal artery. Both stenoses of CT and SMA were found in 9 patients. The Riolan arch was the most common type of collateral vessel in these patients.
CONCLUSION: It was observed that mesenteric circulation was mainly provided by gastroduodenal artery in patients with isolated CT or SMA stenosis or occlusion while in patients with stenosis or occlusion of both CT and SMA, mesenteric circulation was mainly provided by the Riolan arch. A significant increase was observed in the prominence of collateral vessels in patients with stenosis of more than 70%.

Citation: Salim H, et al. Collateral circulation develops in stenosis of the celiac trunk and superior mesenteric artery. Collateral circulation develops in stenosis of the celiac trunk and superior mesenteric artery. 2023; 45:479-486. doi: 10.1007/s00276-023-03104-z

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36781442/
