PMID: 36796410
Title: Structured Reporting in Cross-Sectional Imaging of the Heart: Reporting Templates for CMR Imaging of Ischemia and Myocardial Viability and for Cardiac CT Imaging of Coronary Heart Disease and TAVI Planning.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Structured reporting allows a high grade of standardization and thus a safe and unequivocal report communication. In the past years, the radiological societies have started several initiatives to base radiological reports on structured reporting rather than free text reporting.
METHODS: Upon invitation of the working group for Cardiovascular Imaging of the German Society of Radiology, in 2018 an interdisciplinary group of Radiologists, Cardiologists, Pediatric Cardiologists and Cardiothoracic surgeons -all experts on the field of cardiovascular MR and CT imaging- met for interdisciplinary consensus meetings at the University Hospital Cologne. The aim of these meetings was to develop and consent templates for structured reporting in cardiac MR and CT of various cardiovascular diseases.
RESULTS: Two templates for structured reporting of CMR in ischemia imaging and vitality imaging and two templates for structured reporting of CT imaging for planning Transcatheter Aortic Valve Implantation (TAVI; pre-TAVI-CT) and coronary CT were discussed, consented and transferred to a HTML 5/IHR MRRT compatible format. The templates were made available for free use on the website www.befundung.drg.de.
CONCLUSION: This paper suggests consented templates in German language for the structured reporting of cross-sectional CMR imaging of ischemia and vitality as well as reporting of CT imaging pre-TAVI and coronary CT. The implementation of these templates is aimed at providing a constant level of high reporting quality and increasing the efficiency of report generation as well as a clinically based communication of imaging results.
KEY POINTS: · Structured reporting offers a constant level of high reporting quality and increases the efficiency of report generation as well as a clinically based communication of imaging results.. · For the first time templates in German language for the structured reporting of CMR imaging of ischemia and vitality and CT imaging pre-TAVI and coronary CT are reported.. · These templates will be made available on the website www.befundung.drg.de and can be commented via strukturierte-befundung@drg.de..
ZITIERWEISE: · Soschynski M, Bunck AC, Beer M et al. Structured Reporting in Cross-Sectional Imaging of the Heart: Reporting Templates for CMR Imaging of Ischemia and Myocardial Viability and for Cardiac CT Imaging of Coronary Heart Disease and TAVI Planning. Fortschr Röntgenstr 2023; 195: 293 - 296.

Citation: Soschynski M, et al. Structured Reporting in Cross-Sectional Imaging of the Heart: Reporting Templates for CMR Imaging of Ischemia and Myocardial Viability and for Cardiac CT Imaging of Coronary Heart Disease and TAVI Planning. Structured Reporting in Cross-Sectional Imaging of the Heart: Reporting Templates for CMR Imaging of Ischemia and Myocardial Viability and for Cardiac CT Imaging of Coronary Heart Disease and TAVI Planning. 2023; 195:293-296. doi: 10.1055/a-1981-1196

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36796410/
