PMID: 36792126
Title: Feasibility of patchless proximal profundoplasty and common femoral endarterectomy.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Typical repair of common femoral artery (CFA) occlusive disease involves surgical endarterectomy followed by patch closure; however, prosthetic materials may become infected. In addition, in our institution, we have experienced an increased incidence of severe patch-related restenosis. We describe a technique for CFA endarterectomy and patchless proximal profundoplasty, and evaluate its feasibility.
METHODS: We performed a single-centre retrospective cohort study of patients who, between July 1, 2020, and June 30, 2021, underwent a procedure that consisted of transection of the superficial femoral artery (SFA) off the femoral bifurcation in a bevelled manner, eversion endarterectomy of the SFA, remote-type endarterectomy of the CFA, direct visualization of the end point in the profunda femoris artery (PFA) with a longitudinal arteriotomy extension if needed and reimplantation of the SFA "hood" as a patch. We collected clinical information and outcomes from the patients' charts.
RESULTS: Ten patients who underwent a patchless profundoplasty procedure during the study period were identified. Indications for repair included tissue loss (3 patients), rest pain (2 patients), claudication (3 patients) and establishing access for other procedures (2 patients). Profunda femoris artery arteriotomy extensions were used in 5 cases. Six cases included simultaneous iliac or infrainguinal revascularization. All cases were technically successful. There was 1 intraoperative complication of remote tibial balloon angioplasty tear. The mean follow-up time was 199 (range 29-381) days. There were no surgical site infections. All patients were asymptomatic, with patent CFAs, at last follow-up. There was 1 case of surgical site restenosis and 1 reintervention for remote stenosis. The average increase in ankle and toe brachial indices was 44% and 75%, respectively. One patient was readmitted for gastrointestinal bleeding. One patient died from an acute myocardial infarction, on postoperative day 34.
CONCLUSION: The patchless profundoplasty technique is feasible and results in autologous anatomic repair of CFA disease without the need for vein, and allows direct visualization and tacking sutures of the proximal PFA. This technique may replace the ubiquitous vascular procedure of patch arterioplasty of the CFA, depending on the anatomic configuration.

Citation: Tse LWH and Kapila V. Feasibility of patchless proximal profundoplasty and common femoral endarterectomy. Feasibility of patchless proximal profundoplasty and common femoral endarterectomy. 2023; 66:E66-E70. doi: 10.1503/cjs.020221

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36792126/
