PMID: 36792317
Title: "Be Your Own Doctor" Experiences of Patients With Transcatheter Aortic Valve Implantation During the Pandemic: A Qualitative Study.

Abstract: Background and Purpose: Although patients have had reduced access to healthcare institutions due to the COVID-19 pandemic and the related preventive measures, there is no current data on how the pandemic has affected patients who underwent transcatheter aortic valve implantation (TAVI), despite their need for close follow-up.This study investigated TAVI patients' experiences with self-care management during the pandemic. Methods: This study adopted a descriptive qualitative design. The sample consisted of 24 patients recruited using purposive sampling. Data were collected by telephone and analyzed using inductive content analysis. Results: The data were grouped under three themes: "vulnerability," "worsening of psychological condition," and "expectations." The most challenging self-care behaviors reported by TAVI patients were determined to be doing regular physical activity, managing their symptoms, complying with treatment, and attending regular check-ups. They also reported experiencing psychological problems such as fear, concern, and abandonment and stated a need for better communication and follow-up at home during the pandemic. Implications for Practice: The pandemic has more than ever demonstrated the importance of effective self-care for cardiovascular patients. Nurses should plan individualized interventions regarding the problems in self-care management that we identified in this study. In this regard, the use of secure digital applications such as telerehabilitation can be effective. Also, nurses should develop community-based and political initiatives to allow sustainable self-care management to be effectively implemented in special patient groups in extraordinary circumstances such as pandemics.

Citation: Akbaba A and Mert H. "Be Your Own Doctor" Experiences of Patients With Transcatheter Aortic Valve Implantation During the Pandemic: A Qualitative Study. "Be Your Own Doctor" Experiences of Patients With Transcatheter Aortic Valve Implantation During the Pandemic: A Qualitative Study. 2023; 37:3-16. doi: 10.1891/RTNP-2022-0043

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36792317/
