PMID: 36793936
Title: Simultaneous ST-elevation myocardial infarction in monozygotic twins: a case report of entangled twins.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: The development of coronary artery disease (CAD) is strongly influenced by genetic and environmental factors. Monozygotic twins represent a unique population that provides insights into the interaction of genetic, environmental, and social factors and their effects on the development of CAD.
CASE SUMMARY: Two 54-year-old identical twins presented to an outside hospital with acute chest pain. Twin B developed chest pain after witnessing Twin A in distress from an acute chest pain episode. Electrocardiogram performed on each of them was diagnostic of ST-elevation myocardial infarction. Upon arrival at the angioplasty centre, Twin A was taken for emergency coronary angiography yet his pain subsided on the way to the catheterization lab hence, Twin B was taken for angiography instead. Twin B angiography demonstrated acute occlusion of the proximal left anterior descending coronary artery and was treated with percutaneous coronary intervention. Twin A coronary angiogram demonstrated 60% ostial first diagonal branch stenosis with a normal distal flow. He was diagnosed with possible coronary vasospasm.
CONCLUSION: This is the first report of a simultaneous presentation of monozygotic twins with ST-elevation acute coronary syndrome. While genetic and environmental contributions to the development of CAD have been described, this case highlights the strong social bond that exists between monozygotic twins. Once CAD is diagnosed in one twin, aggressive risk factor modification and screening should be implemented in the other.

Citation: Kassab K and Gupta V. Simultaneous ST-elevation myocardial infarction in monozygotic twins: a case report of entangled twins. Simultaneous ST-elevation myocardial infarction in monozygotic twins: a case report of entangled twins. 2023; 7:ytad050. doi: 10.1093/ehjcr/ytad050

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36793936/
