PMID: 36797156
Title: Myocardial blood flow evaluation with dynamic cadmium-zinc-telluride single-photon emission computed tomography: Bright and dark sides.

Abstract: Myocardial blood flow (MBF) and myocardial perfusion reserve (MPR) assessment with non-invasive techniques represent an important tool to evaluate both coronary artery disease severity and extent. Currently, cardiac positron emission tomography-computed tomography (PET-CT) is the "gold standard" for the assessment of coronary function and provides accurate estimations of baseline and hyperemic MBF and MFR. Nevertheless, due to the high cost and complexity, PET-CT is not widely used in clinical practice. The introduction of cardiac-dedicated cadmium-zinc-telluride (CZT) cameras has renewed researchers' interest on MBF quantitation by single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT). Indeed, many studies evaluated MPR and MBF measurements by dynamic CZT-SPECT in different cohorts of patients with suspected or overt coronary artery disease. As well, many others have compared the values obtained by CZT-SPECT to the ones by PET-CT, showing good correlations in detecting significant stenosis, although with different and non-standardized cut-off values. Nevertheless, the lack of standardized protocol for acquisition, reconstruction and elaboration makes more difficult to compare different studies and to further assess the real advantages of MBF quantitation by dynamic CZT-SPECT in clinical routine. Many are the issues involved in the bright and dark sides of dynamic CZT-SPECT. They include different type of CZT cameras, different execution protocols, different tracers with different myocardial extraction fraction and distribution, different software packages with different tools and algorithms, often requiring manual post-processing elaboration. This review article provides a clear summary of the state of the art on MBF and MPR evaluation by dynamic CZT-SPECT and outlines the major issues to solve to optimize this technique.

Citation: D'Antonio A, et al. Myocardial blood flow evaluation with dynamic cadmium-zinc-telluride single-photon emission computed tomography: Bright and dark sides. Myocardial blood flow evaluation with dynamic cadmium-zinc-telluride single-photon emission computed tomography: Bright and dark sides. 2023; 104:323-329. doi: 10.1016/j.diii.2023.02.001

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36797156/
