PMID: 36803312
Title: Effect of the timing of iliac vein stent implantation on catheter-directed thrombolysis in acute lower extremity deep venous thrombosis patients with severe iliac vein stenosis: a retrospective study.

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: To investigate the effect of the timing of iliac vein stent implantation on catheter-directed thrombolysis (CDT) in acute lower extremity deep venous thrombosis (DVT) patients with severe iliac vein stenosis.
METHODS: The clinical data of 66 patients with acute lower extremity DVT complicated with severe iliac vein stenosis from May 2017 to May 2020 were retrospectively analyzed. Patients were divided into two groups by timing of iliac vein stent implantation: group A (iliac vein stent implantation before CDT treatment) for 34 and group B (iliac vein stent implantation after CDT treatment) for 32. The detumescence rate of affected limb, the thrombus clearance rate, the thrombolytic efficiency, the complication rate, the hospitalization cost, the stent patency rate within 1 year, and the scores (venous clinical severity score, Villalta, and chronic venous insufficiency questionnaire (CIVIQ) score) at 1 year postoperatively were compared between the two groups.
RESULTS: The thrombolytic efficiency of group A was higher than that of group B, while the incidence of complications and hospitalization expenses in group A were lower than those in group B. There was no statistical significance in the detumescence rate of affected limb, the thrombus clearance rate, the stent patency rate within 1 year, and the scores (VCSS, Villalta, and CIVIQ score) at 1 year postoperatively between the two groups.
CONCLUSIONS: For acute lower extremity DVT patients with severe iliac vein stenosis, iliac vein stent implantation before CDT treatment can improve the thrombolytic efficiency, and reduce the incidence of complications and hospitalization costs.

Citation: Liu C, et al. Effect of the timing of iliac vein stent implantation on catheter-directed thrombolysis in acute lower extremity deep venous thrombosis patients with severe iliac vein stenosis: a retrospective study. Effect of the timing of iliac vein stent implantation on catheter-directed thrombolysis in acute lower extremity deep venous thrombosis patients with severe iliac vein stenosis: a retrospective study. 2023; 38:181-189. doi: 10.1177/02683555231157566

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36803312/
