PMID: 36809260
Title: Cervical kinematic change after posterior full-endoscopic cervical foraminotomy for disc herniation or foraminal stenosis.

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: Posterior full-endoscopic cervical foraminotomy (PECF) is one of minimally invasive surgical techniques for cervical radiculopathy. Because of minimal disruption of posterior cervical structures, such as facet joint, cervical kinematics was minimally changed. However, a larger resection of facet joint is required for cervical foraminal stenosis (FS) than disc herniation (DH). The objective was to compare the cervical kinematics between patients with FS and DH after PECF.
METHODS: Consecutive 52 patients (DH, 34 vs. FS, 18) who underwent PECF for single-level radiculopathy were retrospectively reviewed. Clinical parameters (neck disability index, neck pain and arm pain), and segmental, cervical and global radiological parameters were compared at postoperative 3, 6, and 12 months, and yearly thereafter. A linear mixed-effect model was used to assess interactions between groups and time. Any occurrence of significant pain during follow-up was recorded during a mean follow-up period of 45.5 months (range 24-113 months).
RESULTS: Clinical parameters improved after PECF, with no significant differences between groups. Recurrent pain occurred in 6 patients and surgery (PECF, anterior discectomy and fusion) was performed in 2 patients. Pain-free survival rate was 91% for DH and 83% for FS, with no significant difference between the groups (P = 0.29). Radiological changes were not different between groups (P > 0.05). Segmental neutral and extension curvature became more lordotic. Cervical curvature became more lordotic on neutral and extension X-rays, and the range of cervical motion increased. The mismatch between T1-slope and cervical curvature decreased. Disc height did not change, but the index level showed degeneration at postoperative 2 years.
CONCLUSION: Clinical and radiological outcomes after PECF were not different between DH and FS patients and kinematics were significantly improved. These findings may be informative in a shared decision-making process.

Citation: Paik S, et al. Cervical kinematic change after posterior full-endoscopic cervical foraminotomy for disc herniation or foraminal stenosis. Cervical kinematic change after posterior full-endoscopic cervical foraminotomy for disc herniation or foraminal stenosis. 2023; 18:e0281926. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0281926

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36809260/
