PMID: 36807188
Title: [Initial Recurrence around the Hilar of the Liver Which Was Difficult to Differentiate from Perihilar Cholangiocarcinoma with Portal Vein Invasion after Resection for Breast Cancer-A Case Report].

Abstract: A 63-year-old woman underwent mastectomy and axillary dissection for right breast cancer(cT4bN1M0, Stage ⅢB, scirrhous carcinoma, moderately positive for ER, PgR negative, and HER2 negative)following neoadjuvant chemotherapy. She received no adjuvant therapy. A follow-up computed tomography 3 years later showed a soft tissue mass around the hilar bile ducts and mass in segment 6 of the liver. Based on these imaging findings, a diagnosis of perihilar cholangiocarcinoma with liver metastasis was made. She received chemotherapy with gemcitabine plus cisplatin, followed by S-1 monotherapy. Two years after the initiation of chemotherapy, an increase in the size of the liver mass and duodenal stenosis due to peritoneal dissemination were detected. Gastro-jejunal bypass was performed and a biopsy of the disseminated peritoneal mass supported a histologic diagnosis of breast cancer. The patient then received chemotherapy for breast cancer for 1 year. However, she eventually died due to the progression of the peritoneal dissemination. Although initial recurrence around the hilar of the liver is extremely rare after resection for breast cancer, when a new lesion is detected after breast cancer surgery the diagnosis and initial treatment should be made with the possibility of breast cancer recurrence in mind, based on the clinicopathological findings and the risk of recurrence.

Citation: Ishii S, et al. [Initial Recurrence around the Hilar of the Liver Which Was Difficult to Differentiate from Perihilar Cholangiocarcinoma with Portal Vein Invasion after Resection for Breast Cancer-A Case Report]. [Initial Recurrence around the Hilar of the Liver Which Was Difficult to Differentiate from Perihilar Cholangiocarcinoma with Portal Vein Invasion after Resection for Breast Cancer-A Case Report]. 2023; 50:251-253.

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36807188/
