PMID: 36800972
Title: Hybrid surgery of percutaneous transforaminal endoscopic surgery (PTES) combined with OLIF and anterolateral screws rod fixation for treatment of multi-level lumbar degenerative diseases with intervertebral instability.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Oblique lumbar interbody fusion (OLIF) has been used to treat lumbar intervertebral instability, which has some advantages including less trauma, less blood loss, faster recovery and bigger cage. However, it usually needs posterior screws fixation for biomechanical stability, and possible direct decompression for relieving neurologic symptoms. In this study, OLIF and anterolateral screws rod fixation through mini-incision were combined with percutaneous transforaminal endoscopic surgery (PTES) for the treatment of multi-level lumbar degenerative diseases (LDDs) with intervertebral instability. The purpose of study is to evaluate the feasibility, efficacy and safety of this hybrid surgery.
METHODS: From July 2017 to May 2018, 38 cases of multi-level LDDs of disc herniation, foramen stenosis, lateral recess stenosis or central canal stenosis with intervertebral instability and neurologic symptoms undergoing one-stage PTES combined with OLIF and anterolateral screws rod fixation through mini-incision were recruited in this retrospective study. The culprit segment was predicted according to the position of patient's leg pain and PTES under local anesthesia was performed for the culprit segment in the prone position to enlarge the foramen, remove the flavum ligamentum and herniated disc for the lateral recess decompression and expose bilateral traversing nerve roots for the central spinal canal decompression through an unilateral incision. During the operation, communicate with the patients to confirm the efficacy using VAS. And then mini-incision OLIF using allograft, autograft bone harvested in PTES and anterolateral screws rod fixation were performed in the right lateral decubitus position under general anesthesia. Back and leg pain were preoperatively and postoperatively evaluated using VAS. And the clinical outcomes were evaluated with ODI at the 2-year follow-up. The fusion status was assessed according to Bridwell's fusion grades.
RESULTS: There were 27 cases of 2-level, 9 cases of 3-level and 2 cases of 4-level LDDs with single-level instability on the X-ray, CT and MRI. Five cases of L3/4 instability and 33 cases of L4/5 instability were included. PTES was performed for 1 segment of 31 cases (25 cases of instability segment, 6 cases of no instability segment) and 2 segments including instability segment of 7 cases. Then, all instability segments were treated using mini-incision OLIF and anterolateral screws rod fixation. The average operation duration was 48.9 ± 7.3 min per level for PTES and 69.2 ± 11.6 min for OLIF and anterolateral screws rod fixation. The mean frequency of intraoperative fluoroscopy was 6 (5-9) times per level for PTES and 7 (5-10) times for OLIF. There was a mean blood loss of 30 (15-60) ml, and the incision length was 8.1 ± 1.1 mm for PTES and 40.0 ± 3.2 mm for OLIF. The mean hospital stay was 4 (3-6) days. The average follow-up duration was 31.1 ± 4.0 months. For the clinical evaluation, the VAS pain index and the ODI showed excellent outcomes. Fusion grades based on the Bridwell grading system at 2-year follow-up were grade I in 29 segments (76.3%) and grade II in 9 segments (23.7%). One patient encountered nerve root sleeves rupture during PTES and did not confront cerebrospinal fluid leakage or other abnormal clinical symptoms. There were two cases of hip flexion pain and weakness, which was relieved during 1 week after surgery. No patients had any form of permanent iatrogenic nerve damage and a major complication. No failure of instruments was observed.
CONCLUSIONS: The hybrid surgery of PTES combined with OLIF and anterolateral screws rod fixation is a good choice of minimally invasive surgery for multi-level LDDs with intervertebral instability, which can get direct neurologic decompression, easy reduction, rigid fixation and solid fusion, and hardly destroy the paraspinal muscles and bone structures.

Citation: Zhou T and Gu Y. Hybrid surgery of percutaneous transforaminal endoscopic surgery (PTES) combined with OLIF and anterolateral screws rod fixation for treatment of multi-level lumbar degenerative diseases with intervertebral instability. Hybrid surgery of percutaneous transforaminal endoscopic surgery (PTES) combined with OLIF and anterolateral screws rod fixation for treatment of multi-level lumbar degenerative diseases with intervertebral instability. 2023; 18:117. doi: 10.1186/s13018-023-03573-3

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36800972/
