PMID: 36802499
Title: Elastomeric Trilayer Substrates with Native-like Mechanical Properties for Heart Valve Leaflet Tissue Engineering.

Abstract: Heart valve leaflets have a complex trilayered structure with layer-specific orientations, anisotropic tensile properties, and elastomeric characteristics that are difficult to mimic collectively. Previously, trilayer leaflet substrates intended for heart valve tissue engineering were developed with nonelastomeric biomaterials that cannot deliver native-like mechanical properties. In this study, by electrospinning polycaprolactone (PCL) polymer and poly(l-lactide-co-ε-caprolactone) (PLCL) copolymer, we created elastomeric trilayer PCL/PLCL leaflet substrates with native-like tensile, flexural, and anisotropic properties and compared them with trilayer PCL leaflet substrates (as control) to find their effectiveness in heart valve leaflet tissue engineering. These substrates were seeded with porcine valvular interstitial cells (PVICs) and cultured for 1 month in static conditions to produce cell-cultured constructs. The PCL/PLCL substrates had lower crystallinity and hydrophobicity but higher anisotropy and flexibility than PCL leaflet substrates. These attributes contributed to more significant cell proliferation, infiltration, extracellular matrix production, and superior gene expression in the PCL/PLCL cell-cultured constructs than in the PCL cell-cultured constructs. Further, the PCL/PLCL constructs showed better resistance to calcification than PCL constructs. Trilayer PCL/PLCL leaflet substrates with native-like mechanical and flexural properties could significantly improve heart valve tissue engineering.

Citation: Snyder Y and Jana S. Elastomeric Trilayer Substrates with Native-like Mechanical Properties for Heart Valve Leaflet Tissue Engineering. Elastomeric Trilayer Substrates with Native-like Mechanical Properties for Heart Valve Leaflet Tissue Engineering. 2023; 9:1570-1584. doi: 10.1021/acsbiomaterials.2c01430

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36802499/
