PMID: 36800651
Title: Analysis on the correlation between the occurrence of vertebral artery ostium stenosis and the severity of osteoporosis in elderly patients with atherosclerosis.

Abstract: To analyze the correlation between the occurrence of vertebral artery ostium stenosis (VAOS) and the severity of osteoporosis in elderly patients with atherosclerosis (AS), and disclose the physiopathologic mechanism of the correlation between VAOS and osteoporosis. 120 patients were divided into two groups. The baseline data of both groups were collected. The biochemical indicators of patients in both groups were collected. The EpiData database was established to enter all the data into the database for statistical analysis. There were significant differences in the incidence of dyslipidemia among risk factors of cardia-cerebrovascular disease (P<0.05). LDL-C, Apoa and Apob were significantly lower than the control group (P<0.05). BMD, T-value and Ca in the observation group were significantly lower than the control group, while BALP and serum phosphorus in the observation group were significantly higher than the control group (P<0.05). The more severe the VAOS stenosis, the higher the incidence of osteoporosis, and there was a statistical difference in the risk of osteoporosis among different VAOS stenosis degrees (P<0.05). Apolipoprotein A, B and LDL-C in blood lipids are important factors affecting the development of bone and artery diseases. There is a significant correlation between VAOS and the severity of osteoporosis. The pathological calcification process of VAOS has many similarities with the process of bone metabolism and osteogenesis, and shows preventable and reversible physiological characteristics.

Citation: Peng Z, et al. Analysis on the correlation between the occurrence of vertebral artery ostium stenosis and the severity of osteoporosis in elderly patients with atherosclerosis. Analysis on the correlation between the occurrence of vertebral artery ostium stenosis and the severity of osteoporosis in elderly patients with atherosclerosis. 2022; 88:685-690. doi: 10.52628/88.4.01

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36800651/
