PMID: 36805389
Title: Estimating the Potential Economic Impact of Tissue Valve Replacement for Heart Valve Disease in China: Patient-Level and Population-Level Cost-Benefit Simulation Analyses.

Abstract: OBJECTIVES: This study seeks to estimate the potential societal economic impact of treating patients with heart valve disease (HVD) in China with surgical tissue valve replacement versus mechanical valves.
METHODS: This societal economic cost-benefit evaluation is based on an individual simulation model for subgroups of patients with HVD that is also aggregated to a macrosocietal model. The individual simulation model was developed to estimate the likely economic impact of surgical aortic valve replacement (SAVR) with tissue versus mechanical valves for different subgroups among all eligible patients with HVD over their remaining lifetimes. Clinical inputs were informed by health claims database analysis, expert clinical opinion, and published literature. Epidemiological inputs and demographic inputs were sourced from the published literature and the China Statistical Yearbook 2020. Health gains were valued at 3 times the average national income.
RESULTS: Projected total lifetime economic gains were greater for patients receiving tissue valves. Costs were reported in 2021 US dollars. The average lifetime net economic gain for tissue valve patients was $51 736 (20.0% more than for mechanical valve patients). Increasing the use of tissue valves to 50% among all eligible patients with HVD would provide aggregate long-term economic gains of $167 billion during their remaining lifetimes. The economic gains from greater tissue valve use were due to avoiding anticoagulation monitoring costs, improved quality of life, and greater post-SAVR labor force participation.
CONCLUSION: Increased use of tissue valves versus mechanical values in SAVR procedures in China would be likely to generate a substantial societal economic gain.

Citation: Wang B, et al. Estimating the Potential Economic Impact of Tissue Valve Replacement for Heart Valve Disease in China: Patient-Level and Population-Level Cost-Benefit Simulation Analyses. Estimating the Potential Economic Impact of Tissue Valve Replacement for Heart Valve Disease in China: Patient-Level and Population-Level Cost-Benefit Simulation Analyses. 2023; 35:19-26. doi: 10.1016/j.vhri.2023.01.002

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36805389/
