PMID: 36808052
Title: Visual outcomes in carotid stenosis patients treated using endarterectomy.

Abstract: IntroductionCarotid arthrosclerosis can be a cause of visual impairment. It has been observed that carotid endarterectomy has a positive effect on ophthalmic parameters. The aim of this study was to evaluate the impact of endarterectomy on the optic nerve function.Materials and methods54 asymptomatic patients (19 women and 35 men - 108 eyes) with unilateral carotid stenosis &gt;70% of internal carotid artery, were recruited to the study. All of them were qualified for the endarterectomy procedure. The whole study group underwent Doppler ultrasonography of internal carotid arteries and ophthalmic examination before the surgery, with 22 of them (11 women and 11 men) were examined after the endarterectomy. The ophthalmic examination included; distant best-corrected visual acuity, measurement of the intraocular pressure, electrophysiology (pattern visual evoked potentials), perimetry, and optical coherent tomography (the retinal nerve fiber layer thickness).DiscussionCarotid arteries supply brain and face with blood. Extensive research has observed a concomitant improvement in eyesight after enduring carotid endarterectomy in patients with artery stenosis. This effect was associated with a better blood flow in the ophthalmic artery and its branches, the central retinal artery and the ciliary artery; the major blood supply of the eye.ResultsThe present study proved that carotid endarterectomy has a positive impact on the function of the optic nerve. The visual field parameters and amplitude of pattern visual evoked potentials significantly improved. Preoperative and postoperative values of intraocular pressure and the retinal nerve fiber layer thickness remained stable.

Citation: Krasińska-Płachta A, et al. Visual outcomes in carotid stenosis patients treated using endarterectomy. Visual outcomes in carotid stenosis patients treated using endarterectomy. 2023; 95:1-5. doi: 10.5604/01.3001.0016.2123

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36808052/
