PMID: 36817912
Title: Characteristics analysis of 157 cases of central airway stenosis due to tracheobronchial tuberculosis: A descriptive study.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Tracheobronchial stenosis, particularly central airway stenosis, which frequently results in severe complications such as lung damage, occurs in patients with tracheobronchial tuberculosis (TBTB).
OBJECTIVES: To analyze the clinical characteristics of patients with central airway stenosis due to tuberculosis (CASTB).
METHODS: Retrospective analysis was performed on the clinical features, radiological features, bronchoscopic features and treatment of 157 patients who were diagnosed with CASTB in two tertiary hospitals in Chongqing, China, from May 2020 to May 2022.
RESULTS: CASTB mostly occurs in young patients and females. Patients with CASTB exhibited different symptoms repeatedly during the disease, especially varying degrees of dyspnea, prompting many patients to undergo bronchoscopic intervention and even surgery. Patients with cicatricial strictures constituted the highest proportion of the TBTB subtype with CASTB and 35.7% of the patients with CASTB were found to have tracheobronchomalacia (TBM) under bronchoscopy. CASTB and TBM mainly involved the left main bronchus. Patients with lower levels of education had higher rates of TBM. Patients with TBM manifested shortness of breath more frequently than patients without TBM. Patients with TBTB who had undergone bronchoscopic interventions have a higher rate of TBM.
CONCLUSIONS: Despite mostly adequate anti-tuberculosis chemotherapy, patients with TBTB can present with CASTB involving severe scarring stenosis, bronchial occlusion, tracheobronchomalacia and even destroyed lung.

Citation: Zhuang R, et al. Characteristics analysis of 157 cases of central airway stenosis due to tracheobronchial tuberculosis: A descriptive study. Characteristics analysis of 157 cases of central airway stenosis due to tracheobronchial tuberculosis: A descriptive study. 2023; 11:1115177. doi: 10.3389/fpubh.2023.1115177

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36817912/
