PMID: 36814540
Title: Quantification of new intracerebral lesions on diffusion-weighted magnetic resonance imaging after transcarotid artery revascularization for treatment of carotid artery stenosis.

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: Transcarotid artery revascularization (TCAR) has been used with increasing prevalence for treatment of carotid artery stenosis. TCAR holds potential benefits over traditional carotid endarterectomy (CEA) or transfemoral carotid artery stenting by its nature of being less invasive than CEA but more neuroprotective than transfemoral carotid artery stenting. The purpose of this pilot study is to evaluate the effectiveness of the neuroprotection system of TCAR with flow reversal by quantifying the incidence and degree of new intracerebral lesions using diffusion-weighted magnetic resonance imaging (DW-MRI). This study is the first to evaluate these findings in a real-world, high-risk cohort, who would have been excluded from the ROADSTER and ENROUTE transcarotid neuroprotection system DW-MRI studies.
METHODS: Patients undergoing unilateral TCAR for symptomatic or asymptomatic severe internal carotid artery disease were eligible and prospectively enrolled in the study. All patients had high risk features, including comorbidities or medications, which excluded them from industry-sponsored DW-MRI trials. Patients underwent a preoperative DW-MRI to obtain a baseline intracerebral evaluation within 1 week of the scheduled surgery. The follow-up DW-MRI occurred within 48 hours postoperatively. The primary outcome was new, acute postoperative lesion(s) identified on DW-MRI. Secondary outcomes include any major stroke, myocardial infarction, or death during hospitalization.
RESULTS: Five consecutive patients underwent TCAR with preoperative and postoperative imaging. All five patients were on dual antiplatelet therapy before their procedure and verified to be therapeutic on these agents. All patients underwent a right-sided TCAR and three were symptomatic as the indication for their procedure. All five patients demonstrated chronic lesions on the preoperative DW-MRI. Technical success was achieved in all five patients, with one operative complication involving a dissection of the common carotid at the access site, which was stented using the TCAR system. Postoperative DW-MRI did not identify any new intracerebral lesions in any patient following the procedure. No patient had a stroke, myocardial infarction, or death during hospitalization.
CONCLUSIONS: In this real-world, high-risk cohort, TCAR was completed with no evidence of new, postoperative DW-MRI lesions. These data further demonstrate that TCAR with flow reversal is an effective neuroprotective strategy for carotid revascularization. Further study is warranted to evaluate DW-MRI differences between TCAR and CEA.

Citation: Balceniuk MD, et al. Quantification of new intracerebral lesions on diffusion-weighted magnetic resonance imaging after transcarotid artery revascularization for treatment of carotid artery stenosis. Quantification of new intracerebral lesions on diffusion-weighted magnetic resonance imaging after transcarotid artery revascularization for treatment of carotid artery stenosis. 2023; 9:101102. doi: 10.1016/j.jvscit.2023.101102

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36814540/
