PMID: 36819290
Title: The automatic evaluation of steno-occlusive changes in time-of-flight magnetic resonance angiography of moyamoya patients using a 3D coordinate attention residual network.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Moyamoya disease (MMD) is a rare cerebrovascular occlusive disease with progressive stenosis of the terminal portion of internal cerebral artery (ICA) and its main branches, which can cause complications, such as high risks of disability and increased mortality. Accurate and timely diagnosis may be difficult for physicians who are unfamiliar to MMD. Therefore, this study aims to achieve a preoperative deep-learning-based evaluation of MMD by detecting steno-occlusive changes in the middle cerebral artery or distal ICA areas.
METHODS: A fine-tuned deep learning model was developed using a three-dimensional (3D) coordinate attention residual network (3D CA-ResNet). This study enrolled 50 preoperative patients with MMD and 50 controls, and the corresponding time of flight magnetic resonance angiography (TOF-MRA) imaging data were acquired. The 3D CA-ResNet was trained based on sub-volumes and tested using patch-based and subject-based methods. The performance of the 3D CA-ResNet, as evaluated by the area under the curve (AUC) of receiving-operator characteristic, was compared with that of three other conventional 3D networks.
RESULTS: With the resulting network, the patch-based test achieved an AUC value of 0.94 for the 3D CA-ResNet in 480 patches from 10 test patients and 10 test controls, which is significantly higher than the results of the others. The 3D CA-ResNet correctly classified the MMD patients and normal healthy controls, and the vascular lesion distribution in subjects with the disease was investigated by generating a stenosis probability map and 3D vascular structure segmentation.
CONCLUSIONS: The results demonstrated the reliability of the proposed 3D CA-ResNet in detecting stenotic areas on TOF-MRA imaging, and it outperformed three other models in identifying vascular steno-occlusive changes in patients with MMD.

Citation: Zhang Z, et al. The automatic evaluation of steno-occlusive changes in time-of-flight magnetic resonance angiography of moyamoya patients using a 3D coordinate attention residual network. The automatic evaluation of steno-occlusive changes in time-of-flight magnetic resonance angiography of moyamoya patients using a 3D coordinate attention residual network. 2023; 13:1009-1022. doi: 10.21037/qims-22-799

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36819290/
