PMID: 36826169
Title: Combined Invasive Peripheral Nerve Stimulation in the Management of Chronic Post-Intracranial Disorder Headache: A Case Report.

Abstract: The introduction of ventricular shunts dramatically changed the outcome and quality of life of hydrocephalic patients. However, shunt surgery continues to be associated with numerous adverse events. Headache is one of the most common complications after shunt operation. It is often of prolonged duration, the symptoms resemble those of migraine, and pain does not respond to medication. We propose invasive peripheral nerve stimulation as a potential solution in the treatment of patients suffering from chronic headache associated with shunted hydrocephalus. A young woman presented with daily holocephalic headache with diffuse pain exacerbated by lying down. Imaging revealed panventricular enlargement and possible aqueduct stenosis. When a ventriculoperitoneal shunt was placed, clinical symptoms resolved. Nevertheless, she gradually exacerbated after a second valve replacement due to wound infection. Imaging revealed decompressed ventricles and appropriate shunt placement. The diagnosis of chronic post-intracranial disorder headache was set. Therefore, occipital nerve stimulation was applied and, considering that the patient did not have a total response, bilateral parietal stimulation was added. Three months after the combined PNS, she experienced total remission of headache. Combined PNS eases refractory headaches much more than occipital nerve stimulation alone and could be considered as a solution for shunted hydrocephalus-associated headache.

Citation: Alexoudi A, et al. Combined Invasive Peripheral Nerve Stimulation in the Management of Chronic Post-Intracranial Disorder Headache: A Case Report. Combined Invasive Peripheral Nerve Stimulation in the Management of Chronic Post-Intracranial Disorder Headache: A Case Report. 2023; 13:297-304. doi: 10.3390/clinpract13010027

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36826169/
