PMID: 36823656
Title: Low-intensity pulsed ultrasound triggers a beneficial neuromodulation in dementia mice with chronic cerebral hypoperfusion via activation of hippocampal Fndc5/irisin signaling.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Exercise-related signaling Fndc5/irisin expresses in brain and acts as a crucial regulator of cognitive function, but its detailed roles in vascular dementia (VaD) are still unclear. Low intensity pulsed ultrasound (LIPUS), a novel brain stimulation approach, has been suggested as a promising treatment for dementia. Here, we investigated the activity and efficacy of Fndc5/irisin in experimental VaD, further explored whether the potential effects of LIPUS on VaD is related to Fndc5/irisin.
METHODS: Mouse model of VaD was established with chronic cerebral hypoperfusion (CCH) using bilateral common carotid arteries stenosis (BCAS). Transcranial LIPUS was applied 24 h after BCAS and subsequently daily with a stimulation time of 5 min at an ultrasound pressure of 0.51 MPa for a period of 28 days. The levels of Fndc5/irisin in different brain regions, the hippocampal long-term potentiation and anti-inflammatory cytokines were investigated at day 28 after cognitive evaluation. Global Fndc5 knock-out (F5KO), forced expression or knockdown of Fndc5, and recombinant irisin application were respectively employed for mechanism exploration. The neuron dendritic spine density and astrocyte phenotype were detected in vitro.
RESULTS: Fndc5/irisin was reduced in hippocampus of BCAS mice, forced expression hippocampal Fndc5 or bilateral intrahippocampal injection of recombinant irisin respectively improved hippocampal synaptic plasticity or inflammatory microenvironment, and then alleviated the cognitive impairments. LIPUS existed a positive efficacy in enhancing hippocampal Fndc5/irisin in BCAS mice, thus triggering a beneficial neuromodulation for VaD protection. Importantly, the neurorestorative effects of LIPUS on CCH-induced damages were totally reversed by knockdown the expression of hippocampal Fndc5 in WT mice, or in F5KO mice. Moreover, Fndc5 mediated the upregulated effects of LIPUS on spine density as well as irisin secretion of hippocampal neurons. The neuron-secreted irisin further drove reactive astrocytes to a neuroprotective phenotype.
CONCLUSION: LIPUS induced a neurorestorative stimulation against VaD may be through upregulation of the hippocampal Fndc5/irisin levels. Hippocampal Fndc5/irisin signaling might be a promising strategic target for VaD.

Citation: Song D, et al. Low-intensity pulsed ultrasound triggers a beneficial neuromodulation in dementia mice with chronic cerebral hypoperfusion via activation of hippocampal Fndc5/irisin signaling. Low-intensity pulsed ultrasound triggers a beneficial neuromodulation in dementia mice with chronic cerebral hypoperfusion via activation of hippocampal Fndc5/irisin signaling. 2023; 21:139. doi: 10.1186/s12967-022-03824-7

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36823656/
