PMID: 36832133
Title: Carotid Plaque Vulnerability Diagnosis by CTA versus MRA: A Systematic Review.

Abstract: Stenosis grade of the carotid arteries has been the primary indicator for risk stratification and surgical treatment of carotid artery disease. Certain characteristics of the carotid plaque render it vulnerable and have been associated with increased plaque rupture rates. Computed tomography angiography (CTA) and magnetic resonance angiography (MRA) have been shown to detect these characteristics to a different degree. The aim of the current study was to report on the detection of vulnerable carotid plaque characteristics by CTA and MRA and their possible association. A systematic review of the medical literature was executed, utilizing PubMed, SCOPUS and CENTRAL databases, according to the Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic Reviews and Meta-Analysis (PRISMA) 2020 guidelines. The study protocol has been registered to PROSPERO (CRD42022381801). Comparative studies reporting on both CTA and MRA carotid artery studies were included in the analysis. The QUADAS tools were used for risk of bias diagnostic imaging studies. Outcomes included carotid plaque vulnerability characteristics described in CTA and MRA and their association. Five studies, incorporating 377 patients and 695 carotid plaques, were included. Four studies reported on symptomatic status (326 patients, 92.9%). MRA characteristics included intraplaque hemorrhage, plaque ulceration, type VI AHA plaque hallmarks and intra-plaque high-intensity signal. Intraplaque hemorrhage detected in MRA was the most described characteristic and was associated with increased plaque density, increased lumen stenosis, plaque ulceration and increased soft-plaque and hard-plaque thickness. Certain characteristics of vulnerable carotid plaques can be detected in carotid artery CTA imaging studies. Nevertheless, MRA continues to provide more detailed and thorough imaging. Both imaging modalities can be applied for comprehensive carotid artery work-up, each one complementing the other.

Citation: Dakis K, et al. Carotid Plaque Vulnerability Diagnosis by CTA versus MRA: A Systematic Review. Carotid Plaque Vulnerability Diagnosis by CTA versus MRA: A Systematic Review. 2023; 13:(unknown pages). doi: 10.3390/diagnostics13040646

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36832133/
