PMID: 36836075
Title: Subtotal Nephrectomy Associated with a High-Phosphate Diet in Rats Mimics the Development of Calcified Aortic Valve Disease Associated with Chronic Renal Failure.

Abstract: Introduction. This study addressed the hypothesis that subtotal nephrectomy associated with a high-phosphorus diet (5/6Nx + P) in rats represents a suitable animal model to mimic the cardiovascular consequences of chronic kidney disease (CKD) including calcified aortic valve disease (CAVD). Indeed, the latter contributes to the high morbidity and mortality of CKD patients and sorely lacks preclinical models for pathophysiological and pharmacological studies. Methods. Renal and cardiovascular function and structure were compared between sham-operated and 5/6 Nx rats + P 10 to 12 weeks after surgery. Results. As expected, 11 weeks after surgery, 5/6Nx + P rats developed CKD as demonstrated by their increase in plasma creatinine and urea nitrogen and decrease in glomerular filtration rate, estimated by using fluorescein-isothiocyanate-labelled sinistrin, anemia, polyuria, and polydipsia compared to sham-operated animals on a normal-phosphorus diet. At the vascular level, 5/6Nx + P rats had an increase in the calcium content of the aorta; a decrease in mesenteric artery dilatation in response to a stepwise increase in flow, illustrating the vascular dysfunction; and an increase in blood pressure. Moreover, immunohistology showed a marked deposition of hydroxyapatite crystals in the aortic valve of 5/6Nx + P rats. Echocardiography demonstrated that this was associated with a decrease in aortic valve cusp separation and an increase in aortic valve mean pressure gradient and in peak aortic valve velocity. Left-ventricular diastolic and systolic dysfunction as well as fibrosis were also present in 5/6Nx + P rats. Conclusion. This study demonstrates that 5/6Nx + P recapitulates the cardiovascular consequences observed in humans with CKD. In particular, the initiation of CAVD was shown, highlighting the interest of this animal model to study the mechanisms involved in the development of aortic stenosis and test new therapeutic strategies at an early stage of the disease.

Citation: Messaoudi H, et al. Subtotal Nephrectomy Associated with a High-Phosphate Diet in Rats Mimics the Development of Calcified Aortic Valve Disease Associated with Chronic Renal Failure. Subtotal Nephrectomy Associated with a High-Phosphate Diet in Rats Mimics the Development of Calcified Aortic Valve Disease Associated with Chronic Renal Failure. 2023; 12:(unknown pages). doi: 10.3390/jcm12041539

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36836075/
