PMID: 36830843
Title: Purinergic Signaling in Pathologic Osteogenic Differentiation of Aortic Valve Interstitial Cells from Patients with Aortic Valve Calcification.

Abstract: Purinergic signaling is associated with a vast spectrum of physiological processes, including cardiovascular system function and, in particular, its pathological calcifications, such as aortic valve stenosis. Aortic valve stenosis (AS) is a degenerative disease for which there is no cure other than surgical replacement of the affected valve. Purinergic signaling is known to be involved in the pathologic osteogenic differentiation of valve interstitial cells (VIC) into osteoblast-like cells, which underlies the pathogenesis of AS. ATP, its metabolites and related nucleotides also act as signaling molecules in normal osteogenic differentiation, which is observed in pro-osteoblasts and leads to bone tissue development. We show that stenotic and non-stenotic valve interstitial cells significantly differ from each other, especially under osteogenic stimuli. In osteogenic conditions, the expression of the ecto-nucleotidases ENTPD1 and ENPP1, as well as ADORA2b, is increased in AS VICs compared to normal VICs. In addition, AS VICs after osteogenic stimulation look more similar to osteoblasts than non-stenotic VICs in terms of purinergic signaling, which suggests the stronger osteogenic differentiation potential of AS VICs. Thus, purinergic signaling is impaired in stenotic aortic valves and might be used as a potential target in the search for an anti-calcification therapy.

Citation: Klauzen P, et al. Purinergic Signaling in Pathologic Osteogenic Differentiation of Aortic Valve Interstitial Cells from Patients with Aortic Valve Calcification. Purinergic Signaling in Pathologic Osteogenic Differentiation of Aortic Valve Interstitial Cells from Patients with Aortic Valve Calcification. 2023; 11:(unknown pages). doi: 10.3390/biomedicines11020307

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36830843/
