PMID: 36847677
Title: Comparative study of male and female patients undergoing surgical aortic valve replacement.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Sex does have an effect on disease perception and outcomes after cardiac surgery.
OBJECTIVES: The aim of this study was to quantify the differences in cardiovascular risk profiles within an age-matched cohort and assess the long-term survival differences in males and females who underwent surgical aortic valve replacement (SAVR) with or without concomitant coronary artery bypass surgery.
METHODS: All-comers patients who underwent SAVR with or without coronary artery bypass surgery were included. Characteristics, clinical features and survival up to 30 years were compared between female and male patients. Propensity matching and age matching using propensity scores were used to compare both groups.
RESULTS: During the total study period between 1987 and 2017, there were 3462 patients {mean age 66.8 [standard deviation (SD): 11.1] years, 37.1% female} who underwent SAVR with or without coronary artery bypass surgery at our institution. In general, female patients were older than male patients (69.1 (SD : 10.3) versus 65.5 (SD : 11.3), respectively). In the age-matched cohort, female patients were less likely to have multiple comorbidities and undergo concomitant coronary artery bypass surgery. Twenty-year survival following the index procedure was higher in age-matched female patients (27.1%) compared to male patients (24.4%) in the overall cohort (P = 0.018).
CONCLUSIONS: Substantial sex differences in cardiovascular risk profile exist. However, when SAVR with or without coronary artery bypass surgery is performed, extended long-term mortality is comparable between males and females. More research regarding sex-dimorphic mechanisms of aortic stenosis and coronary atherosclerosis would promote more awareness in terms of sex-specific risk factors after cardiac surgery and contribute to more guided personalized surgery in the future.

Citation: Çelik M, et al. Comparative study of male and female patients undergoing surgical aortic valve replacement. Comparative study of male and female patients undergoing surgical aortic valve replacement. 2023; 36:(unknown pages). doi: 10.1093/icvts/ivad019

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36847677/
