PMID: 36847401
Title: A Modified Technique for Arteriovenous Fistula Construction in Rabbits.

Abstract: Juxta-anastomotic stenosis is a challenging problem that often causes non-maturation and decreases the patency of an arteriovenous fistula (AVF). Injury to the veins and arteries during the operation and hemodynamic changes can lead to intimal hyperplasia, leading to juxta-anastomotic stenosis. To reduce injury to the veins and arteries during the operation, this study proposes a new modified no-touch technique (MNTT) for AVF construction that can decrease the rate of juxta-anastomotic stenosis and improve the AVF patency. To unravel the hemodynamic changes and mechanisms of the MNTT, this study presented an AVF procedure using this technique. Although this procedure is technically challenging, 94.4% procedural success was achieved after adequate training. Ultimately, 13 out of 34 rabbits had a functional AVF 4 weeks after the surgery, leading to a 38.2% AVF patency rate. However, at 4 weeks, the survival rate was 86.1%. Ultrasonography showed active blood flow through AVF anastomosis. Furthermore, the spiral laminar flow was observed in the vein and artery near the anastomosis, suggesting that this technique may improve the hemodynamics of the AVF. On histological observation, significant venous intimal hyperplasia was observed at the AVF anastomosis, whereas no significant intimal hyperplasia was observed at the proximal external jugular vein (EJV) of the anastomosis. This technique will improve the understanding of the mechanisms underlying the use of MNTT for AVF construction and provide technical support for the further optimization of the surgical approach in AVF construction.

Citation: Zhen L, et al. A Modified Technique for Arteriovenous Fistula Construction in Rabbits. A Modified Technique for Arteriovenous Fistula Construction in Rabbits. 2023; (unknown volume):(unknown pages). doi: 10.3791/64352

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36847401/
