PMID: 36856166
Title: Congenital Malformations of the Cricoid Cartilage: Upper Airway Obstruction and Treatment Strategy.

Abstract: OBJECTIVES: To review treatment and outcomes in patients with congenital cricoid cartilage malformation.
METHODS: Retrospective analysis of patients with diagnosis of congenital cricoid malformation (CCM) treated in a single tertiary pediatric referral center between 1985 and 2022. Patients were grouped according to the morphology of the cricoid cartilage that was diagnosed during endoscopy. We reviewed the treatment strategy(s), decannulation rate, complications, and functional outcomes.
RESULTS: Twenty-nine patients were grouped into four morphological subtypes of cricoid cartilage: 10 patients had a hypoplastic cricoid, eight had an elliptic shape, five had severe anterior thickening, and six an accentuated V-shape posterior cricoid plate. Twenty-four patients underwent surgery, and five were closely followed up without surgical treatment. Eight patients had a tracheostomy prior to surgery, and the majority had a hypoplastic cricoid. Most patients (20 out of 24) required additional procedures postoperatively to achieve an age-appropriate airway. Thirteen patients needed endoscopic dilatation(s) and granulation tissue removal; four needed more aggressive treatment, and three patients required revision open surgery. Decannulation was achieved after a median of 4.5 months in all previously tracheostomized patients. Endoscopy at the last follow-up showed an age-appropriate airway in 27 patients; 20 patients had normal oral feeding, and 11 patients had a normal voice.
CONCLUSION: Endoscopy is important to diagnose CCM and most of the time patients would need only watchful waiting. In this report, surgery was required for patients who continued to remain symptomatic and had a compromised airway. The type of surgery depends on the type of cricoid malformation and the grade of stenosis.
LEVEL OF EVIDENCE: 4 Laryngoscope, 133:3185-3191, 2023.

Citation: Gombert E, et al. Congenital Malformations of the Cricoid Cartilage: Upper Airway Obstruction and Treatment Strategy. Congenital Malformations of the Cricoid Cartilage: Upper Airway Obstruction and Treatment Strategy. 2023; 133:3185-3191. doi: 10.1002/lary.30626

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36856166/
