PMID: 36855476
Title: Evaluation of Functional Capacity and Satisfaction of Patients With Lumbosacral Fusion.

Abstract: INTRODUCTION: Spinal fusion is a surgical procedure that has been successfully conducted for many years. It is applied for various indications, such as degeneration, deformity, instability, spinal stenosis, trauma, tumor, and infection. This study aims to determine the effects of this procedure on daily life and sleep quality by examining postoperative symptoms and refractory complaints of patients who underwent lumbosacral fusion for various indications.
METHODS: The files of the patients who underwent only posterolateral lumbosacral fusion for various indications between June 2021 and July 2022 were reviewed retrospectively. Patients who had had regular clinical follow-ups for at least six months postoperatively were included in the study. Preoperative and postoperative Visual Analog Scale (VAS), Oswestry Disability Index (ODI), and Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index (PSQI) scores were compared using the Wilcoxon Ordinal Signs test. A p-value of <0.05 was considered statistically significant.
RESULTS: Twenty patients were included in the study. The mean age of the patients was 68.2 ± 7.5 (54-79). Three (15%) of the patients were males, and seventeen (85%) were females. Improvement was observed in all three scores, i.e., VAS, ODI, and PSQI assessments. No correlation was found between the number of segments undergoing fusion, body mass index (BMI), and clinical outcomes.
CONCLUSION: Spinal fusion surgery is still viewed as the gold standard treatment method for many indications. Posterolateral fusion provides adequate stabilization in many cases when applied correctly. However, the possibility of persistent or newly developing low back pain in the postoperative period as a result of mechanical reasons should not be forgotten, and patients should be informed about the same. Postoperative expectations should, thus, be shaped accordingly.

Citation: Bozduman Ö, et al. Evaluation of Functional Capacity and Satisfaction of Patients With Lumbosacral Fusion. Evaluation of Functional Capacity and Satisfaction of Patients With Lumbosacral Fusion. 2023; 15:e34284. doi: 10.7759/cureus.34284

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36855476/
