PMID: 36856983
Title: Colchicine exerts anti-atherosclerotic and -plaque-stabilizing effects targeting foam cell formation.

Abstract: Colchicine is a broad-acting anti-inflammatory agent that has attracted interest for repurposing in atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease. Here, we studied its ability at a human equivalent dose of 0.5 mg/day to modify plaque formation and composition in murine atherosclerosis and investigated its actions on macrophage responses to atherogenic stimuli in vitro. In atherosclerosis induced by high-cholesterol diet, Apoe-/- mice treated with colchicine had 50% reduction in aortic oil Red O+ plaque area compared to saline control (p = .001) and lower oil Red O+ staining of aortic sinus lesions (p = .03). In vitro, addition of 10 nM colchicine inhibited foam cell formation from murine and human macrophages after treatment with oxidized LDL (ox-LDL). Mechanistically, colchicine downregulated glycosylation and surface expression of the ox-LDL uptake receptor, CD36, and reduced CD36+ staining in aortic sinus plaques. It also decreased macrophage uptake of cholesterol crystals, resulting in lower intracellular lysosomal activity, inhibition of the NLRP3 inflammasome, and reduced secretion of IL-1β and IL-18. Colchicine's anti-atherosclerotic actions were accentuated in a mouse model of unstable plaque induced by carotid artery tandem stenosis surgery, where it decreased lesion size by 48% (p = .01), reduced lipid (p = .006) and necrotic core area (p = .007), increased collagen content and cap-to-necrotic core ratio (p = .05), and attenuated plaque neutrophil extracellular traps (p &lt; .001). At low dose, colchicine's effects were not accompanied by the evidence of microtubule depolymerization. Together, these results show that colchicine exerts anti-atherosclerotic and plaque-stabilizing effects at low dose by inhibiting foam cell formation and cholesterol crystal-induced inflammation. This provides a new framework to support its repurposing for atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease.

Citation: Schwarz N, et al. Colchicine exerts anti-atherosclerotic and -plaque-stabilizing effects targeting foam cell formation. Colchicine exerts anti-atherosclerotic and -plaque-stabilizing effects targeting foam cell formation. 2023; 37:e22846. doi: 10.1096/fj.202201469R

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36856983/
