PMID: 36858414
Title: [Effect of electroacupuncture on transforming growth factor-β1 and renal tubular epithelial mesenchymal transformation in renal tissue of spontaneously hypertensive rats].

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: To observe the effects of electroacupuncture (EA) on renal fibrosis, the expression of transforming growth factor-β1 (TGF-β1) and epithelial mesenchymal transition (EMT) marker proteins in renal tissue of spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR), so as to explore the underlying mechanism on EA alleviating hypertensive renal impairment.
METHODS: Twenty-four male SHR were randomly divided into model group, losartan group and EA group, with 8 rats in each group, and eight male Wistar-Kyoto rats were taken as the normal group. Rats in the losartan group received gavage of losartan potassium solution (3 mg/mL, 30 mg·kg-1·d-1),once every other day for 12 weeks. Rats in the EA group received EA stimulation at bilateral "Shenshu" (BL23) and "Geshu" (BL17) (2 Hz/15 Hz, 1.0 mA), 15 min each time, once every other day for 12 weeks. The systolic blood pressure of caudal artery was measured before, and 4, 8 and 12 weeks after the intervention. The 24-hour urinary protein was measured before, and 6 and 12 weeks after the intervention. Histopathological changes of the left renal tissue were observed under light mircoscope after H.E. stain. Extracellular matrix (ECM) in renal tissues was observed after periodate Schiff staining. Basement membrane and collagen fibers were observed after Masson staining with collagen volume fraction (CVF) evaluated. The expression of TGF-β1 mRNA in the right renal was detected by real-time fluorescence quantitative PCR. The expression of TGF-β1 and EMT marker E-cadherin, α-SMA and fibronectin (FN) proteins in the left renal tissue was measured by immunohistochemistry.
RESULTS: In the model group, irregular arrangement of nephrocytes, renal tubule atrophy, lumen stenosis, ECM hyperplasia and deposition, scar and sclerosis were observed, which were relatively milder in the EA and losartan groups. Compared with the normal group, tubulointerstitium CVF, systolic blood pressure of caudal artery before, and at 4, 8 and 12 weeks after the intervention, 24-hour urinary protein before, and at 6 and 12 weeks after the intervention, the expression of TGF-β1 mRNA, area of TGF-β1, α-SMA and FN positive staining in renal tissues were significantly increased (P&lt;0.01), while the area of E-cadherin positive staining was significantly decreased (P&lt;0.01) in the model group. Compared with the model group, tubulointerstitium CVF, systolic blood pressure of caudal artery at 4, 8 and 12 weeks after the intervention, 24-hour urinary protein at 6 and 12 weeks after the intervention, the expression of TGF-β1 mRNA, area of TGF-β1, α-SMA and FN positive staining in renal tissues were significantly decreased (P&lt;0.01，P&lt;0.05), while area of E-cadherin positive staining was significantly increased (P&lt;0.01) in the losartan and EA groups. Compared with the losartan group, the area of E-cadherin was conside-rately increased (P&lt;0.01), while the area of α-SMA protein decreased (P&lt;0.01) in the EA group.
CONCLUSION: EA could effectively alleviate hypertension and renal interstitial fibrosis in SHR, the mechanism of which may be related to its function in reducing the expression of TGF-β1 and inhibiting EMT in renal tissue.

Citation: Luo L, et al. [Effect of electroacupuncture on transforming growth factor-β1 and renal tubular epithelial mesenchymal transformation in renal tissue of spontaneously hypertensive rats]. [Effect of electroacupuncture on transforming growth factor-β1 and renal tubular epithelial mesenchymal transformation in renal tissue of spontaneously hypertensive rats]. 2023; 48:172-9. doi: 10.13702/j.1000-0607.20220281

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36858414/
