PMID: 36864960
Title: The role of hemodialysis access duplex ultrasound for evaluation of patency and access surveillance.

Abstract: The rise in prevalence of end stage renal disease (ESRD) and the impact on health care resulted in increasing focus on delivery of vascular access. Hemodialysis vascular access is the most common renal replacement therapy method. The vascular access types include arteriovenous fistula, arteriovenous graft, and tunneled central venous catheters. Vascular access function remains an important outcome measure with significant impact on morbidity and health care cost. The survival and quality of life of patients on hemodialysis is dependent on the adequacy of dialysis through proper vascular access. Early detection of failure to mature vascular access, stenosis, thrombosis, and aneurysm or pseudoaneurysm formation remains crucial. Ultrasound can help identify complications, even though ultrasound evaluation of the arteriovenous access is less well defined. Some published vascular access guidelines support ultrasound for detecting stenosis. The evolution of ultrasound has improved throughout the years, both multi parametric top-line systems and hand-held systems. Ultrasound evaluation is inexpensive, rapid, noninvasive, and repeatable, it is a powerful tool used for early diagnosis. The ultrasound image quality still depends on the skill of the operator. Careful attention to technical details is needed and avoidance of several diagnostic pitfalls is necessary. This review is focused on the role of ultrasound for hemodialysis access surveillance, evaluation of maturation, detection of access complications, and aid with cannulation.

Citation: Saati A, et al. The role of hemodialysis access duplex ultrasound for evaluation of patency and access surveillance. The role of hemodialysis access duplex ultrasound for evaluation of patency and access surveillance. 2023; 13:190-195. doi: 10.21037/cdt-22-129

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36864960/
