PMID: 36864951
Title: Atherosclerotic plaque composition and specific endovascular considerations in the end stage renal disease patients: a narrative review.

Abstract: BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVE: Vascular calcification (VC) and resulting vascular disease is one of the major causes of cardiovascular morbidity and mortality in patients with chronic kidney disease (CKD). CKD itself is increasingly recognized as a risk factor for cardiac and peripheral arterial disease (PAD). This paper examines the atherosclerotic plaque composition and specific endovascular considerations in the end stage renal disease (ESRD) patients. The literature was reviewed regarding the current status of medical and interventional management arteriosclerotic disease in patients with CKD. Lastly, three representative cases displaying typical endovascular treatment options are provided.
METHODS: A literature search was performed in PubMed covering publications up to September 2021 as well as discussion with experts in the field.
KEY CONTENT AND FINDINGS: The high prevalence of atherosclerotic lesions in patients with chronic renal failure and high (re-)stenosis cause problems in the medium and long term as vascular calcium load represents one of the most widely encountered predictors of failure of endovascular treatment of PAD and future cardiovascular events (e.g., coronary calcium score). Patients with CKD also suffer from a greater risk for major vascular adverse events in general and worse revascularization outcomes following peripheral vascular intervention. A correlation between calcium burden and drug-coated balloon (DCB) performance has been established for PAD necessitating the need for different tools to cope with vascular calcium such as endoprosthesis or braided stents. Patients with CKD are at a higher risk of developing contrast-induced nephropathy (CIN). In addition to recommendations such as the administration of intravenous fluids, carbon dioxide (CO<sub>2</sub>) angiography is one option to potentially provide an effective and safe alternative both to iodine-based contrast media allergy and to the use of iodine-based contrast media in patients with CKD.
CONCLUSIONS: Management and endovascular procedures of patients with ESRD are complex. In the course of time, new endovascular therapy methods have been developed such as directional atherectomy (DA) and the so-called "pave-and-crack" technique to deal with high vascular calcium burden. Besides interventional therapy, vascular patients with CKD benefit from aggressive medical management.

Citation: Ruff C, et al. Atherosclerotic plaque composition and specific endovascular considerations in the end stage renal disease patients: a narrative review. Atherosclerotic plaque composition and specific endovascular considerations in the end stage renal disease patients: a narrative review. 2023; 13:133-146. doi: 10.21037/cdt-22-53

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36864951/
