PMID: 36864952
Title: Feasibility of 3.0 T balanced fast field echo non-contrast-enhanced whole-heart coronary magnetic resonance angiography.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Coronary artery disease (CAD) is one of the most common diseases seriously harmful to human health caused by atherosclerosis. Besides coronary computed tomography angiography (CCTA) and invasive coronary angiography (ICA), coronary magnetic resonance angiography (CMRA) has become an alternative examination. The purpose of this study was to prospectively evaluate the feasibility of 3.0 T free-breathing whole-heart non-contrast-enhanced coronary magnetic resonance angiography (NCE-CMRA).
METHODS: After Institutional Review Board approval, the NCE-CMRA data sets of 29 patients acquired successfully at 3.0 T were evaluated independently by two blinded readers for visualization and image quality of coronary arteries using the subjective quality grade. The acquisition times were recorded in the meantime. A part of the patients had undergone CCTA, we represented stenosis by scores and used the Kappa to evaluate the consistency between CCTA and NCE-CMRA.
RESULTS: Six patients did not get diagnostic image quality because of severe artifacts. The image quality score assessed by both radiologists is 3.2±0.7, which means the NCE-CMRA can show the coronary arteries excellently. The main vessels of the coronary artery on NCE-CMRA images are considered reliably assessable. The acquisition time of NCE-CMRA, is 8.8±1.2 min. The Kappa of CCTA and NCE-CMRA on detecting stenosis is 0.842 (P<0.001).
CONCLUSIONS: The NCE-CMRA results in reliable image quality and visualization parameters of coronary arteries within a short scan time. The NCE-CMRA and CCTA have a good agreement for detecting stenosis.

Citation: Chen Y, et al. Feasibility of 3.0 T balanced fast field echo non-contrast-enhanced whole-heart coronary magnetic resonance angiography. Feasibility of 3.0 T balanced fast field echo non-contrast-enhanced whole-heart coronary magnetic resonance angiography. 2023; 13:51-60. doi: 10.21037/cdt-22-487

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36864952/
