PMID: 36877368
Title: Prevalence, diagnosis, and impact on clinical outcomes of dural ossification in the thoracic ossification of the ligamentum flavum: a systematic review.

Abstract: STUDY DESIGN: Systematic review.
BACKGROUND CONTEXT: Thoracic ossification of the ligamentum flavum (TOLF) has become the principal cause of thoracic spinal stenosis. Dural ossification (DO) was a common clinical feature accompanying with TOLF. However, on account of the rarity, we know little about the DO in TOLF so far.
PURPOSE: This study was conducted to elucidate the prevalence, diagnostic measures, and impact on the clinical outcomes of DO in TOLF by integrating the existing evidence.
METHODS: PubMed, Embase, and Cochrane Database were comprehensively searched for studies relevant to the prevalence, diagnostic measures, or impact on the clinical outcomes of DO in TOLF. All retrieved studies meeting the inclusion and criterion were included into this systematic review.
RESULTS: The prevalence of DO in TOLF treated surgically was 27% (281/1046), ranging from 11 to 67%. Eight diagnostic measures have been put forward to predict the DO in TOLF using the CT or MRI modalities, including "tram track sign", "comma sign", "bridge sign", "banner cloud sign", "T2 ring sign", TOLF-DO grading system, CSAOR grading system, and CCAR grading system. DO did not affect the neurological recovery of TOLF patients treated with the laminectomy. The rate of dural tear or CSF leakage in TOLF patients with DO was approximately 83% (149/180).
CONCLUSION: The prevalence of DO in TOLF treated surgically was 27%. Eight diagnostic measures have been put forward to predict the DO in TOLF. DO did not affect the neurological recovery of TOLF treated with laminectomy but was associated with high risk of complications.

Citation: Zhao Y, et al. Prevalence, diagnosis, and impact on clinical outcomes of dural ossification in the thoracic ossification of the ligamentum flavum: a systematic review. Prevalence, diagnosis, and impact on clinical outcomes of dural ossification in the thoracic ossification of the ligamentum flavum: a systematic review. 2023; 32:1245-1253. doi: 10.1007/s00586-023-07625-4

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36877368/
