PMID: 36877750
Title: Effect of 320-Row Computed Tomography Acquisition Technology on Coronary Computed Tomography Angiography-Derived Fractional Flow Reserve Based on Machine Learning: Systolic and Diastolic Scan Acquisition.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: The aim of the study is to investigate the performance of coronary computed tomography angiography (CCTA)-derived fractional flow reserve (CT-FFR) in the same patient evaluated by different systolic and diastolic scans, aiming to explore whether 320-slice CT scanning acquisition protocol has an impact on CT-FFR value.
METHODS: One hundred forty-six patients with suspected coronary artery stenosis who underwent CCTA examination were included into the study. The prospective electrocardiogram gated trigger sequence scan was performed and electrocardiogram editors selected 2 optimal phases of systolic phase (preset collection trigger at 25% of R-R interval) and diastolic phase (preset collection trigger at 75% of R-R interval) for reconstruction. The lowest CT-FFR value (the CT-FFR value at the distal end of each vessel) and the lesion CT-FFR value (at 2 cm distal to the stenosis) after coronary artery stenosis were calculated for each vessel. The difference of CT-FFR values between the 2 scanning techniques was compared using paired Wilcoxon signed-rank test. Pearson correlation value and Bland-Altman were performed to evaluate the consistency of CT-FFR values.
RESULTS: A total of 366 coronary arteries from the remaining 122 patients were analyzed. There was no significant difference regarding the lowest CT-FFR values between systole phase and diastole phase across all vessels. In addition, there was no significant difference in the lesion CT-FFR value after coronary artery stenosis between systole phase and diastole phase across all vessels. The CT-FFR value between the 2 reconstruction techniques had excellent correlation and minimal bias in all groups. The correlation coefficient of the lesion CT-FFR values for left anterior descending branch, left circumflex branch, and right coronary artery were 0.86, 0.84, and 0.76, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: Coronary computed tomography angiography-derived fractional flow reserve based on artificial intelligence deep learning neural network has stable performance, is not affected by the acquisition phase technology of 320-slice CT scan, and has high consistency with the evaluation of hemodynamics after coronary artery stenosis.

Citation: Yang F, et al. Effect of 320-Row Computed Tomography Acquisition Technology on Coronary Computed Tomography Angiography-Derived Fractional Flow Reserve Based on Machine Learning: Systolic and Diastolic Scan Acquisition. Effect of 320-Row Computed Tomography Acquisition Technology on Coronary Computed Tomography Angiography-Derived Fractional Flow Reserve Based on Machine Learning: Systolic and Diastolic Scan Acquisition. 2023; 47:205-211. doi: 10.1097/RCT.0000000000001423

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36877750/
