PMID: 36874755
Title: Malignant Airway Obstruction and the Use of Nd:YAG Laser: A Systematic Review on Its Efficacy and Safety.

Abstract: Endobronchial malignancies with significant airway obstruction can lead to multiple complications including pneumonia, and atelectasis over a period of time. Various intraluminal treatments have proven their value in palliative treatment for advanced malignancies. Nd:YAG (neodymium-doped yttrium aluminum garnet; Nd:Y3Al5O12) laser has established its role as a major palliative intervention due to its minimal side effects and improvement in quality of life by relieving local symptoms. The systematic review was conducted with the goal of elucidating the patient characteristics, pre-treatment parameters, clinical outcomes, and possible complications resulting from the use of the Nd:YAG laser. A thorough literature search for relevant studies was conducted on PubMed, Embase, and Cochrane Library from the inception of the idea to November 24, 2022. Our study included all original studies including retrospective studies and prospective trials, but excluded case reports, case series with less than 10 patients, and studies with incomplete or irrelevant data. A total of 11 studies were included in the analysis. The primary outcomes focused on the evaluation of pulmonary functional tests, postprocedural stenosis, blood gas parameters after the procedure, and survival outcomes. Improvement in clinical status, improvement in objective scale for dyspnea, and complications were the secondary outcomes. Our study shows that Nd:YAG laser treatment is an effective form of palliative treatment to provide subjective and objective improvement in patients with advanced and inoperable endobronchial malignancies. Due to the heterogeneous study populations in the studies reviewed and the presence of many limitations, more studies are still warranted to reach a definitive conclusion.

Citation: Umar Z, et al. Malignant Airway Obstruction and the Use of Nd:YAG Laser: A Systematic Review on Its Efficacy and Safety. Malignant Airway Obstruction and the Use of Nd:YAG Laser: A Systematic Review on Its Efficacy and Safety. 2023; 15:e34434. doi: 10.7759/cureus.34434

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36874755/
