PMID: 36878355
Title: Management of Hematometra and Hematocolpos in Obstructive Mullerian Anomalies by Image-Guided Drainage with Interventional Radiology: A Multi-Institutional Case Series.

Abstract: STUDY OBJECTIVE: To describe cases of image-guided drainage of symptomatic hematometrocolpos from obstructive Müllerian anomalies as a temporizing measure to manage acute pain symptoms and delay definitive management of the obstructive Müllerian anomalies that require complex reconstruction METHODS: Institutional Review Board exemption from all included institutions was obtained. A retrospective case series from 3 academic children's hospitals of 8 females under the age of 21 with symptomatic hematometrocolpos due to obstructive Müllerian anomalies drained by image-guided percutaneous transabdominal vaginal or uterine drainage with interventional radiology was reviewed and described.
RESULTS: Eight pubertal patients with obstructive Müllerian anomalies (6 patients with distal vaginal agenesis, 1 patient with an obstructed uterine horn, and 1 patient with a high obstructed hemi-vagina) and symptomatic hematometrocolpos are reported. All patients with distal vaginal agenesis had greater than 3 cm lower vaginal agenesis, which would usually require complex vaginoplasty and use of postoperative stents. Given their immaturity and inability to use stents or dilators postoperatively or medical complexity, they subsequently underwent ultrasound-guided drainage of hematometrocolpos with interventional radiology to relieve pain symptoms, followed by menstrual suppression. The patients with obstructed uterine horns had complex medical and surgical histories requiring perioperative planning; they also underwent ultrasound-guided drainage of hematometra as a temporizing measure to manage acute symptoms.
CONCLUSION: Patients presenting with symptomatic hematometrocolpos due to obstructive Müllerian anomalies might not be psychologically mature enough to undergo definitive complex reconstruction, which requires vaginal stent or dilator use postoperatively to prevent stenosis and other complications. Image-guided percutaneous drainage of symptomatic hematometrocolpos serves as a temporizing measure by offering pain relief until patients are ready to undergo surgical management and/or to allow time for complex surgical planning.

Citation: Childress KJ, et al. Management of Hematometra and Hematocolpos in Obstructive Mullerian Anomalies by Image-Guided Drainage with Interventional Radiology: A Multi-Institutional Case Series. Management of Hematometra and Hematocolpos in Obstructive Mullerian Anomalies by Image-Guided Drainage with Interventional Radiology: A Multi-Institutional Case Series. 2023; 36:372-382. doi: 10.1016/j.jpag.2023.02.006

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36878355/
