PMID: 36876365
Title: Features of gas exchange and metabolism of the brain during revascularization of the carotid arteries.

Abstract: The relevance of the stated topic of scientific research is determined by the fact that stroke is still the most important medical and social problem both in the world as a whole and in the Republic of Kazakhstan in particular due to high rates of morbidity, mortality, and disability. In addition, cerebrovascular diseases occupy one of the leading places in the structure of morbidity, disability and mortality, second only to coronary heart disease in Kazakhstan as well as around the world. The purpose of this research work is to study the features of gas exchange and brain metabolism during the revascularization of the carotid arteries. The basis of the methodological approach in this research work is a combination of methods of systematic analysis of the main features of gas exchange and brain metabolism in combination with a systematic study of the results obtained during the treatment of patients diagnosed with carotid artery stenosis at the Syzganov National Research Surgery Center in the period 2015-2020, divided into two main groups according to the applied principles of treatment. The results obtained in this research work indicate high efficiency of carotid endarterectomy and carotid stenting in finding ways to solve problems with cerebral circulation in patients suffering from carotid artery stenosis, as well as with the need for further use of these methods in clinical practice. The results obtained in the course of this scientific study, as well as the conclusions formulated on their basis, are of significant practical importance in terms of creating effective methods for treatment of patients recovering after a stroke, as well as for prevention of occurrence and development of stroke (Tab. 4, Ref. 20). Text in PDF www.elis.sk Keywords: carotid artery stenting, carotid endarterectomy, ischemic stroke, atherosclerosis, heart attack.

Citation: Baubekov A, et al. Features of gas exchange and metabolism of the brain during revascularization of the carotid arteries. Features of gas exchange and metabolism of the brain during revascularization of the carotid arteries. 2023; 124:356-362. doi: 10.4149/BLL_2023_054

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36876365/
