PMID: 36882174
Title: Robotic ureter reconstruction using the native ureter to treat long-segment ureteral stricture of the transplant kidney utilizing Indocyanine green: The first Korean experience.

Abstract: PURPOSE: Ureteral strictures are a common complication after kidney transplantation. Open reconstruction is preferred for long-segment ureteral strictures that cannot be resolved endoscopically; however, it is known to have the potential to fail. We report 2 successful cases of robotic reconstruction surgery of a transplant ureter using the native ureter with the aid of intraoperative Indocyanine green (ICG).
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Patients were placed in semi-lateral position. Using Da Vinci Xi, the transplant ureter was dissected, and the stricture site was identified. End-to-side anastomosis of the native ureter to the transplant ureter was performed. ICG was utilized to identify the course of the transplant ureter and confirm the vascularity of the native ureter.
RESULTS: Case 1: A 55-year-old female underwent renal transplantation at another hospital. She had recurrent febrile urinary tract infections (UTIs) and a ureteral stricture requiring percutaneous nephrostomy (PCN). The PCN and ureteral stent were removed successfully after surgery. The patient had only 1 febrile UTI episode after surgery. Case 2: A 56-year-old female underwent renal transplantation at another hospital. She had acute pyelonephritis 1-month post-transplantation, and a long-segment ureteral stricture was identified. She developed a UTI with anastomosis site leakage in the early postoperative period, which resolved with conservative treatment. The PCN and ureteral stent were removed 6 weeks after surgery.
CONCLUSIONS: Robotic surgery for managing long-segment ureteral stricture after kidney transplantation is safe and feasible. The use of ICG during surgery to identify the ureter course and its viability can improve the success.

Citation: Kim J, et al. Robotic ureter reconstruction using the native ureter to treat long-segment ureteral stricture of the transplant kidney utilizing Indocyanine green: The first Korean experience. Robotic ureter reconstruction using the native ureter to treat long-segment ureteral stricture of the transplant kidney utilizing Indocyanine green: The first Korean experience. 2023; 64:154-160. doi: 10.4111/icu.20220364

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36882174/
