PMID: 36884186
Title: Local Pentraxin-2 Deficit Is a Feature of Intestinal Fibrosis in Crohn's Disease.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Pentraxin-2 (PTX-2) is a homo-pentameric plasma protein showing evidence of antifibrotic activity in Phase 2 clinical trials in idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF). Whether PTX-2 plays a role in other fibrotic diseases, including intestinal fibrosis which commonly occurs in inflammatory bowel disease (IBD), remains unknown.
AIMS: This study aimed to qualitatively and quantitatively assess PTX-2 expression in fibrostenotic Crohn's disease (FCD) and determine whether expression is correlated with postsurgical restenosis.
METHODS: Immunohistochemistry was performed in histologic sections of small bowel resected from patients with fibrostenotic Crohn's disease (FCD), comparing strictured segments with adjacent surgical margins from the same patient. Ileal resections from patients without inflammatory bowel disease were examined as controls.
RESULTS: PTX-2 signal was analyzed in 18 patients with FCD and 15 patients without IBD and localized predominantly to submucosal vasculature, including arterial subendothelium and internal elastic lamina, and perivascular connective tissue. PTX-2 signal in the surgical margins from patients with FCD strictures (where tissue architecture was normal) was consistently lower than non-IBD samples. Fibrostenotic regions showed increased PTX-2 signal relative to surgical margins from the same patient in 14/15 paired samples. Submucosal/mural PTX-2 signal in fibrostenotic tissue was lower in patients who subsequently experienced re-stenosis (P = 0.015).
CONCLUSIONS: This exploratory study is the first analysis of PTX-2 within the intestine, and demonstrates that PTX-2 signal is reduced in the architecturally normal bowel of patients with FCD. Lower submucosal PTX-2 levels in patients with re-stenosis raises the possibility of a protective role of PTX-2 in intestinal fibrosis.

Citation: Levitte S, et al. Local Pentraxin-2 Deficit Is a Feature of Intestinal Fibrosis in Crohn's Disease. Local Pentraxin-2 Deficit Is a Feature of Intestinal Fibrosis in Crohn's Disease. 2023; 68:2975-2980. doi: 10.1007/s10620-023-07909-1

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36884186/
