PMID: 36880341
Title: Efficacy of endoscopic ultrasound and endoscopic resection for esophageal schwannoma.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Esophageal schwannoma (ES) is a rare submucosal tumor, and its complete and safe resection is a topic that deserves special attention.
AIM: This study aimed to investigate the clinical value of endoscopic ultrasound (EUS) in the diagnosis of ES and the clinical efficacy of endoscopic resection for ES.
METHODS: The clinical data, endoscopic characteristics, endoscopic treatment, postoperative complications, immunohistochemical results, and follow-up records of patients with ES admitted to the Tianjin Medical University General Hospital from January 2012 to January 2022 were retrospectively analyzed.
RESULTS: Under white-light endoscopy, 81.8% (9/11) of lesions were submucosal elevations, covering the normal esophageal epithelium. Two of the lesions with redness and erosive surface. Eight lesions (72.7%) appear on EUS originating from the muscularis propria were homogeneous or inhomogeneous hypoechoic signals. Two lesions were inhomogeneous hyperechoic originating from the submucosa or muscularis propria, respectively. One lesion was homogeneous hypoechoic originating from the submucosa. All lesions had no blood flow signals, cystic changes, or calcification, and were completely removed by submucosal tunnel endoscopic resection (STER) or endoscopic submucosal dissection (ESD). All patients did not experience serious adverse events as well as recurrence, metastasis, or cicatricial esophageal stenosis during the follow-up period.
CONCLUSION: ES is a rare submucosal lesion, which endoscopic characteristics are difficult to distinguish from other esophageal submucosal tumors. Endoscopic resection can provide a minimally invasive and alternative treatment for ES.

Citation: Jiao J, et al. Efficacy of endoscopic ultrasound and endoscopic resection for esophageal schwannoma. Efficacy of endoscopic ultrasound and endoscopic resection for esophageal schwannoma. 2023; 58:963-969. doi: 10.1080/00365521.2023.2185867

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36880341/
