PMID: 36895231
Title: Carotid endarterectomy for acute carotid thrombosis after carotid artery stenting with CASPER Rx® stent: A case report.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Acute carotid stent thrombosis (ACST) is a rare but devastating complication for carotid artery stenting (CAS). That requires early diagnosis and immediate treatment. Although administration of drugs or endovascular treatment is the most widely used approach for patients with ACST, there is no consensus on the standard treatment of this disease.
CASE DESCRIPTION: The present study reports on an 80-year-old female patient with the right internal carotid artery stenosis (ICS) that had been followed up by ultrasonography for 8 years. Although the optimal medical treatment was followed, the patient's right ICS worsened, and the patient was subsequently hospitalized for CAS. On the 12th day after CAS, left paralysis and dysarthria were observed. Head magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) showed acute obstruction of the stent and scattered cerebral infarction in the right cerebral hemisphere caused possibly by the discontinuation of temporary antiplatelet drug therapy as a means to prepare for embolectomy of the femoral artery. Stent removal and carotid endarterectomy (CEA) were selected as the appropriate treatment approach. CEA was performed with the precaution of stent removal and distal embolism, and complete recanalization was obtained. Postoperative head MRI showed no new findings of cerebral infarction, and the patients remained symptom-free after 6 months of postoperative follow-up.
CONCLUSION: Stent removal with CEA could be an appropriate curative option in some cases with ACST except in patients at high risk of CEA and in the chronic phase after CAS.

Citation: Segawa M, et al. Carotid endarterectomy for acute carotid thrombosis after carotid artery stenting with CASPER Rx® stent: A case report. Carotid endarterectomy for acute carotid thrombosis after carotid artery stenting with CASPER Rx® stent: A case report. 2023; 14:25. doi: 10.25259/SNI_1021_2022

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36895231/
