PMID: 36894444
Title: Thoracoscopic-Assisted Esophageal Replacement with a Detached Reversed Gastric Tube Pedicled Graft: Technical Report and Preliminary Outcomes.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Reflux is one of the most common late complications after gastric tube esophageal replacement in children. Herein, we report a novel approach for safely and selectively replacing the caustic strictured thoracic esophagus with a detached reversed gastric tube (d-RGT) pedicled graft with preservation of the cardia and implementation of thoracoscopy for optimizing the mediastinal pull-through process, and its outcomes.
METHODS: All children who presented to our facility with an intractable postcorrosive thoracic esophageal stricture through 2020 and 2021 were enrolled in this study. The primary operational steps were thoracoscopic esophagectomy, laparotomy for d-RGT fashioning, and cervicotomy for anastomosis after the thoracoscopically monitored mediastinal pull-through process.
RESULTS: Eleven children met the enrollment criteria, and their perioperative characteristics were assessed. The mean operative time was 201 min. The average duration of hospitalization was 5 days. There was no perioperative mortality. A transient cervical fistula was reported for one patient and a cervical side anastomotic stricture in another patient. A third patient developed kinking of the lower end of the d-RGT at the diaphragmatic crura level and this was treated satisfactorily by redoing the abdominal side surgery. After a mean follow-up of 8.5 months, none of the patients experienced reflux, dumping syndrome, or neoconduit redundancy.
CONCLUSIONS: The pattern of vascular supply of the d-RGT allowed for its total irrigation. Thoracoscopy assisted in preparing the mediastinal path for a safe and precise pull-through process. The lack of reflux seen on imaging and endoscopy in these children suggests that retaining the cardia may be beneficial.
LEVEL OF EVIDENCE: IV.

Citation: Seleim HM and Eskander AE. Thoracoscopic-Assisted Esophageal Replacement with a Detached Reversed Gastric Tube Pedicled Graft: Technical Report and Preliminary Outcomes. Thoracoscopic-Assisted Esophageal Replacement with a Detached Reversed Gastric Tube Pedicled Graft: Technical Report and Preliminary Outcomes. 2023; 58:1640-1645. doi: 10.1016/j.jpedsurg.2023.02.005

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36894444/
