PMID: 36909050
Title: Improvement of Anorgasmia and Anejaculation After Spinal Manipulation in an Older Man With Lumbar Stenosis: A Case Report.

Abstract: A 72-year-old man with cardiovascular disease, depression, and anxiety presented to a chiropractor with a six-year history of anorgasmia, anejaculation, and erectile dysfunction as well as chronic, episodic low back pain. He previously saw a neurologist, two urologists, and had extensive and expensive testing, including brain, cervical, thoracic, lumbar, and pelvic imaging and electrodiagnostic testing. The patient had a disc bulge at L5/S1 causing moderate spinal canal stenosis while other testing was relatively normal. He had previously tried discontinuing a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor, trialing psychological counseling, and administering penile injections, all without any improvement in sexual function. The chiropractor identified lower extremity weakness, sensory, reflex, and balance deficits and initiated a one-month trial of care, applying lumbar mobilizations and thrust manipulation at L1/2. The patient reported resolution of anorgasmia and anejaculation the first week, which was maintained over a total three months' follow-up. Low back pain also did not return. The current case report highlights the apparent success of lumbar spinal manipulation in improving anorgasmia and anejaculation in an older man. This response may be explained in that the sympathetic (T10-L2) and somatic (S2-4) innervation required for male orgasm and ejaculation is derived from the lumbosacral region. Further research is needed to determine if these findings are reproducible.

Citation: Trager RJ and Baumann A. Improvement of Anorgasmia and Anejaculation After Spinal Manipulation in an Older Man With Lumbar Stenosis: A Case Report. Improvement of Anorgasmia and Anejaculation After Spinal Manipulation in an Older Man With Lumbar Stenosis: A Case Report. 2023; 15:e34719. doi: 10.7759/cureus.34719

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36909050/
