PMID: 36908808
Title: Predictive factors for clinical outcomes in Filipino patients with watershed infarction: A single center study.

Abstract: BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: Watershed infarcts denote ischemic lesions involving the distal territories of two major arteries. For years, hypotheses on its pathophysiological mechanisms have been proposed. Yet, the cause is still widely debated. This study aimed to determine the mechanism of watershed strokes and compare their clinical outcomes to acute ischemic stroke from other causes and predict the factors affecting clinical outcomes in patients with watershed infarcts.
METHODS: This single-center, comparative, six-years retrospective cohort study included patients with a diagnosis of Acute Ischemic Stroke. Patients were classified under watershed group or acute ischemic stroke based on their neuroimaging findings. Stroke mechanisms were determined between groups as well as the factors associated with clinical outcomes in watershed strokes.
RESULTS: Among the 424 patients included in the study, large artery atherosclerosis was seen in greater frequency in patients with watershed infarcts regardless of the type (EWIs: n = 68, 73% vs IWIs: n = 89, 75%). No differences observed in the clinical outcomes between groups. Multiple variable analysis showed that age, female sex, high NIHSS score and presence of underlying malignancy were associated with clinical outcomes.
CONCLUSION: Clinical outcomes between watershed infarcts and acute ischemic strokes were similar. Hemodynamic compromise in the setting of severe stenosis is the underlying mechanism for both types of watershed strokes thus, the goal of treatment is to maintain adequate perfusion. High baseline NIHSS score, increased age, female gender and underlying malignancy were all poor predictors of clinical outcomes in patients with watershed strokes.

Citation: Escasura MIC, et al. Predictive factors for clinical outcomes in Filipino patients with watershed infarction: A single center study. Predictive factors for clinical outcomes in Filipino patients with watershed infarction: A single center study. 2023; 31:100450. doi: 10.1016/j.ensci.2023.100450

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36908808/
