PMID: 36914994
Title: Effect of Butylphthalide Capsules on Smac and XIAP Expression in Rats after Ischemia Reperfusion.

Abstract: INTRODUCTION: Little is known about the protective effects of butylphthalide on cerebral ischemia-reperfusion injury. This study aims to investigate the impact on the second mitochondrial-derived activator of Caspases (Smac) and X-linked inhibitor of apoptosis protein (XIAP) expression in the ischemic semidark area using a rat model of carotid artery stenosis.
METHODS: Thirty Sprague-Dawley rats were randomly divided into the sham-operated group, carotid stenosis model controls, low-dose (20 mg/kg), medium-dose (40 mg/kg), and high-dose (80 mg/kg) butylphthalide groups. The neurological function was scored by the balance beam test (BBT). The morphological changes of brain tissue were detected by Hematoxylin-eosin (HE) staining, with apoptosis detected by Terminal Deoxynucleotidyl Transferase mediated dUTP Nick-End Labeling (TUNEL) staining. Smac and XIAP protein expression were detected by immunohistochemistry (IHC). The expressions of Smac and XIAP mRNA were detected by real-time quantitative polymerase chain reaction (RT-qPCR).
RESULTS: HE showed that neuronal loss, nuclear consolidation, and vacuolar degeneration were significantly reduced in the medium and high-dose butylphthalide groups compared with the model controls. The BBT scores and apoptotic index were significantly lower in the medium and high doses of butylphthalide compared with the model controls. RT-qPCR and IHC showed that Smac, XIAP mRNA and protein expressions in the ischemic hemispheric region were significantly reduced in low, medium, and high doses of butylphthalide compared with the model controls (P < 0.05), showing some concentration effect.
CONCLUSIONS: Butylphthalide can significantly reduce Smac and XIAP mRNA and protein expression, inhibit neuronal apoptosis induced by ischemia-reperfusion injury in rats with carotid stenosis, and exert neuroprotective effects.

Citation: Xiang R, et al. Effect of Butylphthalide Capsules on Smac and XIAP Expression in Rats after Ischemia Reperfusion. Effect of Butylphthalide Capsules on Smac and XIAP Expression in Rats after Ischemia Reperfusion. 2023; 283:1038-1046. doi: 10.1016/j.jss.2022.11.055

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36914994/
