PMID: 36919248
Title: Transurethral ventral inlay buccal mucosa graft urethroplasty: technique and intermediate outcomes.

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: To outline our step-by-step surgical technique for a transurethral ventral buccal mucosa graft inlay urethroplasty to treat fossa navicularis and distal urethral strictures.
METHODS: The transurethral ventral inlay urethroplasty is accomplished in four steps. First, after obtaining proper exposure the cicatrice is excised via a transurethral ventral urethrotomy until the lumen is at least 24fr. Second, double arm 6-0 polydioxanone suture is used to deliver the triangular buccal mucosal graft to the proximal extent of the urethrotomy and secured externally. Third, the graft is secured to the meatus with 5-0 polyglactin sutures and additional 6-0 double arm polydioxanone sutures are used to quilt the graft for spread fixation. Finally, a 16fr silicone catheter is placed. Patients are discharged the same day and return for void trial after one week. A retrospective, single institution review was conducted to include all patients who underwent this procedure with a minimum of 1 year follow-up. Patients were analyzed for recurrences, and pre- and post-operative urine flow rates, post void residuals, and patient questionnaires were also reviewed.
RESULTS: 44 patients met our inclusion criteria. Median surgical time was 120 minutes. At a mean follow up of 36 months (IQR 22-50) 95% of patients are patent without additional interventions. The 2 patients that did have stricture recurrence were found to have urethral stenosis that extended more proximally, and both were successfully treated with a dorsal onlay buccal urethroplasty. There were significant improvements in urine flow rate, post void residuals, international prostate symptom score and quality of life scores post operatively. There was no difference in post operative sexual function scores.
CONCLUSION: This minimally invasive transurethral ventral urethroplasty has excellent intermediate term outcomes in terms of traditional objective measures of urethroplasty success and patient reported outcomes.

Citation: Sterling J, et al. Transurethral ventral inlay buccal mucosa graft urethroplasty: technique and intermediate outcomes. Transurethral ventral inlay buccal mucosa graft urethroplasty: technique and intermediate outcomes. 2023; 132:109-111. doi: 10.1111/bju.16007

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36919248/
