PMID: 36915440
Title: Application of the intestine diversion tube with a double-balloon without ileostomy in low rectal cancer.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Ileostomy is often used in low rectal cancer to protect the anastomosis and reduce the incidence of anastomotic leakage. However, the closure of the stoma causes physical and psychological damage to patients. An intestine diversion tube with a double-balloon was designed to remove the need for ileostomy and a secondary surgery, and we sought to verify its effectiveness and safety.
METHODS: An intestine diversion tube with a double-balloon was designed, and the experiment was performed in 5 groups of experiment pigs by the same group of physicians. The tube was placed into the ileum through the cecum during surgery. All the animals were anatomized after being anesthetized on the 14th day postoperatively to check the anastomosis and abdominal cavity. The postoperative complications included anastomotic leakage, abdominal or pelvic infection, anastomotic stenosis, postoperative bleeding, intestinal obstruction, reoperation, electrolyte disorder, drainage tube blockage, and drainage tube fall off.
RESULTS: No serious postoperative complications occurred in the 5 animal groups. The average daily drainage tube volume was 188.6 mL, the average drainage tube removal time was 13.4 days, and the average first defecation time was 2.6 days. Postoperative drainage was smooth, and no anastomotic leakage, other complications, or animal deaths occurred.
CONCLUSIONS: The use of the intestine diversion tube with a double-balloon was feasible in animal experiments and was safe and effective. The procedure is simple, and suitable for popularization and application in the clinic.

Citation: Wang H, et al. Application of the intestine diversion tube with a double-balloon without ileostomy in low rectal cancer. Application of the intestine diversion tube with a double-balloon without ileostomy in low rectal cancer. 2023; 14:213-219. doi: 10.21037/jgo-22-1284

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36915440/
