PMID: 36911579
Title: The Effect of Intraabdominal Visceral and Subcutaneous Adipose Volume and Muscle Volume on Lumbar Vertebrae Degeneration.

Abstract: OBJECTIVES: This study aimed to investigate the effect of the volume of subcutaneous, visceral, and total adipose tissue, and paravertebral muscles in patients with lumbar vertebrae degeneration (LVD) through computerized tomography (CT) images.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: One forty-six patients with a complaint of lower back pain (LBP) between January 2019 and December 2021 were included in the study. CT scans of all patients were analyzed retrospectively for abdominal visceral, subcutaneous, and total fat volume, and also paraspinal muscle volume measurements and analysis of lumbar vertebrae degeneration (LVD) using designated software. In CT images, each intervertebral disc space was evaluated in terms of the presence of osteophytes, loss of disc height, sclerosis in the end plates, and spinal stenosis to investigate the presence of degeneration. Each level was scored according to the presence of findings, with 1 point for each finding. The total score at all levels (L1-S1) was calculated for each patient.
RESULTS: An association was observed between the loss of intervertebral disc height and the amount of visceral, subcutaneous, and total fat volume at all lumbar levels (p˂0.05). The amount of all fat volume measurements also showed association with osteophyte formation (p˂0.05). An association was found between sclerosis and the amount of all fat volume at all lumbar levels (p˂0.05). It was observed that spinal stenosis at the lumbar levels was not associated with the amount of fat (total, visceral, subcutaneous) at any level (p˃0.05). No association was found between the amount of adipose and muscle volumes and vertebral pathologies at any level (p˃0.05).
CONCLUSION: The abdominal visceral, subcutaneous, and total fat volumes are associated with lumbar vertebral degeneration and loss of disc height. Paraspinal muscle volume does not show an association with vertebral degenerative pathologies.

Citation: Kilinc RM and Can Fİ. The Effect of Intraabdominal Visceral and Subcutaneous Adipose Volume and Muscle Volume on Lumbar Vertebrae Degeneration. The Effect of Intraabdominal Visceral and Subcutaneous Adipose Volume and Muscle Volume on Lumbar Vertebrae Degeneration. 2023; 15:e35940. doi: 10.7759/cureus.35940

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36911579/
