PMID: 36911034
Title: Endoscopic interventional therapies for tracheoesophageal fistulas in children: A systematic review.

Abstract: METHODS: An electronic literature search was performed using the keywords "tracheoesophageal fistula," "endoscopic," and "children" in the four major medical databases (Ovid, Embase, PubMed, and Web of Science) right from inception to September 2022. All English language articles describing the endoscopic interventional therapies of TEF in children were reviewed. Two independent researchers screened eligible articles at the title and abstract level. Full texts of potentially relevant articles were then screened again, and reference lists were screened manually to identify additional studies. Relevant data were extracted and analyzed. A synthesis of the relevant data was presented in descriptive form because of the heterogeneity of the included articles. The Chi-Squared test was used with a significance level of 5% (P &lt; 0.05).
RESULTS: Among the 1,167 retrieved papers, a total of 46 studies describing 170 TEF patients with an age range of 0.3-175 months were included, including 11 cases of acquired tracheoesophageal fistula, 144 cases of recurrent tracheoesophageal fistula, and 15 cases of congenital tracheoesophageal fistula (H-type TEF). A total of 119 out of 170 fistulas were successfully blocked via endoscopic techniques with an overall success rate of 70.0%, while 48 fistulas failed to close by endoscopic interventions, following which the procedure was converted to open surgery. No obviously severe intraoperative/postoperative complications occurred during the follow-up period, but only a mild esophageal stricture was noticed in six patients and grade II tracheal stenosis in one patient. Two patients died from causes unrelated to endoscopic procedures, with a mortality rate of approximately 1.2%. A comparative assessment of different endoscopic interventional techniques for TEF that detected endotracheal stenting was performed in six patients and one fistula was successfully blocked (16.7%). De-epithelialization alone was performed in 65 patients and the fistula healed in 47 of them (72.3%), with the mean number of successful treatments required being 2.3 times. Chemical sealant injection was administered in 33 patients and success was achieved in 21 (63.6%). The average requirement for endoscopic procedures was 1.5 times. De-epithelialization, in combination with chemical sealant injection, was performed in 62 patients, achieving the highest success rate of 77.4% (48 patients). Other treatment methods were performed in four patients and successfully treatment outcomes were reported in two of them (50.0%). The mean number of successful treatments required was four times, and a treatment was converted to surgery in one patient (25.0%). An assessment of different TEF types showed that 9 out of 15 congenital TEFs, 7 out of 11 acquired TEFs, and 103 out of 144 recurrent TEFs were successfully occluded. A comparison of the success rate across multiple groups showed a significant difference with a score of P &lt; 0.05, while there was no significant difference in the success rate of different TEF-type groups (P &gt; 0.05).
CONCLUSION: Endoscopic intervention is currently a preferred treatment modality for children with TEF because of its less-invasive nature, less complications, and high success rate. Among all interventional techniques, de-epithelialization, in combination with chemical sealant, has a higher success rate than other techniques. However, due to the limited number of cases reported for implementing many kinds of techniques, an ideal endoscopic interventional technique has yet to be devised, often necessitating more treatment applications and close follow-up.

Citation: Ling Y, et al. Endoscopic interventional therapies for tracheoesophageal fistulas in children: A systematic review. Endoscopic interventional therapies for tracheoesophageal fistulas in children: A systematic review. 2023; 11:1121803. doi: 10.3389/fped.2023.1121803

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36911034/
