PMID: 36922243
Title: Therapeutic and prophylactic effects of radiation therapy in the management of recurrent granulation tissue induced tracheal stenosis: a review on the role of Endobronchial brachytherapy and external beam radiation therapy.

Abstract: PURPOSE: Granulation tissue-induced tracheal stenosis (mainly secondary to intubation or lung transplantation) is one of the most common etiologies of benign airway obstructions. Recurrence rates after standard treatment options (surgical resection and/or endobronchial interventions) can inadvertently worsen the stricture through the stimulation of more granulation tissue generation (via increased fibroblast activity and roliferation). Low-dose radiotherapy could be a promising tool to prevent granulation tissue formation after surgery and/or endobronchial interventions regarding its established role in the treatment of keloids or hypertrophic scars, two benign diseases with similar a pathophysiology to tracheal stenosis. This study reviews case reports and small series that used endobronchial brachytherapy (EBBT) or external beam radiotherapy (EBRT) for the management of refractory granulation tissue-induced tracheal stenosis after surgery and/or endobronchial interventions.
METHODS AND MATERIALS: Case reports and series (published up to October 2022) that reported outcomes of patients with recurrent granulation tissue-induced tracheal stenosis (after surgery and/or endobronchial interventions) treated by EBBT or EBRT (in definitive or prophylactic settings) were eligible.
RESULTS: Sixteen studies (EBBT: nine studies including 69 patients, EBRT: seven studies including 32 patients) were reviewed. The pooled success rate across all studies was 74% and 97% for EBBT and EBRT, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: Radiation therapy appears to be effective in the management of selected patients with recurrent/refractory tracheal stenosis. Response to this treatment is usually good, but further studies with a larger number of patients and long-term followup are necessary to determine the optimal technique, dose, and timing of radiation therapy, late complications, the durability of response, and criteria for patient selection.

Citation: Razmjoo S, et al. Therapeutic and prophylactic effects of radiation therapy in the management of recurrent granulation tissue induced tracheal stenosis: a review on the role of Endobronchial brachytherapy and external beam radiation therapy. Therapeutic and prophylactic effects of radiation therapy in the management of recurrent granulation tissue induced tracheal stenosis: a review on the role of Endobronchial brachytherapy and external beam radiation therapy. 2023; 22:389-399. doi: 10.1016/j.brachy.2023.01.004

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36922243/
