PMID: 36927939
Title: Stent-Graft Placement for Radiation-Induced Abdominal Aortic Stenosis after Renal Autotransplantation.

Abstract: Renovascular hypertension (RVH) is a common cause of secondary hypertension. However, there have been no reports on RVH due to radiation-induced abdominal aorta stenosis after renal autotransplantation. A 27-year-old woman with a history of neuroblastoma treated by radiation therapy and RVH treated with renal autotransplantation presented with hypertension and dyspnea. At age 19, she had experienced hypertensive heart failure due to RVH from radiation-induced left renal artery stenosis and had undergone renal autotransplantation involving the extraction of her left kidney. Her systolic blood pressure (BP) was well-controlled but had increased progressively. She was diagnosed with hypertensive heart failure and admitted to hospital. Although her dyspnea soon subsided after treatment, her BP remained high. Renal artery ultrasound revealed no obvious stenosis. The ankle brachial pressure index (ABI) showed a significant bilateral decrease to 0.71/0.71 (right/left) from 0.94/0.95 eight years before. Magnetic resonance angiography and aortic angiography revealed severe stenosis in the abdominal aorta, and the systolic pressure gradient of intra-aortic blood flow, distal and proximal to a stenotic lesion, was 58 mmHg. These arterial stenoses in the irradiated area were highly suggestive of radiation-induced vasculopathy. She finally underwent an endovascular VIABAHN VBX balloon-expandable stent-graft placement for this radiation-induced abdominal aorta stenosis, which resolved the pressure gradient. After the procedure, her ABI improved to 0.91/0.88 and her BP was well-controlled. This is the first case of successful stent-graft placement for RVH after renal autotransplantation due to radiation-induced abdominal aorta stenosis as a consequence of neuroblastoma.

Citation: Ono R, et al. Stent-Graft Placement for Radiation-Induced Abdominal Aortic Stenosis after Renal Autotransplantation. Stent-Graft Placement for Radiation-Induced Abdominal Aortic Stenosis after Renal Autotransplantation. 2023; 64:306-309. doi: 10.1536/ihj.22-311

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36927939/
