PMID: 36922036
Title: Deformation of Transcatheter Heart Valve Following Valve-in-Valve Transcatheter Aortic Valve Replacement: Implications for Hemodynamics.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Valve-in-valve (ViV) transcatheter aortic valve replacement (TAVR) may be associated with adverse hemodynamics, which might affect clinical outcomes.
OBJECTIVES: This study sought to evaluate the extent and predictors of transcatheter heart valve (THV) deformity in ViV TAVR and the relation to postprocedural hemodynamics.
METHODS: We examined 53 patients who underwent ViV TAVR in surgical heart valves with self-expanding Evolut prostheses. THV deformation was examined using cardiac computed tomography prospectively performed 30 days after ViV TAVR, and correlated with 30-day echocardiographic hemodynamic data.
RESULTS: Near complete expansion of the functional portion of the implanted ViV prostheses (ie, >90%) was observed in 16 (30.2%) patients. Factors related to greater expansion of the functional portion and consequently larger neosinus volume were absence of polymer surgical frame, higher implantation and use of balloon aortic valvuloplasty or bioprosthetic valve fracture during the procedure (all P < 0.05). Underexpansion of the functional portion, but not the valve inflow frame, was closely associated with mean gradient and effective orifice area at 30 days on echocardiography, with and without adjustment for the sizes of the THV and surgical heart valve.
CONCLUSIONS: Underexpansion of the functional portion of THV prostheses is common during ViV TAVR, occurs more frequently with deep implantation and the presence of a polymer surgical stent frame, and is associated with worse postprocedural hemodynamics. Procedural techniques, such as higher implantation and balloon postdilatation, may be used to help overcome problems with THV underexpansion and improve clinical outcomes.

Citation: Fukui M, et al. Deformation of Transcatheter Heart Valve Following Valve-in-Valve Transcatheter Aortic Valve Replacement: Implications for Hemodynamics. Deformation of Transcatheter Heart Valve Following Valve-in-Valve Transcatheter Aortic Valve Replacement: Implications for Hemodynamics. 2023; 16:515-526. doi: 10.1016/j.jcin.2023.01.017

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36922036/
