PMID: 36920512
Title: Is navigation beneficial for transforaminal endoscopic lumbar foraminotomy? A preliminary comparison study with fluoroscopic guidance.

Abstract: PURPOSE: The primary purpose of this study was to determine radiation exposure of the surgeon during transforaminal endoscopic lumbar foraminotomy (TELF). Secondary purpose of this study was to compare clinical and radiologic outcomes between TELF under C-arm fluoroscopic guidance (C-TELF) and O-arm navigation-guided TELF (O-TELF).
METHODS: The author reviewed patients' medical records who underwent TELF at our institute from June 2015 to November 2022. A total of 40 patients were included (18 patients with C-TELF and 22 with O-TELF). Basic demographic data were collected. Preoperative/postoperative visual analog scale (VAS) and Oswestry Disability Index (ODI) were recorded at the outpatient clinic. Radiologic features were compared on X-rays at each follow-up. The degree of foraminal expansion was measured/compared through MRI. In the C-TELF group, the amount of exposure was calculated with a dosimeter.
RESULTS: Average surgeon's effective dose in the C-TELF group was 0.036 mSv. In the case of the O-TELF group, there was no radiation exposure during operation. However, the operation time in the O-TELF group was about 37 min longer than that in the C-TELF group. There were significant improvements in VAS/ODI after operation in both groups. Complications were identified in three patients.
CONCLUSION: O-TELF showed similarly favorable clinical and radiologic outcomes to C-TELF in lumbar foraminal stenosis, including complication rate. Compared to C-TELF, O-TELF has an advantage of not wearing a lead apron since the operator is not exposed to radiation. However, the operation time was longer with O-TELF due to O-arm setting time. Because there are pros and cons, the choice of surgical method depends on the surgeon's preference.

Citation: Kim JH, et al. Is navigation beneficial for transforaminal endoscopic lumbar foraminotomy? A preliminary comparison study with fluoroscopic guidance. Is navigation beneficial for transforaminal endoscopic lumbar foraminotomy? A preliminary comparison study with fluoroscopic guidance. 2023; 32:2808-2818. doi: 10.1007/s00586-023-07624-5

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36920512/
