PMID: 36928905
Title: Lower Extremity Reconstruction with Anterolateral Thigh Free-Flap Anastomoses: A Computational Fluid Dynamic Analysis.

Abstract: BACKGROUND:  The anterolateral thigh free flap is an option for repairing soft tissue defects of the distal lower extremity. This flap uses the descending branch of the lateral circumflex femoral (LCF) artery as the flap vessel. The recipient vessel in these flaps is often the anterior tibial (AT), posterior tibial (PT), or peroneal (P) arteries. Computational fluid dynamic (CFD) evaluation of anastomoses between these vessels can optimize outcomes.
METHODS:  Thirty-eight CFD models were created to model end-to-side (ETS) and end-to-end (ETE) anastomoses for lower extremity reconstruction. Seven out of thirty-eight models represented ETS anastomoses between the LCF and AT arteries with varying anastomotic angles. Nine out of thirty-eight models represented 45-degree ETS anastomoses between varying diameters of the LCF and AT, PT, and P arteries. Nine out of thirty-eight models represented stenosis on the flap vessel and recipient vessel, pre- and post-bifurcation. Nine out of thirty-eight models represented ETE anastomoses, rather than ETS, with varying vessel diameters. Four out of thirty-eight models represented ETE anastomoses with varying regions and levels of stenosis.
RESULTS: Stasis of blood flow in ETS models increased as anastomotic angle increased in a logarithmic relationship (R 2 = 0.918). Flow was optimized overall as flap and recipient vessel diameters approached one another. In ETS models, flap vessel and postbifurcation recipient vessel stenosis were found to substantially increase stasis.
CONCLUSION:  Selection of flap and recipient vessels with similar diameters can optimize outcomes in microvascular anastomoses. In the context of lower extremity reconstruction with the ALT flap, the PT artery can be recommended as a first-line recipient vessel due to its similar vessel caliber to the LCF and relative ease of surgical access compared with the P artery. Avoidance of areas of stenosis is recommended to ensure laminar flow and reduce the operative difficulty associated with performing anastomoses on nonpliable arteries. Striving for increased acuity of anastomotic angles is recommended to optimize the flow in ETS microvascular anastomoses.

Citation: Jinka SKA, et al. Lower Extremity Reconstruction with Anterolateral Thigh Free-Flap Anastomoses: A Computational Fluid Dynamic Analysis. Lower Extremity Reconstruction with Anterolateral Thigh Free-Flap Anastomoses: A Computational Fluid Dynamic Analysis. 2024; 40:12-22. doi: 10.1055/a-2056-0629

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36928905/
