PMID: 36923618
Title: Successful perioperative management of simultaneous transcatheter aortic valve implantation and hip fracture surgery: a case report.

Abstract: A 90-year-old woman with severe aortic stenosis experienced hospital readmission for chronic heart failure exacerbations many times and was admitted to our hospital for undergoing transcatheter aortic valve implantation. Thereafter, she fell in the ward and fractured her femoral trochanter, requiring early hip fracture surgery. We proposed that we should perform simultaneous transcatheter aortic valve implantation and hip fracture surgery to cardiologist and orthopedist from anesthetic and perioperative management perspective. We considered that it was difficult to maintain cardiovascular function without cardiac intervention during hip fracture surgery and starting rehabilitation as early as possible was important. General anesthesia was induced without any complications, and the tracheal tube was removed after the successive surgeries. On postoperative day 1, bedside rehabilitation was started, and on postoperative day 3, she was transferred from the intensive care unit to the general ward. On postoperative day 32, she was transferred to another hospital. Anesthesiologist should play an important role for decision making in not only intraoperative but perioperative management for critical case, we should communicate with other departments. The successful perioperative management of simultaneous transcatheter aortic valve implantation and hip fracture surgery enabled to start rehabilitation early and prevented further patient hospitalization.

Citation: Yamane K, et al. Successful perioperative management of simultaneous transcatheter aortic valve implantation and hip fracture surgery: a case report. Successful perioperative management of simultaneous transcatheter aortic valve implantation and hip fracture surgery: a case report. 2023; 85:167-170. doi: 10.18999/nagjms.85.1.167

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36923618/
