PMID: 36932774
Title: Effect of preoperative functional exercise on cephalic vein diameter, anastomotic blood flow, and postoperative complications in patients with arteriovenous internal fistuloplasty.

Abstract: The purpose of this study was to investigate the effect of preoperative functional exercise on cephalic vein diameter, anastomotic blood flow, and postoperative complications in patients with arteriovenous internal fistuloplasty. A total of 140 patients who underwent arteriovenous fistuloplasty from March 2019 to October 2021 were randomly divided into two groups: intervention group (n=70) and control group (n=70). The control group was treated with routine nursing intervention, while the intervention group was treated with preoperative functional exercise and routine nursing intervention. There was no significant difference in the diameter of cephalic vein between the two groups two weeks before the operation (p=0.742). The diameter of cephalic vein in the intervention group was larger than that in the control group two weeks after the operation (p < 0.001), and the blood flow of anastomotic vein in the intervention group was higher than that in the control group two weeks after the operation (p < 0.001). There was no significant difference in the total prevalence of postoperative complications such as vascular stenosis, thrombosis, and swelling hand syndrome between the intervention group and the control group (P=0.546). The findings show that preoperative functional exercise may increase the diameter and blood flow in the vessels, and improve vascular conditions in patients with arteriovenous fistuloplasty, but may have no effect on postoperative complications.

Citation: Zhang J, et al. Effect of preoperative functional exercise on cephalic vein diameter, anastomotic blood flow, and postoperative complications in patients with arteriovenous internal fistuloplasty. Effect of preoperative functional exercise on cephalic vein diameter, anastomotic blood flow, and postoperative complications in patients with arteriovenous internal fistuloplasty. 2023; 73:653-655. doi: 10.47391/JPMA.6224

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36932774/
