PMID: 36939956
Title: Analysis of Fatigue Strength and Reliability of Lower Limb Arterial Stent at Different Vascular Stenosis Rates and Stent-to-Artery Ratios.

Abstract: In order to study the influence of different vascular stenosis rates and stent-to-artery ratios on the fatigue strength and reliability of lower limb arterial stents, numerical simulation was conducted for the fatigue strength of complete SE stents under pulsating loads using a finite element method. Then, fracture mechanics and conditional probability theory were adopted for mathematical modeling, whereby analyzing the crack growth rate and reliability with stents of different thickness (0.12, 0.15, and 0.18 mm) at different vascular stenosis rates (30, 50, and 70%) and stent-to-artery ratios (80, 85, and 90%). The study found: all three stents of different thickness failed to meet 10-year service life at three vascular stenosis rates; all three stents of different thickness met 10-year service life at three stent-to-artery ratios. With increased vascular stenosis rate, the elastic strain of stents was increased, while the fatigue strength was decreased; with increased stent-to-artery ratio, the elastic strain of the stent was increased, while the reliability of the stent was reduced. After the stent with an initial crack was implanted into the vessel, the crack length underwent non-linear growth with increased pulsating cyclic loads. When the pulsating load reached 3 × 108, the growth rate of the crack on the stent surface increased exponentially, leading to a rapid decrease in reliability. Vascular stenosis rate, stent release ratio, and support thickness have significant effects on crack length propagation rate and reliability. Determining the influence of vascular stenosis rate and stent-to-artery ratio on the fatigue strength and reliability of stents provides a valuable reference for evaluating the fracture failure rate and safety of stents.

Citation: Ma S, et al. Analysis of Fatigue Strength and Reliability of Lower Limb Arterial Stent at Different Vascular Stenosis Rates and Stent-to-Artery Ratios. Analysis of Fatigue Strength and Reliability of Lower Limb Arterial Stent at Different Vascular Stenosis Rates and Stent-to-Artery Ratios. 2023; 51:1136-1146. doi: 10.1007/s10439-023-03165-6

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36939956/
