PMID: 36930590
Title: Magnetic Response Combined with Bioactive Ion Therapy: A RONS-Scavenging Theranostic Nanoplatform for Thrombolysis and Renal Ischemia-Reperfusion Injury.

Abstract: Currently, the limited efficacy of antithrombotic treatments is attributed to the inadequacy of pure drugs and the low ability of drugs to target the thrombus site. More importantly, timely thrombolysis is essential to reduce the sequelae of cardiovascular disease, but ischemia-reperfusion injury (IRI) remains a major challenge that must be solved after blood flow recovery. Herein, a multifunctional therapeutic nanoparticle (NP) based on Fe<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub> and strontium ions encapsulated in mesoporous polydopamine was successfully constructed and then loaded with TNK-tPA (FeM@Sr-TNK NPs). The NPs (59.9 min) significantly prolonged the half-life of thrombolytic drugs, which was 3.04 times that of TNK (19.7 min), and they had good biological safety. The NPs were shown to pass through vascular models with different inner diameters, curvatures, and stenosis under magnetic targeting and to enable accurate diagnosis of thrombi by photoacoustic imaging. NPs combined with the magnetic hyperthermia technique were used to accelerate thrombolysis and quickly open blocked blood vessels. Then, renal IRI-induced functional metabolic disorder and tissue damage were evidently attenuated by scavenging toxic reactive oxygen and nitrogen species and through the protective effects of bioactive ion therapy, including reduced apoptosis, increased angiogenesis, and inhibited fibrosis. In brief, we constructed a multifunctional nanoplatform for integrating a "diagnosis-therapy-protection" approach to achieve comprehensive management from thrombus to renal IRI, promoting the advancement of related technologies.

Citation: Xu L, et al. Magnetic Response Combined with Bioactive Ion Therapy: A RONS-Scavenging Theranostic Nanoplatform for Thrombolysis and Renal Ischemia-Reperfusion Injury. Magnetic Response Combined with Bioactive Ion Therapy: A RONS-Scavenging Theranostic Nanoplatform for Thrombolysis and Renal Ischemia-Reperfusion Injury. 2023; 17:5695-5712. doi: 10.1021/acsnano.2c12091

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36930590/
