PMID: 36937926
Title: Modelling blood flow in patients with heart valve disease using deep learning: A computationally efficient method to expand diagnostic capabilities in clinical routine.

Abstract: INTRODUCTION: The computational modelling of blood flow is known to provide vital hemodynamic parameters for diagnosis and treatment-support for patients with valvular heart disease. However, most diagnosis/treatment-support solutions based on flow modelling proposed utilize time- and resource-intensive computational fluid dynamics (CFD) and are therefore difficult to implement into clinical practice. In contrast, deep learning (DL) algorithms provide results quickly with little need for computational power. Thus, modelling blood flow with DL instead of CFD may substantially enhances the usability of flow modelling-based diagnosis/treatment support in clinical routine. In this study, we propose a DL-based approach to compute pressure and wall-shear-stress (WSS) in the aorta and aortic valve of patients with aortic stenosis (AS).
METHODS: A total of 103 individual surface models of the aorta and aortic valve were constructed from computed tomography data of AS patients. Based on these surface models, a total of 267 patient-specific, steady-state CFD simulations of aortic flow under various flow rates were performed. Using this simulation data, an artificial neural network (ANN) was trained to compute spatially resolved pressure and WSS using a centerline-based representation. An unseen test subset of 23 cases was used to compare both methods.
RESULTS: ANN and CFD-based computations agreed well with a median relative difference between both methods of 6.0% for pressure and 4.9% for wall-shear-stress. Demonstrating the ability of DL to compute clinically relevant hemodynamic parameters for AS patients, this work presents a possible solution to facilitate the introduction of modelling-based treatment support into clinical practice.

Citation: Yevtushenko P, et al. Modelling blood flow in patients with heart valve disease using deep learning: A computationally efficient method to expand diagnostic capabilities in clinical routine. Modelling blood flow in patients with heart valve disease using deep learning: A computationally efficient method to expand diagnostic capabilities in clinical routine. 2023; 10:1136935. doi: 10.3389/fcvm.2023.1136935

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36937926/
