PMID: 36933414
Title: Axial shear rate: A hemorheological factor for erythrocyte aggregation under Womersley flow in an elastic vessel based on numerical simulation.

Abstract: Erythrocyte aggregation (EA) is a highly dynamic, vital phenomenon to interpreting human hemorheology, which would be helpful for the diagnosis and prediction of circulatory anomalies. Previous studies of EA on erythrocyte migration and the Fåhraeus Effect are based on the microvasculature. They have not considered the natural pulsatility of the blood flow or large vessels and mainly focused on shear rate along radial direction under steady flow to comprehend the dynamic properties of EA. To our knowledge, the rheological characteristics of non-Newtonian fluids under Womersley flow have not reflected the spatiotemporal behaviors of EA or the distribution of erythrocyte dynamics (ED). Hence, it needs to interpret the ED affected by temporal and spatial flow variation to understand the effect of EA under Womersley flow. Here, we demonstrated the numerically simulated ED to decipher EA's rheological role in axial shear rate under Womersley flow. In the present study, the temporal and spatial variations of the local EA were found to mainly depend on the axial shear rate under Womersley flow in an elastic vessel, while mean EA decreased with radial shear rate. The localized distribution of parabolic or M-shape clustered EA was found in a range of the axial shear rate profile (-15 to 15s-1) at low radial shear rates during a pulsatile cycle. However, the linear formation of rouleaux was realized without local clusters in a rigid wall where the axial shear rate is zero. In vivo, the axial shear rate is usually considered insignificant, especially in straight arteries, but it has a great impact on the disturbed blood flow due to the geometrical properties, such as bifurcations, stenosis, aneurysm, and the cyclic variation of pressure. Our findings regarding axial shear rate provide new insight into the local dynamic distribution of EA, which is a critical player in blood viscosity. These will provide a basis for the computer-aided diagnosis of hemodynamic-based cardiovascular diseases by decreasing the uncertainty in the pulsatile flow calculation.

Citation: Lee CA, et al. Axial shear rate: A hemorheological factor for erythrocyte aggregation under Womersley flow in an elastic vessel based on numerical simulation. Axial shear rate: A hemorheological factor for erythrocyte aggregation under Womersley flow in an elastic vessel based on numerical simulation. 2023; 157:106767. doi: 10.1016/j.compbiomed.2023.106767

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36933414/
