PMID: 36935468
Title: Effectiveness of sucralfate in preventing esophageal stricture in children after ingestion of caustic agents.

Abstract: Ingestion of caustic agents by children is a serious health issue that can affect the patient for the rest of his life. The role of sucralfate in preventing stricture caused by caustic agents is controversial, and limited studies have been conducted in this field. We aimed to investigate the effect of sucralfate on preventing esophageal stricture in children. Sixty children with mean age of 36.69 ± 20.50 months and grade II B esophageal burns due to ingestion of caustic agents were enrolled in the study. In the intervention group, in addition to the usual treatment, sucralfate was administered orally at a dose of 80 mg/kg every 2 h for 3 days. For the control group, only the usual treatment was prescribed. Stricture development was compared between groups based on endoscopic and radiologic findings. Of the 60 patients enrolled in the study, 53 were examined. The incidence of esophageal stricture in the intervention group was significantly lower than in the control group (37% versus 67%, P-value = 0.042). In addition, the odds of esophageal stricture after sucralfate intervention was significantly reduced after adjustment for potential confounders (OR = 0.198, P-value = 0.031).  Conclusions: The results of this study showed that sucralfate may reduce the development of esophageal stricture in children when used to manage IIB esophageal burns due to ingestion of caustic agents. What is Known: • Ingestion of caustic agents by children is a serious health issue that can affect the patient for the rest of his life. • The role of sucralfate in preventing stricture caused by caustic agents is controversial and limited studies have been conducted in this field. What is New: • It seems that sucralfate significantly reduces the incidence of esophageal stricture following the ingestion of caustic agents in children compared to the control group. • We believe that the prognosis may be improved and the risk of stricture formation may be reduced with high doses of sucralfate therapy in grade IIB esophageal injury.

Citation: Akhijahani RF, et al. Effectiveness of sucralfate in preventing esophageal stricture in children after ingestion of caustic agents. Effectiveness of sucralfate in preventing esophageal stricture in children after ingestion of caustic agents. 2023; 182:2591-2596. doi: 10.1007/s00431-023-04924-2

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36935468/
