PMID: 36937450
Title: Transarterial arterial sclerosing embolization for the treatment of propranolol-resistant subglottic hemangioma: Feasibility and effificacy.

Abstract: PURPOSE: To assess the effectiveness and safety of transcatheter arterial sclerosing embolization (TASE) for the treatment of subglottic hemangiomas that did not respond appreciably to propranolol.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: This study was a retrospective analysis. Of the 101 patients with subglottic hemangiomas admitted to our center, 10 (4 male and 6 female) patients were included in this study. All these patients underwent arterial embolization using Pingyangmycin and polyvinyl alcohol particles (300-500 μm). All patients were examined 1 month after the last treatment and monthly thereafter.
RESULTS: TASE treatment was technically successful in all patients. Ten lesions were located in the subglottic region. The blood supply included the superior thyroid artery, brachiocephalic trunk, facial artery, and ascending pharyngeal arteries. The median maximal diameter of the hemangiomas significantly decreased from 8.5 mm before treatment to 2 mm after TASE (P <.05). The degree of laryngeal obstruction improved in all patients. No serious complications were noted. One patient developed fever postoperatively, and three patients had a mild cough.
CONCLUSIONS: For even subglottic hemangiomas with suboptimal efficacy of propranolol, TASE significantly reduced the size of hemangiomas with minimal adverse effects. It had a positive effect on the improvement of airway stenosis caused by subglottic hemangioma with poor effect of oral propranolol.

Citation: Liu Z, et al. Transarterial arterial sclerosing embolization for the treatment of propranolol-resistant subglottic hemangioma: Feasibility and effificacy. Transarterial arterial sclerosing embolization for the treatment of propranolol-resistant subglottic hemangioma: Feasibility and effificacy. 2023; 13:1062510. doi: 10.3389/fonc.2023.1062510

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36937450/
