PMID: 36939535
Title: High Tracheal Resection With Intralaryngeal Extension as an Alternative to Cricotracheal Resection for Treatment of Subglottic Stenosis.

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: Some patients with subglottic stenosis (SGS) require open airway reconstruction, which traditionally involves resection of the anterior cricoid cartilage. As an alternative, we present a novel technique: cricoid-sparing high tracheal resection with excision of subglottic stenotic tissue from below. A novel set of posterior circumferential cricoid sutures is used to reline the exposed cricoid plate.
STUDY DESIGN: Retrospective chart review.
SETTING: Single tertiary care center.
METHODS: The surgical technique is described and illustrated. A chart review was performed for all patients who underwent surgery between January 1, 2016, and June 30, 2021.
RESULTS: Fourteen patients (100% female) underwent this airway resection and reconstruction surgery during the study time period. After a mean follow-up of 12 months, no patients required tracheostomy. Twelve of 14 patients (86%) had durable airways. Two patients (14%) have required repeated endoscopic procedures for recurrent stenosis and are considered treatment failures. None exhibited postoperative dysfunction to suggest posterior cricoarytenoid muscle injury. Thirteen patients (93%) had a postoperative normal voice or only transient dysphonia. One patient had permanent unilateral vocal fold paralysis.
CONCLUSION: Cricoid-sparing high tracheal resection is a safe and effective alternative to cricotracheal resection, especially for predominantly posterior SGS. The cricoid cartilage and cricothyroid muscles are left undisturbed, potentially decreasing the risk of postoperative dysphonia, namely lowered fundamental frequency. This is especially meaningful in the setting of a predominantly female patient population.

Citation: Liang KY, et al. High Tracheal Resection With Intralaryngeal Extension as an Alternative to Cricotracheal Resection for Treatment of Subglottic Stenosis. High Tracheal Resection With Intralaryngeal Extension as an Alternative to Cricotracheal Resection for Treatment of Subglottic Stenosis. 2023; 168:1139-1145. doi: 10.1002/ohn.180

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36939535/
