PMID: 36946404
Title: [Study of the effect of Unifuzol on cognitive impairment and damage to the hippocampus and cerebral cortex during course administration to rats with bilateral stenosis of the common carotid arteries, causing chronic circulatory failure].

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: To study the effect of Unifuzol (L-arginine sodium succinate) on cognitive impairment, cerebral blood flow, and damage to the tissues of the hippocampus and cerebral cortex during a 10-day course of administration to rats with chronic cerebral ischemia (CCI) caused by bilateral stenosis of the common carotid arteries (CCA).
MATERIAL AND METHODS: The study was conducted on male rats with CCI caused by bilateral stenosis of the CCA by 60%. 40 days after surgery, rats received Unifusol (21, 42 and 84 ml/kg), nicergoline (10 mg/kg), citicoline (500 mg/kg) or placebo (0.9% NaCl) for 10 days. Next, cognitive impairments were assessed in the Morris Water Maze and the New Object Recognition (NOR) test, as well as the level of motor and exploratory activity in the Open Field test. The level of cerebral blood flow was determined immediately after the CCA stenosis and at the end of the experiment. Animals were euthanized in a CO<sub>2</sub> incubator, after which the brain was removed and subjected to morphometric analysis.
RESULTS: In animals that were modeled with CCA stenosis, pronounced behavioral and cognitive impairments occurred as a result of a decrease in blood flow in the vessels of the brain and subsequent changes in the tissues of the hippocampus and the cerebral cortex. Intravenous course administration of Unifuzol at doses of 42 and 84 ml/kg to animals with CCI was comparable in efficiency to nicergoline and citicoline, which was expressed in greater preservation of the cognitive abilities of animals in the Morris Water Maze and NOR tests. In the Open Field test, animals injected with Unifusol at doses of 42 and 84 ml/kg performed more acts of motor and exploratory activity than animals from the placebo group, and had a higher level of cerebral blood flow (compared to animals that were injected with citicoline). Based on the results of a morphological study, it was found that the most significant neuroprotective effect was provided by nicergoline and Unifuzol (at doses of 42 and 84 ml/kg).
CONCLUSION: Unifuzol at a course of administration at doses of 42 and 84 ml/kg, comparable to the reference drugs nicergoline and citicoline, reduces the severity of psychoneurological deficit in animals with CCI, comparable to them improves the microcirculation of brain tissues, preventing damage to brain tissues.

Citation: Kurkin DV, et al. [Study of the effect of Unifuzol on cognitive impairment and damage to the hippocampus and cerebral cortex during course administration to rats with bilateral stenosis of the common carotid arteries, causing chronic circulatory failure]. [Study of the effect of Unifuzol on cognitive impairment and damage to the hippocampus and cerebral cortex during course administration to rats with bilateral stenosis of the common carotid arteries, causing chronic circulatory failure]. 2023; 123:94-103. doi: 10.17116/jnevro202312303194

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36946404/
