PMID: 36942178
Title: Successful Resuscitation and Management of Cardiac Arrest in Pregnancy Due to Undiagnosed Severe Mitral Stenosis: A Case Report.

Abstract: Maternal collapse is a rare, potentially fatal event with associated feto-maternal morbidity and mortality. We report a case of severe mitral stenosis without any prior symptoms, that presented as acute cardiac decompensation leading to maternal collapse and cardiac arrest. A 35-year-old female in her 28th week of gestation presented to the emergency room with a four-hour history of per-vaginal discharge and leaking of amniotic fluid. Her past history, physical examination, and laboratory workup were unremarkable. An initial diagnosis of pre-term premature rupture of membranes (PPROM) was made and she was managed conservatively. Within four hours of the presentation, she developed shortness of breath, which gradually worsened, and the anesthesia team was requested to assess the patient. Upon arrival, the patient was in severe respiratory distress. She collapsed soon after and started frothing copiously from the mouth. Pulse was absent and cardio-pulmonary resuscitation (CPR) commenced. Endotracheal intubation was performed and the obstetric team was asked to prepare for a perimortem cesarean section, which was completed four minutes after the commencement of CPR and the baby was delivered alive and well with an APGAR score of 7 and 8 at one minute and five minutes of birth, respectively, and birth weight of 1.1 kg. CPR continued for 16 minutes after which a return of spontaneous circulation was achieved. Due to the unavailability of an ICU bed, the patient was shifted to OR where she stayed for the next five hours for further resuscitation. After a two-month-long ICU course, the patient was discharged in stable condition; her baby was discharged after a month of hospital stay. The expertise of anesthesiologists as resuscitators and peri-operative physicians helped in successful resuscitation, saving not just one but two lives in the process.

Citation: Shafiq F and Sheikh H. Successful Resuscitation and Management of Cardiac Arrest in Pregnancy Due to Undiagnosed Severe Mitral Stenosis: A Case Report. Successful Resuscitation and Management of Cardiac Arrest in Pregnancy Due to Undiagnosed Severe Mitral Stenosis: A Case Report. 2023; 15:e35036. doi: 10.7759/cureus.35036

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36942178/
