PMID: 36948167
Title: Characteristics of Gastric Stasis due to Deformation after Endoscopic Submucosal Dissection in the Lower Part of the Stomach.

Abstract: INTRODUCTION: Gastric stasis due to deformation occurs after endoscopic submucosal dissection in the lower part of the stomach. Endoscopic balloon dilation can improve gastric stasis due to stenosis; however, endoscopic balloon dilation cannot improve gastric stasis due to deformation. Furthermore, the characteristics of gastric stasis due to deformation are unknown. This study aimed to evaluate the characteristics of gastric stasis due to deformation after endoscopic submucosal dissection in the lower part of the stomach, focusing on the differences between stenosis and deformation.
METHODS: We retrospectively reviewed 41 patients with gastric stasis after endoscopic submucosal dissection in the lower part of the stomach. We evaluated the characteristics of cases with gastric stasis due to deformation, such as the risk factors of deformation and the rate of deformation in each group with risk factors.
RESULTS: Deformation was observed in 12% (5/41) of the patients with gastric stasis. All cases of deformation had a circumferential extent of the mucosal defect greater than 3/4. The number of cases with pyloric dissection was significantly lower in the deformation group than in the non-deformation group (0% vs. 72%; p = 0.004). The deformation group also had a significantly higher number of cases with angular dissection than the non-deformation group (100% vs. 17%; p < 0.001). Moreover, the deformation cases had a significantly larger specimen diameter (p < 0.001). Deformation was observed only in cases with angular and non-pyloric dissections. Deformation was not observed in cases with angular and pyloric dissections.
CONCLUSIONS: All cases of gastric stasis due to deformation had a circumferential extent of the mucosal defect greater than 3/4. Deformation was also likely to occur in cases with a larger dissection that exceeded the angular region without pyloric dissection.

Citation: Takayama H, et al. Characteristics of Gastric Stasis due to Deformation after Endoscopic Submucosal Dissection in the Lower Part of the Stomach. Characteristics of Gastric Stasis due to Deformation after Endoscopic Submucosal Dissection in the Lower Part of the Stomach. 2023; 104:320-327. doi: 10.1159/000529316

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36948167/
