PMID: 36949435
Title: Isobar hybrid dynamic stabilization with posterolateral fusion in mild and moderate lumbar degenerative disease.

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: The aim of this study was to investigate the feasibility of using the Isobar TTL system and posterolateral fusion in a two-segment hybrid fixation approach, combined with spinal decompression, for treating mild and moderate lumbar degenerative disease. Specifically, we sought to evaluate the effectiveness of this approach for managing two-segment mild and moderate lumbar degenerative disease, and to determine whether it could provide a safe and reliable alternative to traditional surgical methods.
METHODS: This retrospective study included 45 consecutive patients with two-level lumbar disc herniation or spinal stenosis, 24 of whom underwent the TTL system and posterolateral fusion combined (TTL group), and 21 of whom underwent posterolateral fusion alone (Rigid group). The surgical segment, admission diagnosis, operation time, and intraoperative bleeding were recorded separately for the two groups of patients. Imaging studies included pre- and postoperative radiography, magnetic resonance imaging, and computed tomography. The clinical outcomes were measured by Oswestry Disability Index (ODI) scores, and a visual analogue scale (VAS) for back and leg pain.
RESULTS: All patients completed the surgery successfully with a mean follow-up of 56.09 months. The operative time and intraoperative bleeding were lower in the TTL group than in the Rigid group (p < 0.05). All patients showed significant improvements in clinical outcomes, including VAS for back and leg pain, and ODI scores (p < 0.05). ODI scores, the TTL group was better than the Rigid group at 1 year after surgery and at the final follow-up (p < 0.05). Postoperative surgical segment range of motion (ROM) decreased in both groups (p < 0.05). The postoperative ROM of the upper adjacent segment increased in both groups and was significantly higher in both groups at the last follow-up compared with the preoperative period (p < 0.05), and the superior adjacent segment rom of the TTL group was lower than the Rigid group (p < 0.05). The modified Pfrrmann classification of the superior adjacent segment was significantly increased in both groups at the last follow-up (p < 0.05). And in the TTL group, ROM, DH, and modified Pfrrmann grading of dynamic segment outperformed fusion segments. According to the UCLA classification, the incidence of adjacent segment degeneration (ASD) was 4.2% in the TTL group and 23.8% in the Rigid group, and the incidence of ASD was lower in the TTL group than in the Rigid group (P < 0.05).
CONCLUSION: The Isobar TTL System was utilized in two-level lumbar hybrid surgery, resulting in no evident indications of lumbar instability being detected on X-rays captured at a minimum of 4 years after the operation, while retaining partial range of motion of the surgical segment. The general clinical efficacy is equivalent to titanium rod fusion surgery, presenting an alternative treatment for individuals with mild and moderate lumbar degenerative disease.

Citation: Guan J, et al. Isobar hybrid dynamic stabilization with posterolateral fusion in mild and moderate lumbar degenerative disease. Isobar hybrid dynamic stabilization with posterolateral fusion in mild and moderate lumbar degenerative disease. 2023; 24:217. doi: 10.1186/s12891-023-06329-6

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36949435/
