PMID: 36947442
Title: Sustained Lumen Area by Paclitaxel-Coated Balloon Following Rotational Atherectomy for Napkin-Ring Left Main Trunk Ostial Lesion.

Abstract: Late lumen enlargement after percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) with drug-coated balloon has contributed to good clinical results. However, late lumen enlargement with drug-coated balloon following rotational atherectomy has not been well reported. This report describes a case of calcified napkin-ring ostial lesion at the left main trunk that showed a sustained lumen area after PCI with drug-coated balloon following rotational atherectomy. An 85-year-old female patient was admitted to the hospital with dyspnea. Echocardiography showed hypokinesis in the anteroseptal and inferior walls. Electrocardiograph-gated cardiac computed tomography showed a calcified ostial lesion in the left main trunk. Invasive angiography of the coronary artery showed severe stenosis in the left main trunk ostium. Percutaneous coronary intervention was performed with a drug-coated balloon after rotational atherectomy. The minimal lumen area measured by intravascular ultrasound grew mildly from 4.09 to 4.17 mm2 immediately after PCI. Follow-up angiography and intravascular ultrasound performed after 6 months showed that the minimal lumen area in the left main trunk ostium was further enlarged from 4.17 to 4.69 mm2. The presence of sustained lumen area after PCI with drug-coated balloon following rotational atherectomy for a napkin-ring left main trunk ostial lesion was confirmed. This case demonstrates sustained lumen area after drug-coated balloon following rotational atherectomy in the left main trunk ostium, improving the patient's chest symptom. Hence, drug-coated balloon after rotational atherectomy may be an option for complex stent sites, such as the left main trunk ostium in geriatric patients and sites with highly calcified lesions.

Citation: Osawa T, et al. Sustained Lumen Area by Paclitaxel-Coated Balloon Following Rotational Atherectomy for Napkin-Ring Left Main Trunk Ostial Lesion. Sustained Lumen Area by Paclitaxel-Coated Balloon Following Rotational Atherectomy for Napkin-Ring Left Main Trunk Ostial Lesion. 2023; 50:(unknown pages). doi: 10.14503/THIJ-22-7883

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36947442/
