PMID: 36958707
Title: Mast cells participate in smooth muscle cell reprogramming and atherosclerotic plaque calcification.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Calcification, a key feature of advanced human atherosclerosis, is positively associated with vascular disease burden and adverse events. We showed that macrocalcification can be a stabilizing factor for carotid plaque molecular biology, due to inverse association with immune processes. Mast cells (MCs) are important contributors to plaque instability, but their relationship with macrocalcification is unexplored. With a hypothesis that MC activation negatively associates with carotid plaque macrocalcification, we aimed to investigate the link between MCs and carotid plaque vulnerability, and study MC role in plaque calcification via smooth muscle cells (SMCs).
METHODS: Pre-operative computed tomography angiographies of patients (n = 40) undergoing surgery for carotid stenosis were used to characterize plaque morphology. Plaque microarrays (n = 40 and n = 126) were used for bioinformatic deconvolution of immune cell populations. Tissue microarrays (n = 103) were used to histologically validate the contribution of activated and resting MCs in plaques.
RESULTS: Activated MCs and their typical markers were negatively correlated with macrocalcification. The ratio of activated vs. resting MCs was increased in low-calcified plaques from symptomatic patients. There was no modulating effect of medication on MC ratios. In vitro experiments showed that SMC calcification attenuated MC activation, while both active and resting MCs stimulated SMC calcification and induced dedifferentiation towards a pro-inflammatory-, osteochondrocyte-like phenotype, without modulating their migro-proliferative function.
CONCLUSIONS: Integrative analyses from human plaques showed that MC activation is inversely associated with macrocalcification and positively with parameters of plaque vulnerability. Mechanistically, MCs induce SMC osteogenic reprograming, while matrix calcification in turn attenuates MC activation, offering new therapeutic avenues for exploration.

Citation: Skenteris NT, et al. Mast cells participate in smooth muscle cell reprogramming and atherosclerotic plaque calcification. Mast cells participate in smooth muscle cell reprogramming and atherosclerotic plaque calcification. 2023; 150:107167. doi: 10.1016/j.vph.2023.107167

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36958707/
