PMID: 36958145
Title: Management of an intraoperative tracheal injury during a Mckeown oesophagectomy: A case report.

Abstract: INTRODUCTION AND IMPORTANCE: Tracheobronchial injuries are uncommon complications during oesophagectomies adopting blind dissection or thoracoscopy. Neoadjuvant chemo-radiotherapy is considered a risk factor while double-lumen endotracheal tube insertion and direct surgical damage are other related causalities.
PRESENTATION OF CASE: A 65-year-old male underwent a Mckeown oesophagectomy with a right thoracotomy for a mid-oesophageal carcinoma. During the latter stages of cervical dissection and oesophageal mobilization, a 2-cm tracheal injury was noted in the posterior membranous trachea. It was repaired with 2.0 prolene with interrupted sutures and local transposition muscle flap using prevertebral muscles. Post-operatively, he was ventilated in view of prolonged surgery and the probability of airway oedema with the double-lumen ET tube. A transient bubbling of the intercostal drain was managed conservatively and attributed to a secondary pneumothorax. He was extubated and made an uncomplicated recovery. At 2 years, he did not have any tracheal stenosis.
CLINICAL DISCUSSION: If diagnosed intraoperatively and for sizes >2 cm, tracheobronchial injuries should be repaired. Various techniques exist with differing evidence. Repair with non-absorbable sutures, use of synthetic grafts, innate tissue such as intercostal and pectoral muscle flaps, and pericardial and pleural flaps are all being used. Early extubation might be useful provided other criteria for extubation are met.
CONCLUSION: Tracheobronchial injuries during oesophagectomies present a surplus challenge to both the anaesthetist and the surgeon. Collective decision-making tailored to the patient and close monitoring during the postoperative phase would result in good outcomes.

Citation: Munasinghe BM and Karunatileke CT. Management of an intraoperative tracheal injury during a Mckeown oesophagectomy: A case report. Management of an intraoperative tracheal injury during a Mckeown oesophagectomy: A case report. 2023; 105:108010. doi: 10.1016/j.ijscr.2023.108010

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36958145/
