PMID: 36959409
Title: QCard-NM: Developing a semiautomatic segmentation method for quantitative analysis of the right ventricle in non-gated myocardial perfusion SPECT imaging.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Recent studies have shown that the right ventricular (RV) quantitative analysis in myocardial perfusion imaging (MPI) SPECT can be beneficial in the diagnosis of many cardiopulmonary diseases. This study proposes a new algorithm for right ventricular 3D segmentation and quantification.
METHODS: The proposed Quantitative Cardiac analysis in Nuclear Medicine imaging (QCard-NM) algorithm provides RV myocardial surface estimation and creates myocardial contour using an iterative 3D model fitting method. The founded contour is then used for quantitative RV analysis. The proposed method was assessed using various patient datasets and digital phantoms. First, the physician's manually drawn contours were compared to the QCard-NM RV segmentation using the Dice similarity coefficient (DSC). Second, using repeated MPI scans, the QCard-NM's repeatability was evaluated and compared with the QPS (quantitative perfusion SPECT) algorithm. Third, the bias of the calculated RV cavity volume was analyzed using 31 digital phantoms using the QCard-NM and QPS algorithms. Fourth, the ability of QCard-NM analysis to diagnose coronary artery diseases was assessed in 60 patients referred for both MPI and coronary angiography.
RESULTS: The average DSC value was 0.83 in the first dataset. In the second dataset, the coefficient of repeatability of the calculated RV volume between two repeated scans was 13.57 and 43.41 ml for the QCard-NM and QPS, respectively. In the phantom study, the mean absolute percentage errors for the calculated cavity volume were 22.6% and 42.2% for the QCard-NM and QPS, respectively. RV quantitative analysis using QCard-NM in detecting patients with severe left coronary system stenosis and/or three-vessel diseases achieved a fair performance with the area under the ROC curve of 0.77.
CONCLUSION: A novel model-based iterative method for RV segmentation task in non-gated MPI SPECT is proposed. The precision, accuracy, and consistency of the proposed method are demonstrated by various validation techniques. We believe this preliminary study could lead to developing a framework for improving the diagnosis of cardiopulmonary diseases using RV quantitative analysis in MPI SPECT.

Citation: Entezarmahdi SM, et al. QCard-NM: Developing a semiautomatic segmentation method for quantitative analysis of the right ventricle in non-gated myocardial perfusion SPECT imaging. QCard-NM: Developing a semiautomatic segmentation method for quantitative analysis of the right ventricle in non-gated myocardial perfusion SPECT imaging. 2023; 10:21. doi: 10.1186/s40658-023-00539-6

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36959409/
