PMID: 36959776
Title: Administration of a new nano delivery system coated with Tirofiban to prevent early thrombosis of vein graft.

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: To verify the administration of a new nano delivery system coated with Tirofiban on preventing early thrombosis in vein graft.
METHODS: Forty New Zealand white rabbits were randomly divided into five groups with eight rabbits in each group. The rabbits of all groups underwent jugular vein transplantation, except group I with only neck opening and closing operation. Vein grafts of group II were preprocessed by intravenous injection of normal saline; group III were preprocessed by tirofiban alone; group IV were preprocessed by unloaded nanoparticles of PLGA-PEG; group V were preprocessed by PLGA-PEG coated with tirofiban. Coagulation and platelet function of peripheral and vein graft blood were detected at 1, 2, 4, 12 h and 1, 3, 7, 10, 14 days after operation. Patency rate of vein graft and blood flow index were measured by vascular ultrasound at third, seventh, 10th, and 14th days after operation; two rabbits in each group were randomly sacrificed at the corresponding time of detection. Pathological differences of vein grafts were observed by HE stainin.
RESULTS: The patency rate of vein grafts in group V was significantly higher than that in group II to IV. The platelet and platelet aggregation rate in group V were inhibited in vein graft blood significantly. The post-operative PT and APTT in vein graft blood in group V were increased obviously while the FBG, D-dimer and FDP were significantly inhibited. Except group I, the lumen loss rate of vein grafts in group V was significantly lower than that in other groups, and vein graft blood in group V had a significant lower expression of platelet P-selectin and GP IIb/IIIa receptor than that in other groups.
CONCLUSION: This study proves that PEG-PLGA coated with tirofiban can effectively prevent early vein graft stenosis from thrombosis by inhibition of platelet function, coagulation function.

Citation: Gao M, et al. Administration of a new nano delivery system coated with Tirofiban to prevent early thrombosis of vein graft. Administration of a new nano delivery system coated with Tirofiban to prevent early thrombosis of vein graft. 2024; 39:1080-1087. doi: 10.1177/02676591231163014

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36959776/
