PMID: 36966561
Title: Differential association between apolipoprotein B and LDL cholesterol and cerebral atherosclerosis according to pre-stroke statin use.

Abstract: BACKGROUND AND AIMS: To reduce cardiovascular risk, low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) is the primary target of statin treatment, while apolipoprotein B (ApoB) is secondary. We investigated the association between atherosclerotic stenosis and LDL-C or ApoB levels and whether a difference in association exists according to pre-admission statin use in ischemic stroke patients.
METHODS: This retrospective cross-sectional study included consecutive patients with acute ischemic stroke or transient ischemic attack who underwent lipid profile and angiographic testing. Patients were categorized into four groups according to stenosis location: normal, extracranial atherosclerotic stenosis (ECAS), intracranial atherosclerotic stenosis (ICAS), or ECAS + ICAS. Subgroup analyses were performed by pre-admission statin use.
RESULTS: Of the 6338 patients included, 1980 (31.2%) were in the normal group, 718 (11.3%) in the ECAS group, 1845 (29.1%) in the ICAS group, and 1795 (28.3%) in the ECAS + ICAS group. Both LDL-C and ApoB levels were associated with every location of stenosis. A significant interaction was found between pre-admission statin use and LDL-C level (p for interaction <0.05). LDL-C was associated with stenosis only in statin-naïve patients, whereas ApoB was associated with ICAS, with or without ECAS, in both statin-naïve and statin-treated patients. ApoB also showed a consistent association with symptomatic ICAS in both statin-treated and statin-naïve patients, whereas LDL-C did not.
CONCLUSIONS: ApoB was consistently associated with ICAS, particularly symptomatic stenosis, in both statin-naïve and statin-treated patients. The close association between ApoB levels and residual risk in statin-treated patients could be partially explained by these results.

Citation: Baik M, et al. Differential association between apolipoprotein B and LDL cholesterol and cerebral atherosclerosis according to pre-stroke statin use. Differential association between apolipoprotein B and LDL cholesterol and cerebral atherosclerosis according to pre-stroke statin use. 2023; 371:14-20. doi: 10.1016/j.atherosclerosis.2023.03.014

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36966561/
