PMID: 36966961
Title: Determination of the role of hippocampal astrocytes in the bilateral common carotid artery stenosis mouse model by RNA sequencing.

Abstract: INTRODUCTION: Bilateral common carotid artery stenosis (BCAS) is used experimentally to model vascular dementia (VaD). Previous studies have primarily focused on the degradation of brain white matter after BCAS. However, hippocampal abnormalities are equally important, and hippocampal astrocytes are specifically involved in neural circuits that regulate learning and memory. Whether hippocampal astrocytes participate in the pathogenesis of BCAS-induced VaD has not been well studied. Therefore, in the present study, we attempted to explore the role of hippocampal astrocytes in BCAS.
METHODS: Two months after BCAS, behavioral experiments were conducted to investigate changes in neurological function in sham and BCAS mice. A ribosome-tagging approach (RiboTag) profiling strategy was used to isolate mRNAs enriched in hippocampal astrocytes, and the RNA was sequenced and analyzed using transcriptomic methods. Quantitative reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR) was utilized to validate the results of RNA sequencing. Immunofluorescence analyses were conducted to evaluate the number and morphology of hippocampal astrocytes.
RESULTS: We observed significant short-term working memory impairment in BCAS mice. Moreover, the RNA obtained through RiboTag technology was specific to astrocytes. Transcriptomics approaches and subsequent validation studies revealed that the genes that showed expression changes in hippocampal astrocytes after BCAS were mainly involved in immune system processes, glial cell proliferation, substance transport and metabolism. Furthermore, the number and distribution of astrocytes in the CA1 region of the hippocampus tended to decrease after modeling.
CONCLUSION: In this study, comparisons between sham and BCAS mice showed that the functions of hippocampal astrocytes were impaired in BCAS-induced chronic cerebral hypoperfusion-related VaD.

Citation: Li J, et al. Determination of the role of hippocampal astrocytes in the bilateral common carotid artery stenosis mouse model by RNA sequencing. Determination of the role of hippocampal astrocytes in the bilateral common carotid artery stenosis mouse model by RNA sequencing. 2023; 805:137213. doi: 10.1016/j.neulet.2023.137213

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36966961/
