PMID: 36975859
Title: Lipoprotein(a): Its Association with Calcific Aortic Valve Stenosis, the Emerging RNA-Related Treatments and the Hope for a New Era in "Treating" Aortic Valve Calcification.

Abstract: The treatment of patients with aortic valve calcification (AVC) and calcific aortic valve stenosis (CAVS) remains challenging as, until today, all non-invasive interventions have proven fruitless in preventing the disease's onset and progression. Despite the similarities in the pathogenesis of AVC and atherosclerosis, statins failed to show a favorable effect in preventing AVC progression. The recognition of lipoprotein(a) [Lp(a)] as a strong and potentially modifiable risk factor for the development and, perhaps, the progression of AVC and CAVS and the evolution of novel agents leading in a robust Lp(a) reduction, have rekindled hope for a promising future in the treatment of those patients. Lp(a) seems to promote AVC via a 'three hit' mechanism including lipid deposition, inflammation and autotaxin transportation. All of these lead to valve interstitial cells transition into osteoblast-like cells and, thus, to parenchymal calcification. Currently available lipid-lowering therapies have shown a neutral or mild effect on Lp(a), which was proven insufficient to contribute to clinical benefits. The short-term safety and the efficacy of the emerging agents in reducing Lp(a) have been proven; nevertheless, their effect on cardiovascular risk is currently under investigation in phase 3 clinical trials. A positive result of these trials will probably be the spark to test the hypothesis of the modification of AVC's natural history with the novel Lp(a)-lowering agents.

Citation: Tsamoulis D, et al. Lipoprotein(a): Its Association with Calcific Aortic Valve Stenosis, the Emerging RNA-Related Treatments and the Hope for a New Era in "Treating" Aortic Valve Calcification. Lipoprotein(a): Its Association with Calcific Aortic Valve Stenosis, the Emerging RNA-Related Treatments and the Hope for a New Era in "Treating" Aortic Valve Calcification. 2023; 10:(unknown pages). doi: 10.3390/jcdd10030096

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36975859/
