PMID: 36972512
Title: Serial Lung Perfusion Scintigraphy After Unifocalization and Repair of Tetralogy of Fallot With Major Aortopulmonary Collaterals.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: In patients with tetralogy of Fallot and major aortopulmonary collaterals (MAPCAs), pulmonary blood supply is highly variable. Our approach to this condition emphasizes complete unifocalization of the pulmonary circulation, incorporating all lung segments and addressing stenoses out to the segmental level. Post-repair, we recommend serial lung perfusion scintigraphy (LPS) to assess short-term changes in pulmonary blood flow distribution.
METHODS: We reviewed post-discharge and follow-up LPS performed through three years post-repair and analyzed serial changes in perfusion, risk factors for change, and the relationship between LPS parameters and pulmonary artery reintervention.
RESULTS: Of 543 patients who had postoperative LPS results in our system, 317 (58%) had only a predischarge LPS available for review, while 226 had 1 (20%) or more (22%) follow-up scans within three years. Overall, pulmonary flow distribution prior to discharge was balanced, and there was minimal change over time; however, there was considerable patient-to-patient variation in both metrics. On multivariable mixed modeling, time after repair (P = .025), initial anatomy consisting of a ductus arteriosus to one lung (P &lt; .001), and age at repair (P = .014) were associated with changes on serial LPS. Patients who had follow-up LPS were more likely to undergo pulmonary artery reintervention, but within that cohort, LPS parameters were not associated with reintervention risk.
CONCLUSION: Serial LPS during the first year after MAPCAs repair is a noninvasive method of screening for significant post-repair pulmonary artery stenosis that occurs in a small but important minority of patients. In patients who received follow-up LPS beyond the perioperative period, there was minimal change over time in the population overall, but large changes in some patients and considerable variability. There was no statistical association between LPS findings and pulmonary artery reintervention.

Citation: Wise-Faberowski L, et al. Serial Lung Perfusion Scintigraphy After Unifocalization and Repair of Tetralogy of Fallot With Major Aortopulmonary Collaterals. Serial Lung Perfusion Scintigraphy After Unifocalization and Repair of Tetralogy of Fallot With Major Aortopulmonary Collaterals. 2023; 14:261-272. doi: 10.1177/21501351231162959

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36972512/
