PMID: 36970848
Title: Transthyretin Amyloid Cardiomyopathy Risk Evaluation in a Cohort of Patients With Heart Failure.

Abstract: Introduction Transthyretin amyloid cardiomyopathy (ATTR-CM) is a progressive, infiltrative form of heart failure (HF). Nevertheless, ATTR-CM is a largely underrecognized and misdiagnosed condition. This study's objective was to develop an efficient model to assess the chance of ATTR-CM in patients with HF. Methods This was an observational study of patients with HF who had a confirmed diagnosis of ATTR-CM and those with HF but without known ATTR-CM between January 1, 2019, and July 1, 2021. Patient characteristics were extracted from administrative and claims electronic databases and compared between the groups. A propensity score for having ATTR-CM was modeled. Samples of 50 control patients with the highest and lowest propensity scores were adjudicated to assess whether further workup to evaluate for ATTR-CM was warranted for each patient. The sensitivity and specificity of the model were calculated. Results Thirty-one patients with confirmed ATTR-CM and 7620 patients without known ATTR-CM were included in the study. Patients with ATTR-CM were more likely to be Black and to have atrial flutter/fibrillation, cardiomegaly, HF with preserved ejection fraction, pericardial effusion, carpal tunnel syndrome, joint disorders, and lumbar spinal stenosis and to use a diuretic (all p < 0.05). A propensity model with 16 inputs was developed (c-statistic = 0.875). The model's sensitivity and specificity were 71.9% and 95.2%, respectively. Conclusion The propensity model developed in this study provided an efficient means for identifying patients with HF who are more likely to have ATTR-CM and may warrant further workup.

Citation: Suh AA, et al. Transthyretin Amyloid Cardiomyopathy Risk Evaluation in a Cohort of Patients With Heart Failure. Transthyretin Amyloid Cardiomyopathy Risk Evaluation in a Cohort of Patients With Heart Failure. 2023; 27:51-60. doi: 10.7812/TPP/22.135

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36970848/
