PMID: 36976339
Title: Normal reference values for magnetic resonance imaging measurements of the fetal internal jugular veins in middle and late pregnancy.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: At present, there is a lack of normal magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) morphometric reference values for fetal internal jugular veins during middle and late pregnancy.
OBJECTIVE: We used MRI to assess the morphology and cross-sectional area of the internal jugular veins of fetuses during middle and late pregnancy and to explore the clinical value of these parameters.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: The MRI images of 126 fetuses in middle and late pregnancy were retrospectively analysed to determine the optimal sequence for imaging the internal jugular veins. Morphological observation of the fetal internal jugular veins in each gestational week was carried out, lumen cross-sectional area was measured and the relationship between these data and gestational age was analysed.
RESULTS: The balanced steady-state free precession sequence was superior to other MRI sequences used for fetal imaging. The cross section of fetal internal jugular veins was predominantly circular in both the middle and late stages of pregnancy, however the prevalence of an oval cross section was significantly higher in the late gestational age group. The cross-sectional area of the lumen of the fetal internal jugular veins increased with increasing gestational age. Fetal jugular vein asymmetry was common, with the right jugular vein being dominant in the high gestational age group.
CONCLUSION: We provide normal reference values for fetal internal jugular veins measured by MRI. These values may form the basis for clinical assessment of abnormal dilation or stenosis.

Citation: Gao D, et al. Normal reference values for magnetic resonance imaging measurements of the fetal internal jugular veins in middle and late pregnancy. Normal reference values for magnetic resonance imaging measurements of the fetal internal jugular veins in middle and late pregnancy. 2023; 53:920-928. doi: 10.1007/s00247-023-05594-w

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36976339/
