PMID: 36989446
Title: Economic burden related to fistulas or strictures among commercially insured patients with Crohn's disease in the United States.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Crohn's disease (CD) is a chronic, progressive, immune-mediated gastrointestinal condition that can lead to fistulizing or stricturing complications. OBJECTIVE: To quantify the burden of illness related to fistulas and/or strictures in patients with CD. METHODS: Using the Optum Research Database from October 2015 to December 2019, patients with CD were classified according to 1 of 3 condition cohorts: CD with fistula (CD-F), CD with stricture (CD-S), or CD with fistula and stricture (CD-FS). Each cohort was matched to a nonfistula, nonstricture CD cohort. Postdiagnosis per patient per year (PPPY) costs and health care resource utilization were assessed, accounting for variable lengths of follow-up periods. Multivariable generalized linear models were used to estimate the adjusted mean costs in each cohort. RESULTS: The CD-F, CD-S, and CD-FS cohorts included 1,317; 4,650; and 894 patients, respectively. The mean age of patients within the CD-S and their comparator cohorts was higher than in the CD-F or CD-FS cohorts (59.9 vs 49.5 vs 49.6 years). At baseline, cardiovascular disease was the most common comorbidity across all condition and comparator cohorts. Condition cohorts had 2-4 times more inpatient visits, 5-8 times more surgical visits, and 2-3 times more endoscopies PPPY than comparator cohorts. Compared with their respective comparator cohort, patients in the 3 condition cohorts had higher medication, medical, and total health care costs. CONCLUSIONS: This study demonstrates a significant economic burden related to fistulas and/or strictures among patients with CD, highlighting the importance of prevention, early recognition, and appropriate management of CD-related complications. DISCLOSURES: Yanni Fan, Ling Zhang, Jennifer S Thompson, and Kimberly G Brodovicz are employees of Boehringer Ingelheim. Rhonda L Bohn, Monik C Jiménez, and Stephani Gray (Bohn Epidemiology, LLC) are paid consultants to Boehringer Ingelheim. Gil Y Melmed reports receiving grants from Pfizer; consulting fees from Boehringer Ingelheim, AbbVie, Arena, BMS, Celgene, Entasis, Ferring Lilly, Fresenius Kabi, Medtronic, Samsung Bioepis, Janssen, Takeda, Pfizer, Prometheus Labs, and TechLab. We conducted a retrospective study using administrative claims data from the Optum Research Database, a database of a commercially insured population in the United States. All patient data were anonymized and deidentified; therefore, informed consent was not necessary. Restrictions apply to the availability of these data because of a contract between Optum and Boehringer Ingelheim, and data are thus unavailable to the public. For enquiries on the dataset analyzed in this study, please contact Optum (https://www.optum.com).

Citation: Fan Y, et al. Economic burden related to fistulas or strictures among commercially insured patients with Crohn's disease in the United States. Economic burden related to fistulas or strictures among commercially insured patients with Crohn's disease in the United States. 2023; 29:400-408. doi: 10.18553/jmcp.2023.29.4.400

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36989446/
