PMID: 36983895
Title: Developing a Tracheal Rendezvous Procedure for Complete High Subglottic Stenosis.

Abstract: Complete subglottic stenosis is often managed with surgical resection. However, involvement of the high subglottis can limit candidacy for open resection, and there are few treatment options for these patients. We refined an endoscopic approach that evolved into a tracheal rendezvous technique with T-tube placement as an alternative to open surgical resection. Here, we present our series, technique, and outcomes. A retrospective review was performed to identify patients who underwent endoscopic management of complete high subglottic stenosis at the University of California San Diego. The surgical technique was initially a two-step staged procedure and was subsequently revised to a single-stage procedure with stenosis ablation, dilation, and insertion of a T-tube, which was completed in one day. Patients were seen at regular follow-up intervals for reassessment. Five patients were identified with complete stenosis not amenable to surgical resection. The average age of the cohort was 44.8 years. The etiology of stenosis in all patients was related to prolonged intubation and tracheostomy, and the average length of stenosis was 19.6 mm. Stenosis resection was accomplished via laser ablation and balloon dilation, and the average T-tube length was 50.3 mm. All patients were discharged on postoperative day one. Two patients developed airway crusting within the T-tube and required emergency department visits. Decannulation was attempted in three patients, although failed in two. Tracheal rendezvous is a safe and effective procedure for patients with grade IV subglottic stenosis. This provides a feasible endoscopic alternative to patients who are not candidates for open surgical resection, ye are motivated to have phonatory capacity.

Citation: Weissbrod PA, et al. Developing a Tracheal Rendezvous Procedure for Complete High Subglottic Stenosis. Developing a Tracheal Rendezvous Procedure for Complete High Subglottic Stenosis. 2023; 13:(unknown pages). doi: 10.3390/life13030740

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36983895/
