PMID: 36987683
Title: Association between basilar artery stenosis features, vertebral artery stenosis and perforator stroke after stenting.

Abstract: BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: We investigated the relationship between basilar artery (BA) atherosclerotic stenosis features and vertebral artery (VA) stenosis and explored whether BA stenosis features are associated with perforator stroke after stenting.
METHODS: Patients with BA stenosis who underwent HRMRI and DSA were recruited. Patients were divided into proximal BA stenosis and middle-or-distal BA stenosis groups, and then subgroup analyses were performed based on whether they had VA stenosis. BA plaque features were evaluated by HRMRI. Artery stenosis was measured by DSA. The incidence of perforator stroke after BA stenting was recorded, and the potential association between BA stenosis features and perforator stroke was analyzed.
RESULTS: One hundred and seventy-four patients were consecutively enrolled. Patients with proximal BA stenosis had a higher proportion of severe stenosis than those with middle-or-distal BA stenosis (P = 0.027). In the subgroup analysis, this difference mainly existed in patients complicated with VA stenosis (P = 0.023). Patients with proximal BA stenosis had a higher proportion of strong plaque enhancement than those with middle-or-distal BA stenosis (P &lt; 0.001), especially in those with vertebrobasilar junction (VBJ) stenosis (P &lt; 0.001). Perforator stroke after BA stenting occurred in five patients, of whom four had lateral wall BA plaques, four had plaque enhancement and four had proximal BA stenosis.
CONCLUSION: Patients with proximal BA stenosis had a higher proportion of severe stenosis and strong plaque enhancement, particularly in patients complicated with VA stenosis and VBJ stenosis. Perforator stroke after BA stenting may be related to distribution, burden and characteristics of BA lesions.

Citation: Huang R, et al. Association between basilar artery stenosis features, vertebral artery stenosis and perforator stroke after stenting. Association between basilar artery stenosis features, vertebral artery stenosis and perforator stroke after stenting. 2023; (unknown volume):15910199231164840. doi: 10.1177/15910199231164840

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36987683/
