PMID: 36988521
Title: Left main stem stenosis angioplasty with intravascular ultrasound optimisation criteria guidance using a new generation everolimus drug-eluting stent.

Abstract: INTRODUCTION: Intravascular ultrasound (IVUS) is recommended in the use of left main stem (LMS) percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI). Since the LMS diameter is usually larger than other coronary arteries, a new generation everolimus drug-eluting stent (DES), Synergy Megatron DES (Boston Scientific) has better axial and radial strength allowing more post implant overexpansion and consequently better suited for LMS lesions. We performed a study to evaluate the clinical outcomes of PCI using 1) an improved IVUS protocol with optimisation targets and 2) the use of Megatron stents.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: This was a study involving LMS PCI coronary lesions using the Synergy Megatron DES. An IVUS protocol using predefined optimisation targets to evaluate for stent malapposition, longitudinal stent deformation, optimal stent expansion >90% of reference lumen and appropriate distal landing zone was used in all cases. The primary end-point was procedural success, defined by successful stent implantation with <30% residual stenosis. The secondary end-point was in-hospital and 30-day major adverse cardiovascular event (MACE).
RESULTS: Eight patients with significant LMS stenosis were successfully treated with the Megatron stent. The primary end-point was achieved in all patients. There were no cases of stent malapposition or longitudinal stent deformation, one case did not have optimal LMS stent expansion and one case did not have an appropriate distal landing zone. IVUS optimisation criteria were met in 6 (75%) cases. There were no complications of coronary dissection, slow or no reflow, stent thrombosis or vessel perforation. None of the patients suffered in-hospital or 30-day MACE. The average LMS MLD at baseline was 2.1 ± 0.1mm and the post-PCI LMS MLD was 4.0 ± 0.5mm, with a significant acute luminal gain of 1.9 ± 0.7mm (p<0.01). A post-PCI MSA of 17 ± 3.9 mm2 was numerically superior compared to those documented in other LMS PCI trials.
CONCLUSION: This study demonstrates low rates of shortterm major adverse cardiovascular events among patients with LMS PCI using the Megatron stents. It highlights the usefulness of IVUS-guided optimisation in LMS PCI. With the use of intravascular imaging, the new generation stent technology can improve the treatment of large proximal vessels and PCI of LMS lesions.

Citation: Yap LB, et al. Left main stem stenosis angioplasty with intravascular ultrasound optimisation criteria guidance using a new generation everolimus drug-eluting stent. Left main stem stenosis angioplasty with intravascular ultrasound optimisation criteria guidance using a new generation everolimus drug-eluting stent. 2023; 78:139-144.

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36988521/
