PMID: 36984574
Title: Enterolith Treated with a Combination of Double-Balloon Endoscopy and Cola Dissolution Therapy.

Abstract: A 71-year-old woman with rheumatoid arthritis who had been taking NSAIDs for many years consulted our hospital for abdominal pain. She was diagnosed with a small bowel obstruction due to an enterolith according to an abdominal CT scan that showed dilation from the enterolith in the small intestine on the oral side. It was considered that the intestinal stone was formed due to stagnation of intestinal contents and had gradually increased in size, resulting in an intestinal obstruction. We performed antegrade double-balloon endoscopy (DBE) to observe and remove the enterolith. We used forceps and a snare to fracture the enterolith. During this attempt, we found a seed in the center of the enterolith. Since the intestinal stone was very hard, cola dissolution therapy was administered from an ileus tube for 1 week. The following week, DBE was performed again, and it was found that the stone had further softened, making attempts at fracture easier. Finally, the enterolith was almost completely fractured. Intestinal stenosis, probably due to ulcers caused by NSAIDs, was found. Small bowel obstruction with an enterolith is rare. In this case, it was considered that the seed could not pass through the stenotic region of the small intestine and the intestinal contents had gradually built up around it. It has been suggested that DBE may be a therapeutic option in cases of an enterolith. Further, cola dissolution therapy has been shown to be useful in treating an enterolith, with the possible explanation that cola undergoes an acid-base reaction with the enterolith. In summary, we report, for the first time, treatment of an enterolith with a combination of DBE and cola dissolution therapy, thereby avoiding surgery and its risks.

Citation: Nomura K, et al. Enterolith Treated with a Combination of Double-Balloon Endoscopy and Cola Dissolution Therapy. Enterolith Treated with a Combination of Double-Balloon Endoscopy and Cola Dissolution Therapy. 2023; 59:(unknown pages). doi: 10.3390/medicina59030573

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36984574/
