PMID: 36984540
Title: Clinical and Radiological Characteristics of Cervical Spondylotic Myelopathy in Young Adults: A Retrospective Case Series of Patients under Age 30.

Abstract: Background and Objectives: Cervical spondylotic myelopathy (CSM) is a degenerative disease and occurs more frequently with age. In fact, the development of non-herniated CSM under age 30 is uncommon. Therefore, a retrospective case series was designed to clarify clinical and radiological characteristics of young adult patients with CSM under age 30. Materials and Methods: A total of seven patients, all men, with non-herniated, degenerative CSM under age 30 were retrieved from the medical records of 2598 hospitalized CSM patients (0.27%). Patient demographics and backgrounds were assessed. The sagittal alignment, congenital canal stenosis, dynamic canal stenosis, and vertebral slips in the cervical spine were radiographically evaluated. The presence of degenerative discs, intramedullary high-signal intensity lesions, and sagittal spinal cord compression on T2-weighted magnetic resonance images (MRIs) and axial spinal cord deformity on T1-weighted MRIs was identified. Results: All patients (100.0%) had relatively high daily sports activities and/or jobs requiring frequent neck extension. Cervical spine radiographs revealed the sagittal alignment as the "reverse-sigmoid" type in 57.1% of patients and "straight" type in 28.6%. All patients (100.0%) presented congenital cervical stenosis with the canal diameter ≤12 mm and/or Torg-Pavlov ratio &lt;0.80. Furthermore, all patients (100.0%) developed dynamic stenosis with the canal diameter ≤12 mm and/or posterior vertebral slip ≥2 mm at the neurologically responsible segment in full-extension position. In MRI examination, all discs at the neurologically responsible level (100.0%) were degenerative. Intramedullary abnormal intensity lesions were detected in 85.7% of patients, which were all at the neurologically responsible disc level. Conclusions: Patients with non-herniated, degenerative CSM under age 30 are rare but more common in men with mild sagittal "reverse-sigmoid" or "straight" deformity and congenital canal stenosis. Relatively high daily activities, accumulating neck stress, can cause an early development of intervertebral disc degeneration and dynamic canal stenosis, leading to CSM in young adults.

Citation: Terashima Y, et al. Clinical and Radiological Characteristics of Cervical Spondylotic Myelopathy in Young Adults: A Retrospective Case Series of Patients under Age 30. Clinical and Radiological Characteristics of Cervical Spondylotic Myelopathy in Young Adults: A Retrospective Case Series of Patients under Age 30. 2023; 59:(unknown pages). doi: 10.3390/medicina59030539

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36984540/
