PMID: 36994491
Title: Stent-Assisted Coil Embolization of a Saccular Visceral Aortic Aneurysm: Case Report and Review of the Literature.

Abstract: PURPOSE: We present the results of unconventional endovascular treatment of a voluminous (65 mm) saccular visceral aortic aneurysm in a 78-year-old woman. Patient was deemed unfit for open surgery due to comorbidities. Fenestrated or branched endografting was also excluded due to the small diameter of the aorta, the severe stenosis at the origin of celiac trunk, and the anomalous origin of superior mesenteric artery arising infrarenally.
CASE REPORT: After a preliminary selective angiography of the superior mesenteric artery showing valid anastomotic network with celiac trunk branches, an aortic self-expandable bare stent (Jotec E-XL) was deployed in the visceral aorta. Aneurysm sac embolization (Penumbra detachable Ruby Coils) in a coil-jailing technique was performed. Finally, an aortic cuff endograft (Gore) was deployed immediately above the origin of the left renal artery to cover the wide neck of the saccular aneurysm and improve sac exclusion. Hospital stay was uneventful, computed tomography (CT) at 12-month demonstrated aneurysm shrinkage to 62 mm without images of endoleak. Literature review showed how this technique has successfully been applied to manage similar cases of postsurgical and posttraumatic saccular aortic aneurysms in high-risk patients; however, long-term results are still unknown.
CONCLUSION: Coil-jail technique for the treatment of saccular aortic aneurysms can be considered an alternative when open surgery or conventional endovascular treatment is not feasible. Technical success and mid-term outcomes are promising but strict follow-up is recommended.
CLINICAL IMPACT: This study aims to share the unconventional endovascular treatment of a visceral aortic aneurysm in a patient unfit both for open and traditional endovascular surgery. To the best of our knowledge this is one of the first cases published in Literature, for this reason, a step-by-step video has been created to describe the procedure. Literature review was then performed to analyze midterm results of this technique. Despite being a treatment that is not recommended for conventional cases, the knowledge of endovascular devices and techniques may help to manage or simplify complex aortic diseases.

Citation: Gibello L, et al. Stent-Assisted Coil Embolization of a Saccular Visceral Aortic Aneurysm: Case Report and Review of the Literature. Stent-Assisted Coil Embolization of a Saccular Visceral Aortic Aneurysm: Case Report and Review of the Literature. 2024; 31:1065-1070. doi: 10.1177/15266028231162259

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36994491/
