PMID: 36993720
Title: A novel SMARCC1 -mutant BAFopathy implicates epigenetic dysregulation of neural progenitors in hydrocephalus.

Abstract: IMPORTANCE: Hydrocephalus, characterized by cerebral ventriculomegaly, is the most common disorder requiring brain surgery. A few familial forms of congenital hydrocephalus (CH) have been identified, but the cause of most sporadic cases of CH remains elusive. Recent studies have implicated SMARCC1 , a component of the B RG1- a ssociated factor (BAF) chromatin remodeling complex, as a candidate CH gene. However, SMARCC1 variants have not been systematically examined in a large patient cohort or conclusively linked with a human syndrome. Moreover, CH-associated SMARCC1 variants have not been functionally validated or mechanistically studied in vivo .
OBJECTIVES: The aims of this study are to (i) assess the extent to which rare, damaging de novo mutations (DNMs) in SMARCC1 are associated with cerebral ventriculomegaly; (ii) describe the clinical and radiographic phenotypes of SMARCC1 -mutated patients; and (iii) assess the pathogenicity and mechanisms of CH-associated SMARCC1 mutations in vivo .
DESIGN SETTING AND PARTICIPANTS: A genetic association study was conducted using whole-exome sequencing from a cohort consisting of 2,697 ventriculomegalic trios, including patients with neurosurgically-treated CH, totaling 8,091 exomes collected over 5 years (2016-2021). Data were analyzed in 2023. A comparison control cohort consisted of 1,798 exomes from unaffected siblings of patients with autism spectrum disorder and their unaffected parents sourced from the Simons simplex consortium.
MAIN OUTCOMES AND MEASURES: Gene variants were identified and filtered using stringent, validated criteria. Enrichment tests assessed gene-level variant burden. In silico biophysical modeling estimated the likelihood and extent of the variant impact on protein structure. The effect of a CH-associated SMARCC1 mutation on the human fetal brain transcriptome was assessed by analyzing RNA-sequencing data. Smarcc1 knockdowns and a patient-specific Smarcc1 variant were tested in Xenopus and studied using optical coherence tomography imaging, in situ hybridization, and immunofluorescence microscopy.
RESULTS: SMARCC1 surpassed genome-wide significance thresholds in DNM enrichment tests. Six rare protein-altering DNMs, including four loss-of-function mutations and one recurrent canonical splice site mutation (c.1571+1G&gt;A) were detected in unrelated patients. DNMs localized to the highly conserved DNA-interacting SWIRM, Myb-DNA binding, Glu-rich, and Chromo domains of SMARCC1 . Patients exhibited developmental delay (DD), aqueductal stenosis, and other structural brain and heart defects. G0 and G1 Smarcc1 Xenopus mutants exhibited aqueductal stenosis and cardiac defects and were rescued by human wild-type SMARCC1 but not a patient-specific SMARCC1 mutant. Hydrocephalic SMARCC1 -mutant human fetal brain and Smarcc1 -mutant Xenopus brain exhibited a similarly altered expression of key genes linked to midgestational neurogenesis, including the transcription factors NEUROD2 and MAB21L2 .
CONCLUSIONS: SMARCC1 is a bona fide CH risk gene. DNMs in SMARCC1 cause a novel human BAFopathy we term " S MARCC1- a ssociated D evelopmental D ysgenesis S yndrome (SaDDS)", characterized by cerebral ventriculomegaly, aqueductal stenosis, DD, and a variety of structural brain or cardiac defects. These data underscore the importance of SMARCC1 and the BAF chromatin remodeling complex for human brain morphogenesis and provide evidence for a "neural stem cell" paradigm of human CH pathogenesis. These results highlight the utility of trio-based WES for identifying risk genes for congenital structural brain disorders and suggest WES may be a valuable adjunct in the clinical management of CH patients.
KEY POINTS: Question: What is the role of SMARCC1 , a core component of the B RG1- a ssociated factor (BAF) chromatin remodeling complex, in brain morphogenesis and congenital hydrocephalus (CH)? Findings: SMARCC1 harbored an exome-wide significant burden of rare, protein-damaging de novo mutations (DNMs) (p = 5.83 × 10 -9 ) in the largest ascertained cohort to date of patients with cerebral ventriculomegaly, including treated CH (2,697 parent-proband trios). SMARCC1 contained four loss-of-function DNMs and two identical canonical splice site DNMs in a total of six unrelated patients. Patients exhibited developmental delay, aqueductal stenosis, and other structural brain and cardiac defects. Xenopus Smarcc1 mutants recapitulated core human phenotypes and were rescued by the expression of human wild-type but not patient-mutant SMARCC1 . Hydrocephalic SMARCC1 -mutant human brain and Smarcc1 -mutant Xenopus brain exhibited similar alterationsin the expression of key transcription factors that regulate neural progenitor cell proliferation. Meaning: SMARCC1 is essential for human brain morphogenesis and is a bona fide CH risk gene. SMARCC1 mutations cause a novel human BAFopathy we term " S MARCC1- a ssociated D evelopmental D ysgenesis S yndrome (SaDDS)". These data implicate epigenetic dysregulation of fetal neural progenitors in the pathogenesis of hydrocephalus, with diagnostic and prognostic implications for patients and caregivers.

Citation: Singh AK, et al. A novel SMARCC1 -mutant BAFopathy implicates epigenetic dysregulation of neural progenitors in hydrocephalus. A novel SMARCC1 -mutant BAFopathy implicates epigenetic dysregulation of neural progenitors in hydrocephalus. 2023; (unknown volume):(unknown pages). doi: 10.1101/2023.03.19.23287455

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36993720/
