PMID: 36995084
Title: Percutaneous Superficial Temporal Artery Access Facilitating Carotid Artery Stenting Performed From Distal Radial Artery.

Abstract: PURPOSE: The purpose of the study is to describe carotid artery stenting (CAS) via distal transradial access (dTRA) facilitated by additional superficial temporal artery (STA) access, in a patient with complex aortic arch vessel anatomy.
TECHNIQUE: A 72-year-old woman with a prior history of complex cervical surgery and radiotherapy due to laryngeal malignancy, presented with a symptomatic 90% stenosis of the left internal carotid artery (ICA). Due to high cervical lesion, the patient was rejected from carotid endarterectomy. Angiography demonstrated 90% stenosis of the left ICA and a type III aortic arch. After failure of left common carotid artery (CCA) cannulation with appropriate catheter support via dTRA and transfemoral approaches, CAS was attempted a second time. After percutaneous ultrasound guided access to right dTRA and left STA, a 0.035 inch guidewire introduced to the left CCA from the contralateral dTRA was snared and externalized via left STA to improve wire support for guiding advancement. Thereafter, the left ICA lesion was successfully stented with a 7×30 mm self-expanding stent via right dTRA. All vessels involved were patent at 6-month follow-up.
CONCLUSION: The STA may be a promising adjunctive access site to increase transradial catheter support for CAS or neurointerventional procedures in the anterior circulation.
CLINICAL IMPACT: Transradial cerebrovascular interventions have been gaining popularity, however, unstable catheter access to distal cerebrovascular structures limits its widespread use. Guidewire externalization technique via additional STA access may improve transradial catheter stabilty and increase procedural success with possibly low access stie complication rate.

Citation: Hausinger P, et al. Percutaneous Superficial Temporal Artery Access Facilitating Carotid Artery Stenting Performed From Distal Radial Artery. Percutaneous Superficial Temporal Artery Access Facilitating Carotid Artery Stenting Performed From Distal Radial Artery. 2023; (unknown volume):15266028231163440. doi: 10.1177/15266028231163440

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36995084/
