PMID: 37000862
Title: Endoscopic biliary ethanol ablation using a novel multi-hole balloon catheter: In vivo feasibility study in a swine model.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Minimally invasive local treatment could be a good option for the treatment of extrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma (eCCA). This study aimed to evaluate the feasibility of a novel local treatment method, endoscopic biliary ethanol ablation (EA), in vivo using a swine model.
METHODS: This study utilized a prototype of the newly developed multi-hole balloon catheter. The swine bile duct was ablated using this balloon via the same approach as the conventional endoscopic retrograde cholangiography procedure. The study outcomes included technical success, clinical success, and adverse events associated with endoscopic biliary EA.
RESULTS: Fourteen miniature pigs underwent endoscopic biliary EA. Technical success was achieved for all endoscopic EA procedures without any hindrance. All pigs were reared and followed up for a median 35-day period after the procedure. No change was observed in the bile duct wall in one case, in which sufficient contact was not achieved between the balloon and bile duct wall. Except for this case, stricture formation occurred at the site of ablation, where the epithelium was sloughed and necrosis with denaturation replaced the granulation tissue and fibrotic changes. The median length and depth of the ablation area were 17.05 and 2.21 mm, respectively. No adverse events were observed, except for the formation of bile duct strictures and sequelae associated with strictures.
CONCLUSIONS: This preliminary study was the first to report endoscopic biliary EA using a novel multi-hole balloon catheter, which demonstrated technical feasibility and potential for the treatment for eCCA.

Citation: Inoue T, et al. Endoscopic biliary ethanol ablation using a novel multi-hole balloon catheter: In vivo feasibility study in a swine model. Endoscopic biliary ethanol ablation using a novel multi-hole balloon catheter: In vivo feasibility study in a swine model. 2023; 18:e0283733. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0283733

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37000862/
