PMID: 37007876
Title: Laryngotracheal Stenosis: Our Experience in a Tertiary Care Hospital.

Abstract: Laryngotracheal stenosis is a recalcitrant disease with high morbidity. Laryngotracheal stenosis can be defined as a partial or circumferential narrowing of the airway and may be congenital or acquired. Sites involved are supraglottis, glottis, or sub glottis. The goal of treating the patient with laryngotracheal stenosis is to reconstruct an adequate airway while preserving phonation and airway protection. Furthermore, there is no fixed treatment for laryngotracheal stenosis, the choice of surgical procedure is determined by the individual anatomy, involved site, length and luminal narrowing of stenotic segment and function of the larynx and trachea, together with patient factors and available facilities. To determine the most common aetiology of laryngotracheal stenosis and to study outcome of various treatment modalities and their efficacies according to the site of stenosis and time of presentation. We have prospectively studied 25 cases of laryngotracheal stenosis who presented in Department of ENT, Civil Hospital, Ahmedabad from May 2019 to December 2021. All patients with clinical suspicion of laryngotracheal stenosis underwent CECT Neck and Thorax with virtual bronchoscopy, flexible bronchoscopy and graded according to myer cotton classification and then included in study. In our study of 25 patients 19 patients had history of intubation. Out of 25 patients, 5 Powered by Editorial Manager® and ProduXion Manager® from Aries Systems Corporation patients had supraglottic stenosis, 14 had subglottic stenosis and 6 patients had tracheal stenosis. 20 patients were tracheostomised. Bilateral vocal cord mobility is pre requisite for any surgical intervention and for decannulation of tracheostomy tube. Laser ablation is best modality for supra glottis stenosis patients. Treatment options of subglottic and tracheal stenosis patients depends on vocal cord mobility, % of luminal narrowing and type of stenosis on flexible bronchoscopy and CT scan. Patients of subglottic or tracheal stenosis having Myer cotton grading 1 or 2 were successfully treated by Laser + Balloon dilatation while grade 3 or 4 by resection and end to end anastomosis. Endoscopic CO<sub>2</sub> laser ablation with/without balloon dilatation gives promising results in cases of supra glottic stenosis and in soft, mucosal, short segment (&lt; 1.5 cm), grade 1 or 2 stenosis patients with subglottic or tracheal stenosis. In patients with subglottic or tracheal stenosis having hard, cartilage framework involvement, &gt; 1.5 cm stenotic segment, Grade 3 or 4 needed external open approach like tracheal resection and end to end anastomosis.

Citation: Pandya A, et al. Laryngotracheal Stenosis: Our Experience in a Tertiary Care Hospital. Laryngotracheal Stenosis: Our Experience in a Tertiary Care Hospital. 2023; 75:39-44. doi: 10.1007/s12070-022-03445-y

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37007876/
