PMID: 37005801
Title: [Protective mechanism of salvianolic acid B on blood vessels].

Abstract: Salvianolic acid B(Sal B) is the main water-soluble component of Salvia miltiorrhiza Bunge. Studies have found that Sal B has a good protective effect on blood vessels. Sal B can protect endothelial cells by anti-oxidative stress, inducing autophagy, inhibiting endoplasmic reticulum stress(ERS), inhibiting endothelial inflammation and adhesion molecule expression, inhibiting endothelial cell permeability, anti-thrombosis, and other ways. In addition, Sal B can alleviate endothelial cell damage caused by high glucose(HG). For vascular smooth muscle cell(VSMC), Sal B can reduce the synthesis and secretion of inflammatory factors by inhibiting cyclooxygenase. It can also play a vasodilatory role by inhibiting Ca~(2+) influx. In addition, Sal B can inhibit VSMC proliferation and migration, thereby alleviating vascular stenosis. Sal B also inhibits lipid deposition in the subendothelium, inhibits macrophage conversion to foam cells, and reduces macrophage apoptosis, thereby reducing the volume of subendothelial lipid plaques. For some atherosclerosis(AS) complications, such as peripheral artery disease(PAD), Sal B can promote angiogenesis, thereby improving ischemia. It should be pointed out that the conclusions obtained from different experiments are not completely consistent, which needs further research. In addition, previous pharmacokinetics showed that Sal B was poorly absorbed by oral administration, and it was unstable in the stomach, with a large first-pass effect in the liver. Sal B had fast distribution and metabolism in vivo and short drug action time. These affect the bioavailability and biological effects of Sal B, and the development of clinically valuable Sal B non-injectable delivery systems remains a great challenge.

Citation: Yang CK, et al. [Protective mechanism of salvianolic acid B on blood vessels]. [Protective mechanism of salvianolic acid B on blood vessels]. 2023; 48:1176-1185. doi: 10.19540/j.cnki.cjcmm.20221102.707

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37005801/
