PMID: 37000098
Title: Inferior ST segment elevation myocardial infarction combined with hyperextension cervical spine injury: A rare case report.

Abstract: RATIONALE: Inferior ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction (STEMI) is usually caused by acute occlusion of the right coronary artery or left circumflex coronary artery (LCX). Inferior STEMI can cause a high-grade atrioventricular block, sinus bradycardia, and hypotension, leading to hemodynamic collapse, syncope, and disturbance of consciousness.
PATIENT CONCERNS: A case of a sudden disturbance of consciousness after chest tightness as the initial symptom, followed by incomplete paralysis and paresthesia of the extremities due to the collision of the face with the ground.
DIAGNOSES: Coronary angiography showed about 99% of stenosis in the LCX. Cervical spine magnetic resonance imaging showed C2/3, C3/4, C4/5, and C5/6 intervertebral disc herniation with secondary spinal stenosis, spinal cord compression, and edema. The patient was diagnosed with inferior STEMI combined with hyperextension cervical spine injury.
INTERVENTIONS AND OUTCOMES: Bivalirudin was used for anticoagulation, the LCX lesion was pre-expanded with a balloon and the thrombus was removed, and anti-platelet aggregation therapy was given postoperatively. After rehabilitation therapy, hyperextension cervical spine injury improved. There was no recurrence of syncope and precordial pain during the 6-month follow-up.
LESSONS: Hyperextension cervical spine injury has unique hemodynamic features that mimic those associated with inferior STEMI, so a detailed medical history inquiry and physical examination should be carried out to avoid missed diagnoses.

Citation: Li J, et al. Inferior ST segment elevation myocardial infarction combined with hyperextension cervical spine injury: A rare case report. Inferior ST segment elevation myocardial infarction combined with hyperextension cervical spine injury: A rare case report. 2023; 102:e33408. doi: 10.1097/MD.0000000000033408

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37000098/
