PMID: 37004995
Title: Fetal cardiac interventions: First-year experience of a tertiary referral center in Turkey.

Abstract: AIM: To present the first-year experience of fetal cardiac interventions (FCIs) in a tertiary referral hospital and to evaluate the outcomes.
METHODS: This retrospective study consisted of four pregnant women who underwent fetal pulmonary or aortic balloon valvuloplasty between November 2020 and June 2021. The procedures were performed with a percutaneous cardiac puncture under the ultrasonography guidance. Gestational age at intervention, procedural success, complications, and perinatal outcomes were evaluated. Procedural complications defined as fetal bradyarrhythmia requiring treatment, pericardial effusion requiring drainage, balloon rupture, and fetal death. The procedure was considered technically successful if the valve was dilated with a balloon catheter. Ultimately successful procedure was defined as the discharge of infants alive with biventricular circulation.
RESULTS: A total of 5 FCIs attempted between 26 + 3 and 28 + 2 gestational weeks. While the procedure was technically successful in 2 cases with pulmonary stenosis, both attempts were unsuccessful in the fetus with pulmonary atresia. Although the procedure was technically successful in the patient with critical aortic stenosis, it ultimately failed. No fetal death occurred in our series and there were no procedure-related significant maternal complications. However, three interventions were complicated by fetal bradycardia and pericardial effusion necessitating treatment, and balloon rupture cropped up in one case.
CONCLUSION: FCIs may lead to improving the likelihood of a biventricular outcome for selected fetuses. Careful selection of patients and centralization of experience are essential for obtaining favorable outcomes. Operators should be aware of procedural complications. Improved procedural techniques with a lower complication rate will be achieved through advanced medical technology and special balloon catheters.

Citation: Deren O, et al. Fetal cardiac interventions: First-year experience of a tertiary referral center in Turkey. Fetal cardiac interventions: First-year experience of a tertiary referral center in Turkey. 2023; 49:1525-1531. doi: 10.1111/jog.15649

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37004995/
