PMID: 37016861
Title: Biportal Endoscopic Posterior Thoracic Laminectomy for Thoracic Spondylotic Myelopathy Caused by Ossification of the Ligamentum Flavum: Technical Developments and Outcomes.

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: Advanced biportal endoscopic surgery techniques can be used to treat thoracic myelopathy secondary to ossification of the ligamentum flavum (OLF). This case series elaborates on a feasible biportal endoscopic technique for thoracic OLF removal and evaluates clinical and radiological outcomes.
METHODS: A biportal endoscopic posterior thoracic laminectomy was performed to remove the thoracic OLF. Surgical techniques have evolved from inside-out piecemeal removal methods to outside-in en bloc removal methods. Preoperative computed tomography was performed to analyze dural ossification and OLF types. Intraoperative videos were reviewed to observe dural ossification and to determine the surgical method. Neurological outcomes were assessed using the Japanese Orthopaedic Association (JOA) score.
RESULTS: Clinical symptoms and neurological function improved markedly after surgery (JOA score, preoperative: 12.6 ± 1.0, final follow-up: 15.6 ± 1.2). The mean operation time per segment was not short (106.6 ± 38 minutes). At early experience stages, inside-out piecemeal decompression was used and it caused intraoperative spinal cord injury. However, outside-in en bloc decompression technique did not induce neural complications. Postoperative segmental instability and correlated mechanical back pain were not observed.
CONCLUSION: The biportal endoscopic posterior thoracic approach is an attractive surgical option to treat thoracic spondylotic myelopathy secondary to OLF. Piecemeal inside-out decompression can induce irreversible spinal cord injury, especially in the early experience stages. Outside-in decompression is more efficient and safer than inside-out pattern procedures by minimizing dural manipulation. Nonetheless, this technique is technically demanding and should only be performed in selected patients after acquiring abundant experience with endoscopic spine surgeries.

Citation: Kim JY, et al. Biportal Endoscopic Posterior Thoracic Laminectomy for Thoracic Spondylotic Myelopathy Caused by Ossification of the Ligamentum Flavum: Technical Developments and Outcomes. Biportal Endoscopic Posterior Thoracic Laminectomy for Thoracic Spondylotic Myelopathy Caused by Ossification of the Ligamentum Flavum: Technical Developments and Outcomes. 2023; 20:129-140. doi: 10.14245/ns.2346060.030

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37016861/
