PMID: 37010546
Title: Surgical and transcatheter pulmonary valve replacement in patients with repaired tetralogy of Fallot: cardiac magnetic resonance imaging characteristics and morphology of right ventricular outflow tract.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Pulmonary valve replacement is recommended in patients with repaired tetralogy of Fallot based on cardiac magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) criteria. This procedure is performed by surgical or transcatheter approaches.
OBJECTIVE: We aimed to investigate the differences in preprocedural MRI characteristics (volume, function, strain) and morphology of the right ventricular outflow tract and branch pulmonary arteries in patients for whom surgical or transcatheter pulmonary valve replacement was planned.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Cardiac MRI of 166 patients with tetralogy of Fallot were analyzed. Of these, 36 patients for whom pulmonary valve replacement was planned were included. Magnetic resonance imaging characteristics, right ventricular outflow tract morphology, branch pulmonary artery flow distribution and diameter were compared between surgical and transcatheter groups. Spearman correlation and Kruskal-Wallis tests were performed.
RESULTS: Circumferential and radial MRI strain for the right ventricle were lower in the surgical group (P=0.045 and P=0.046, respectively). The diameter of the left pulmonary artery was significantly lower (P=0.021) and branch pulmonary artery flow and diameter ratio were higher (P=0.044 and P = 0.002, respectively) in the transcatheter group. There was a significant correlation between right ventricular outflow tract morphology and right ventricular end-diastolic volume index and global circumferential and radial MRI strain (P=0.046, P=0.046 and P= 0.049, respectively).
CONCLUSION: Preprocedural MRI strain, right-to-left pulmonary artery flow, diameter ratio and morphological features of the right ventricular outflow tract were significantly different between the two groups. A transcatheter approach may be recommended for patients with branch pulmonary artery stenosis, since both pulmonary valve replacement and branch pulmonary artery stenting can be performed in the same session.

Citation: Ozkok S, et al. Surgical and transcatheter pulmonary valve replacement in patients with repaired tetralogy of Fallot: cardiac magnetic resonance imaging characteristics and morphology of right ventricular outflow tract. Surgical and transcatheter pulmonary valve replacement in patients with repaired tetralogy of Fallot: cardiac magnetic resonance imaging characteristics and morphology of right ventricular outflow tract. 2023; 53:1863-1873. doi: 10.1007/s00247-023-05645-2

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37010546/
