PMID: 37019649
Title: Combined Endovascular Antegrade and Direct Retrograde Carotid Artery Stenting for Chronic and Long Segment Common Carotid Artery Occlusion: Technical Note and Review of Literature.

Abstract: Common carotid artery (CCA) occlusion (CCAO) is a rare cause of ischemic stroke and bypass surgery is the common treatment approach. However, safer alternatives should be developed to treat CCAO. A 68-year-old male was diagnosed with left-sided CCAO with decreased left visual acuity due to neck radiation therapy for laryngeal cancer. Recanalization therapy using a pull-through technique was initiated because cerebral blood flow progressively decreased during the follow-up period. First, after a short sheath was inserted into the CCA, the occluded CCA was retrogradely penetrated through the sheath. Second, a micro-guidewire was guided to the aorta from the femoral sheath where it was caught using a snare wire guided from the cervical sheath. Subsequently, the micro-guidewire was gently pulled out from the cervical sheath, penetrated the occluded lesion, and was secured to the femoral and cervical sheaths. Finally, the occluded lesion was dilated using a balloon, and the stent was placed. Five days postprocedure, the patient was discharged uneventfully and exhibited improved left visual acuity. In terms of reliable penetration of obstructive lesions and reduction of embolic and hemorrhagic complications, combined endovascular antegrade and direct retrograde carotid artery stenting is a versatile and minimally invasive treatment option for CCAO.

Citation: Miyake S, et al. Combined Endovascular Antegrade and Direct Retrograde Carotid Artery Stenting for Chronic and Long Segment Common Carotid Artery Occlusion: Technical Note and Review of Literature. Combined Endovascular Antegrade and Direct Retrograde Carotid Artery Stenting for Chronic and Long Segment Common Carotid Artery Occlusion: Technical Note and Review of Literature. 2023; 63:321-326. doi: 10.2176/jns-nmc.2022-0397

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37019649/
