PMID: 37022438
Title: Cerebral hemodynamics in symptomatic anterior circulation intracranial stenosis measured by angiography-based quantitative flow ratio: association with CT perfusion.

Abstract: OBJECTIVES: Cerebral hemodynamics is important for the management of intracranial atherosclerotic stenosis (ICAS). This study aimed to determine the utility of angiography-based quantitative flow ratio (QFR) to reflect cerebral hemodynamics in symptomatic anterior circulation ICAS by evaluating its association with CT perfusion (CTP).
METHODS: Sixty-two patients with unilateral symptomatic stenosis in the intracranial internal carotid artery or middle cerebral artery who received percutaneous transluminal angioplasty (PTA) or PTA with stenting were included. Murray law-based QFR (μQFR) was computed from a single angiographic view. CTP parameters including cerebral blood flow, cerebral blood volume, mean transit time (MTT), and time to peak (TTP) were calculated, and relative values were obtained as the ratio between symptomatic and contralateral hemispheres. Relationships between μQFR and perfusion parameters, and between μQFR and perfusion response after intervention, were analyzed.
RESULTS: Thirty-eight patients had improved perfusion after treatment. μQFR was significantly correlated with relative values of TTP and MTT, with correlation coefficients of  -0.45 and  -0.26, respectively, on a per-patient basis, and  -0.72 and  -0.43, respectively, on a per-vessel basis (all p &lt; 0.05). Sensitivity and specificity for μQFR to diagnose hypoperfusion at a cut-off value of 0.82 were 94.1% and 92.1%, respectively. Multivariate analysis revealed that μQFR<sub>post</sub> (adjusted odds ratio [OR], 1.48; p = 0.002), collateral score (adjusted OR, 6.97; p = 0.01), and current smoking status (adjusted OR, 0.03; p = 0.01) were independently associated with perfusion improvement after treatment.
CONCLUSIONS: μQFR was associated with CTP in patients with symptomatic anterior circulation ICAS and may be a potential marker for real-time hemodynamic evaluation during interventional procedures.
KEY POINTS: • Murray law-based QFR (μQFR) is associated with CT perfusion parameters in intracranial atherosclerotic stenosis and can differentiate hypoperfusion from normal perfusion. • Post-intervention μQFR, collateral score, and current smoking status are independent factors associated with improved perfusion after treatment.

Citation: Suo S, et al. Cerebral hemodynamics in symptomatic anterior circulation intracranial stenosis measured by angiography-based quantitative flow ratio: association with CT perfusion. Cerebral hemodynamics in symptomatic anterior circulation intracranial stenosis measured by angiography-based quantitative flow ratio: association with CT perfusion. 2023; 33:5687-5697. doi: 10.1007/s00330-023-09557-5

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37022438/
