PMID: 37021363
Title: CFD analysis of the hyper-viscous effects on blood flow across abdominal aortic aneurysm in COVID patients: multiphysics approach.

Abstract: Recent research has shown that individuals suffering from COVID-19 are accommodating an elevated level of blood viscosity due to the morphological changes in blood cells. As viscosity is a major flow parameter influencing the flow across a stenosis or an aneurysm, the examination of the significance of hyperviscosity in COVID patients is imperative in arterial pathologies. In this research, we have considered a patient-specific case in which the aneurysm is located along the abdominal aortal walls. Recent research on the side effects of COVID-19 voiced out the various effects on the circulatory system of humans. Also, as abdominal aneurysms exist very often among individuals, causing the death of 150-200 million every year, the hyper-viscous effects of blood on the flow across the diseased aorta are explored by considering the elevated viscosity levels. In vitro explorations contribute considerably to the clinical methods and treatments to be regarded. The objective of the present inquest is to research the flow field in aneurysmatic-COVID-affected patients considering the elastic nature of vessel walls, using the arbitrary Lagrangian-Eulerian approach. The study supports the various clinical findings that voiced the detrimental effects associated with blood hyperviscosity. The simulation results obtained, by solving the fluid mechanics' equations coupled with the solid mechanics' equations, employing a FEM solver suggest that the elevated stress imparted by the hyper-viscous flows on the walls of the aneurysmal aorta can trigger the fastening of the aneurysmal sac enlargement or rupture.

Citation: S SN, et al. CFD analysis of the hyper-viscous effects on blood flow across abdominal aortic aneurysm in COVID patients: multiphysics approach. CFD analysis of the hyper-viscous effects on blood flow across abdominal aortic aneurysm in COVID patients: multiphysics approach. 2024; 27:570-586. doi: 10.1080/10255842.2023.2194474

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37021363/
