PMID: 37038226
Title: Surgical intervention of myocardial bridge combined coronary artery disease: could a combination of supra-arterial myotomy and CABG be a better option?

Abstract: BACKGROUND: The treatment of coronary artery disease combined with severe atherosclerotic stenosis proximal to a left anterior descending artery myocardial bridge (LAD-MB) is still controversial. This study aimed to analyze the outcomes of surgical intervention in patients with severe atherosclerotic stenosis proximal to a LAD-MB.
METHODS: We retrospectively reviewed all patients with coronary artery disease combined with severe atherosclerotic stenosis proximal to the LAD-MB. The enrolled criteria were systolic compression of LAD more than or equal to 50% and atherosclerotic stenosis proximal to the LAD-MB more than or equal to 70%. All patients suffered from anginal symptoms refractory to medical therapy. All patients received supra-arterial myotomy and coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG) procedures. Clinical characteristics, intraoperative findings, and postoperative outcomes were evaluated.
RESULTS: Between 2004 and 2021, sixteen patients underwent supra-arterial myotomy and CABG procedure. The compression and length of LAD-MB were 63 ± 17.9% and 25.9 ± 16.3 mm, respectively. Of the 16 patients, one patient had a LAD-MB and proximal coronary stenosis, and 15 patients had LAD-MBs and multivessel lesions. All patients survived and recovered uneventfully without in-hospital mortality or severe complications. The median transfusion amount of red blood cells in the operation was 2 units, and no patients required unplanned reoperation for bleeding. The average length of intensive care unit stay was 2.74 days. Fifteen patients were followed up for 6-146.1 months (mean 45.3 ± 42.9 months). One patient had a recurrence of angina pectoris one year after surgery, and 14 patients had no symptoms of myocardial ischemia during the follow-up period. Significant improvement in symptoms and quality of life using the Seattle Angina Questionnaire assessment was observed in all five categories after surgery (p < 0.01).
CONCLUSIONS: Based on the results, supra-arterial myotomy and concomitant bypass surgery may be a better option for the treatment of LAD-MB combined with severe proximal stenosis.

Citation: Xu XR, et al. Surgical intervention of myocardial bridge combined coronary artery disease: could a combination of supra-arterial myotomy and CABG be a better option?. Surgical intervention of myocardial bridge combined coronary artery disease: could a combination of supra-arterial myotomy and CABG be a better option?. 2023; 18:123. doi: 10.1186/s13019-023-02251-z

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37038226/
