PMID: 37032100
Title: [Carcinoma in situ arising in adenomyomatous hyperplasia of the ampulla of Vater: the first case report].

Abstract: A man in his 70s was admitted to our hospital due to jaundice and upper abdominal pain. Laboratory findings indicated elevated serum hepatobiliary enzyme and amylase levels. Contrast-enhanced computed tomography revealed smooth wall thickening of the terminal bile duct (tBD) with a faintly enhanced inner line. ERCP revealed stenosis from the tBD to the ampulla of Vater (AV) with upstream dilatation. Intraductal ultrasound (IDUS) circumferentially revealed a thickened wall preserving a three-layered structure throughout the same region. Furthermore, a thick innermost hyperechoic layer was identified in the bile duct portion of the AV (Ab). Findings suggestive of adenocarcinoma were obtained from the tissue samples from the biliary stricture using biopsy forceps. Thus, pancreatoduodenectomy was performed. A pathological examination revealed a thickened AV wall spreading over the tBD with hyperplasia of the glands and smooth muscle fibers. In addition, low-grade biliary intraepithelial neoplasia (BilIN) was scattered throughout the lesion, and high-grade BilIN was partly observed in the peribiliary glands of the Ab. Based on these results, a diagnosis of carcinoma in situ arising in adenomyomatous hyperplasia (ADMH) of the AV was made. To date, there are no reports on ADMH-associated carcinoma of the BD or AV. We here report this original case with the IDUS findings, which are presumed to reflect the histologic features of ADMH showing ductal proliferation surrounded by smooth muscle fibers. Also, we discuss the process through which carcinoma arises from ADMH in AV.

Citation: Wakabayashi T, et al. [Carcinoma in situ arising in adenomyomatous hyperplasia of the ampulla of Vater: the first case report]. [Carcinoma in situ arising in adenomyomatous hyperplasia of the ampulla of Vater: the first case report]. 2023; 120:355-363. doi: 10.11405/nisshoshi.120.355

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37032100/
