PMID: 37038581
Title: Differential Rates of Lower Gastrointestinal Bleeding and Other Outcomes in Colorectal Cancer Patients With Aortic Stenosis.

Abstract: Background Aortic stenosis (AS) has been established as a precipitating factor in the development of colonic angiodysplasia, resulting in lower gastrointestinal bleeding (LGIB). While the association between AS and LGIB, termed "Heyde syndrome," has been examined extensively, few studies assess the impact of comorbid AS on rates of LGIB in patients with colorectal cancer (CRC). Our goal is to examine this association.  Methods Patients hospitalized from 2001 to 2013 diagnosed with CRC were identified via ICD-9 codes, further stratified by a diagnosis of AS. Continuous and categorical variables were analyzed by independent sample t-tests and chi-squared analyses respectively. Assessed outcomes included mortality, length of stay (LOS), hospital costs, rates of LGIB, colonic obstruction, colonic perforation, iron-deficiency anemia (IDA), and colectomy. Multivariate analysis via binary logistic regression was utilized to control confounding variables. Results Patients with CRC and AS had higher rates of mortality, lower gastrointestinal bleeding, iron deficiency anemia, and colectomy, while those without AS had higher rates of colonic obstruction. Length of stay and total hospital charges were higher in patients with AS.  Discussion CRC outcomes were worse in patients with AS. This could be due to higher rates of LGIB secondary to the prevalence of angiodysplasia among AS patients. More retrospective studies are required to assess the impact of comorbid AS in patients with CRC.

Citation: Khrais A, et al. Differential Rates of Lower Gastrointestinal Bleeding and Other Outcomes in Colorectal Cancer Patients With Aortic Stenosis. Differential Rates of Lower Gastrointestinal Bleeding and Other Outcomes in Colorectal Cancer Patients With Aortic Stenosis. 2023; 15:e35926. doi: 10.7759/cureus.35926

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37038581/
