PMID: 37039366
Title: Trileaflet Semilunar Valve Reconstruction: Acute Porcine in Vivo Evaluation.

Abstract: Objective: The surgical treatment of malformed semilunar valves in congenital heart defects is challenging in terms of providing both longevity and the potential to grow with the recipient. We investigated a new surgical technique "Trileaflet Semilunar Valve Reconstruction" in an acute porcine model, a technique with geometrical properties that could remain sufficient and allow for some growth with the child. Methods: An acute 60-kg porcine model was used. With echocardiography, baseline pulmonary valvular geometry and hemodynamics were investigated. On cardiopulmonary bypass, the pulmonary leaflets were explanted, and the Trileaflet Semilunar Valve Reconstruction was performed with customized homograft-treated pericardial neo-leaflets. Off bypass, hemodynamics was reassessed. Results: Twelve animals were investigated. The neo-valves were found sufficient in ten animals and with minimal regurgitation in two animals. The neo-valve had a peak gradient of 3 ± 2 mm Hg with a peak velocity of 0.8 ± 0.2 m/s. The coaptation in the neo-valve had a mean increase of 4 ± 3 mm, P &lt; .001. The neo-valve had a windmill shape in the echocardiographic short-axis view, and the neo-leaflets billowed at the annular plane in the long-axis view. Conclusions: In this acute porcine model, the neo-valve had no clinically significant regurgitation or stenosis. The neo-valve had an increased coaptation, a windmill shape, and leaflets that billowed at the annular plane. These geometric findings may allow for sustained sufficiency as the annular and pulmonary artery dimension increase with the child's growth. Further long-term studies should be performed to evaluate the efficacy and the growth potential.

Citation: Hanse LC, et al. Trileaflet Semilunar Valve Reconstruction: Acute Porcine in Vivo Evaluation. Trileaflet Semilunar Valve Reconstruction: Acute Porcine in Vivo Evaluation. 2023; 14:509-515. doi: 10.1177/21501351231166662

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37039366/
