PMID: 37038423
Title: The effect of expandable versus static lordotic interbody implants in minimally invasive spine surgery: patient reported outcomes, sagittal alignment, and restoration of disc height and foraminal height.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Pain and disability due to age-related spinal disorders are increasing due to a more active population placing greater demands on their musculoskeletal system. For patients requiring surgery, spinal fusion is typically indicated. Interbody fusion cages improve fusion rates and restore lordosis, disc height, and foraminal height. Static cages are offered in multiple conformations to account for anatomic variability; however, they have issues related to implant subsidence and loss of lordosis. Expandable cages were developed to address these drawbacks.
METHODS: Patients treated with either static or expandable transforaminal lumbar interbody fusion devices (ProLift® Expandable Spacer System) for the treatment of spondylolisthesis, degenerative disc disease, spinal stenosis, disc herniation, or degenerative scoliosis at L4-L5 or L5-S1 were chosen from retrospective data. Outcomes included radiographic and spinopelvic changes, patient-reported outcomes, and incidence of non-union and revision surgery.
RESULTS: One hundred patients were included (Static: 50; Expandable: 50). Demographics between groups were similar, with some differences in comorbidities and spinal disease diagnosis. Radiographically, changes in disc height, foraminal height, and lordosis were significantly improved in the Expandable group up to 2 years (P<0.001). Improvements in patient reported outcomes were more favorable in the Expandable group.
CONCLUSIONS: In patients who underwent transforaminal lumbar spinal fusion via minimally invasive surgery, the Expandable device group demonstrated significantly improved radiographic and patient reported outcomes compared to a static cage over 2 years.

Citation: Kucharzyk DW, et al. The effect of expandable versus static lordotic interbody implants in minimally invasive spine surgery: patient reported outcomes, sagittal alignment, and restoration of disc height and foraminal height. The effect of expandable versus static lordotic interbody implants in minimally invasive spine surgery: patient reported outcomes, sagittal alignment, and restoration of disc height and foraminal height. 2023; 9:39-53. doi: 10.21037/jss-22-55

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37038423/
