PMID: 37042077
Title: Time for change? Radiologists highly concordant assessing change in stenoses on follow-up cervical spine MRI.

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: There is considerable variability among radiologists when grading spinal canal and foraminal stenosis on MRI. However, to date, studies have not evaluated radiologists' agreement when assessing interval change in cervical spine stenoses. The purpose of this study was to evaluate radiologists' concordance for change in cervical spine stenoses on follow-up MRIs, a major indication for these exams.
METHODS: Initial and follow-up cervical MRIs were retrospectively reviewed by three blinded radiologists. Spinal canal and foramina from C1 through T1 were rated for interval change and concordance between the blinded raters was calculated. The original MRI reports were also reviewed for specific language assessing interval change on the follow-up exams.
RESULTS: 40 cervical MRI exams and 40 corresponding MRI follow-ups were assessed. Agreement for interval change in spinal canal and foraminal stenosis was near perfect amongst all readers (kappa values of 0.78-0.94). 97% of the original MRI reports used the standard severity scale. 68% of follow-up MRI reports specifically assessed for change.
DISCUSSION: Blinded radiologists had high agreement when assessing for change in spinal canal and foraminal stenosis on follow-up cervical spine MRIs. Because of inter-rater variability in stenosis grading, reports that do not emphasize change assessment, may imply change that is not truly present. For clarity and consistency in reporting of cervical spine stenoses, change assessment should be emphasized and added to structured reporting templates.

Citation: Costello JE, et al. Time for change? Radiologists highly concordant assessing change in stenoses on follow-up cervical spine MRI. Time for change? Radiologists highly concordant assessing change in stenoses on follow-up cervical spine MRI. 2023; 36:588-592. doi: 10.1177/19714009231163562

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37042077/
