PMID: 37055850
Title: Evaluation of safety and efficacy of autologous oral mucosa-derived epithelial cell sheet transplantation for prevention of anastomotic restenosis in congenital esophageal atresia and congenital esophageal stenosis.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: We performed the first autologous oral mucosa-derived epithelial cell sheet transplantation therapy in a patient with refractory postoperative anastomotic stricture in congenital esophageal atresia (CEA) and confirmed its safety. In this study, patients with CEA and congenital esophageal stenosis were newly added as subjects to further evaluate the safety and efficacy of cell sheet transplantation therapy.
METHODS: Epithelial cell sheets were prepared from the oral mucosa of the subjects and transplanted into esophageal tears created by endoscopic balloon dilatation (EBD). The safety of the cell sheets was confirmed by quality control testing, and the safety of the transplantation treatment was confirmed by 48-week follow-up examinations.
RESULTS: Subject 1 had a stenosis resected because the frequency of EBD did not decrease after the second transplantation. Histopathological examination of the resected stenosis revealed marked thickening of the submucosal layer. Subjects 2 and 3 did not require EBD for 48 weeks after transplantation, during which time they were able to maintain a normal diet by mouth.
CONCLUSIONS: Subjects 2 and 3 were free of EBD for a long period of time after transplantation, confirming that cell sheet transplantation therapy is clearly effective in some cases. In the future, it is necessary to study more cases; develop new technologies such as an objective index to evaluate the efficacy of cell sheet transplantation therapy and a device to achieve more accurate transplantation; identify cases in which the current therapy is effective; and find the optimal timing of transplantation; and clarify the mechanism by which the current therapy improves stenosis.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: UMIN, UMIN000034566, registered 19 October 2018, https://upload.umin.ac.jp/cgi-open-bin/ctr_e/ctr_view.cgi?recptno=R000039393 .

Citation: Fujino A, et al. Evaluation of safety and efficacy of autologous oral mucosa-derived epithelial cell sheet transplantation for prevention of anastomotic restenosis in congenital esophageal atresia and congenital esophageal stenosis. Evaluation of safety and efficacy of autologous oral mucosa-derived epithelial cell sheet transplantation for prevention of anastomotic restenosis in congenital esophageal atresia and congenital esophageal stenosis. 2023; 14:86. doi: 10.1186/s13287-023-03321-8

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37055850/
