PMID: 37060702
Title: An ultrasound-exclusive non-invasive computational diagnostic framework for personalized cardiology of aortic valve stenosis.

Abstract: Aortic stenosis (AS) is an acute and chronic cardiovascular disease and If left untreated, 50% of these patients will die within two years of developing symptoms. AS is characterized as the stiffening of the aortic valve leaflets which restricts their motion and prevents the proper opening under transvalvular pressure. Assessments of the valve dynamics, if available, would provide valuable information about the patient's state of cardiac deterioration as well as heart recovery and can have incredible impacts on patient care, planning interventions and making critical clinical decisions with life-threatening risks. Despite remarkable advancements in medical imaging, there are no clinical tools available to quantify valve dynamics invasively or noninvasively. In this study, we developed a highly innovative ultrasound-based non-invasive computational framework that can function as a diagnostic tool to assess valve dynamics (e.g. transient 3-D distribution of stress and displacement, 3-D deformed shape of leaflets, geometric orifice area and angular positions of leaflets) for patients with AS at no risk to the patients. Such a diagnostic tool considers the local valve dynamics and the global circulatory system to provide a platform for testing the intervention scenarios and evaluating their effects. We used clinical data of 12 patients with AS not only to validate the proposed framework but also to demonstrate its diagnostic abilities by providing novel analyses and interpretations of clinical data in both pre and post intervention states. We used transthoracic echocardiogram (TTE) data for the developments and transesophageal echocardiography (TEE) data for validation.

Citation: Bahadormanesh N, et al. An ultrasound-exclusive non-invasive computational diagnostic framework for personalized cardiology of aortic valve stenosis. An ultrasound-exclusive non-invasive computational diagnostic framework for personalized cardiology of aortic valve stenosis. 2023; 87:102795. doi: 10.1016/j.media.2023.102795

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37060702/
