PMID: 37069787
Title: Are ureterolysis for deep endometriosis really all the same? An anatomical classification proposal for ureterolysis: A single-center experience.

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: Ureteral endometriosis has an incidence of 0.1% to 1%. The type of surgery required is either conservative (ureterolysis) or radical treatment, depending on the degree of ureter infiltration. The incidence of intraoperative and postoperative complications is heterogeneous. Thus, the aim of the current study was to propose a classification of ureterolysis based on the anatomical structure of the ureter and differing complication rates with procedures.
METHODS: A total of 139 ureterolysis procedures were included in the study. Patients were divided into three groups according to the depth of ureterolysis required. Differences were recorded across the three types of ureterolysis in terms of intraoperative and postoperative complications.
RESULTS: The incidence of ureteral fistula was reported in 0.7% of cases, with postoperative ureteral stenosis in 2% of type 2 ureterolysis. In the case of type 3 ureterolysis, after conservative procedures, 52.9% of patients required an ureteroneocystostomy to solve the ureteral stenosis.
CONCLUSION: The risk of ureteral injury and ureteroneocystostomy after conservative procedures appears to be associated with type 3 ureterolysis, probably due to excessive devascularization, secondary to the incision of adventitia. Obviously, these data should be confirmed through a prospective study of a larger number, but our proposed classification can provide the basis for making data from future studies more comparable.

Citation: Ianieri MM, et al. Are ureterolysis for deep endometriosis really all the same? An anatomical classification proposal for ureterolysis: A single-center experience. Are ureterolysis for deep endometriosis really all the same? An anatomical classification proposal for ureterolysis: A single-center experience. 2023; 162:1010-1019. doi: 10.1002/ijgo.14790

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37069787/
