PMID: 37079960
Title: Evaluation of vessel-wall contrast-enhancement on high-resolution MRI in European patients with Moyamoya disease.

Abstract: OBJECTIVES: Data regarding MR vessel-wall imaging (VWI) in patients with Moyamoya disease (MMD) is sparse, particularly in non-asian cohorts. We contribute data regarding the frequency of vessel wall contrast-enhancement (VW-CE) and its potential clinical significance in a European patient group.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Patients with a diagnosis of MMD who were examined by VWI were included in the study. VW-CE of stenoocclusive lesions of the terminal internal carotid artery and/or its proximal branches was rated qualitatively. Changes of VW-CE on available follow-up were recorded. VW-CE was correlated with diffusion-restricted lesions and magnetic resonance angiography (MRA) findings.
RESULTS: Eleven patients (eight female, three male) were included. Twenty-eight stenoocclusive lesions were analyzed, of which 16 showed VW-CE (57.1%). VW-CE was mostly concentric (n=15), rather than eccentric (n=1). In all three patients in whom follow-up VWI was available, changes of VW-CE were documented. Diffusion-restricted lesions were more frequently related to stenoocclusive lesions with VW-CE (n=9) than without VW-CE (n=2), bordering statistical significance. The affected arteries were assessed as stenotic and as occluded in 14 cases each and VW-CE was seen significantly more often in stenotic (n=12) than in occluded arteries (n=4). No correlation was found between the presence of VW-CE and moyamoya stages determined by MRA.
CONCLUSIONS: Our data suggest that concentric VW-CE is a relatively frequent finding in European MMD patients. VW-CE may change over time and occur in certain stages, possibly representing "active stenosing". Larger studies are needed to validate these findings and determine the clinical relevance of VW-CE in MMD.

Citation: Patzig DMM, et al. Evaluation of vessel-wall contrast-enhancement on high-resolution MRI in European patients with Moyamoya disease. Evaluation of vessel-wall contrast-enhancement on high-resolution MRI in European patients with Moyamoya disease. 2023; 32:107135. doi: 10.1016/j.jstrokecerebrovasdis.2023.107135

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37079960/
