PMID: 37072824
Title: Craniofacial growth and function in achondroplasia: a multimodal 3D study on 15 patients.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Achondroplasia is the most frequent FGFR3-related chondrodysplasia, leading to rhizomelic dwarfism, craniofacial anomalies, stenosis of the foramen magnum, and sleep apnea. Craniofacial growth and its correlation with obstructive sleep apnea syndrome has not been assessed in achondroplasia. In this study, we provide a multimodal analysis of craniofacial growth and anatomo-functional correlations between craniofacial features and the severity of obstructive sleep apnea syndrome.
METHODS: A multimodal study was performed based on a paediatric cohort of 15 achondroplasia patients (mean age, 7.8 ± 3.3 years), including clinical and sleep study data, 2D cephalometrics, and 3D geometric morphometry analyses, based on CT-scans (mean age at CT-scan: patients, 4.9 ± 4.9 years; controls, 3.7 ± 4.2 years).
RESULTS: Craniofacial phenotype was characterized by maxillo-zygomatic retrusion, deep nasal root, and prominent forehead. 2D cephalometric studies showed constant maxillo-mandibular retrusion, with excessive vertical dimensions of the lower third of the face, and modifications of cranial base angles. All patients with available CT-scan had premature fusion of skull base synchondroses. 3D morphometric analyses showed more severe craniofacial phenotypes associated with increasing patient age, predominantly regarding the midface-with increased maxillary retrusion in older patients-and the skull base-with closure of the spheno-occipital angle. At the mandibular level, both the corpus and ramus showed shape modifications with age, with shortened anteroposterior mandibular length, as well as ramus and condylar region lengths. We report a significant correlation between the severity of maxillo-mandibular retrusion and obstructive sleep apnea syndrome (p < 0.01).
CONCLUSIONS: Our study shows more severe craniofacial phenotypes at older ages, with increased maxillomandibular retrusion, and demonstrates a significant anatomo-functional correlation between the severity of midface and mandible craniofacial features and obstructive sleep apnea syndrome.

Citation: Morice A, et al. Craniofacial growth and function in achondroplasia: a multimodal 3D study on 15 patients. Craniofacial growth and function in achondroplasia: a multimodal 3D study on 15 patients. 2023; 18:88. doi: 10.1186/s13023-023-02664-y

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37072824/
