PMID: 37070580
Title: Presumptive Diagnosis in Tele-Health Laryngology: A Multi-Center Observational Study.

Abstract: OBJECTIVES: Early in the COVID-19 pandemic, outpatient visits were adapted for the virtual setting, forcing laryngologists to presume certain diagnoses without the aid of laryngoscopy, solely based on history and the limited physical exam available via video visit. This study aims to examine the accuracy of presumptive diagnoses made via telemedicine, compared to subsequent in-person follow up, where endoscopic examination could confirm or refute suspected diagnoses.
METHODS: A retrospective chart review was conducted of 38 patients evaluated for voice-related issues at NYU Langone Health and the University of California-San Francisco. Presumptive diagnoses at the initial telemedicine encounter were noted, along with diagnostic cues used for clinical reasoning and recommended treatment plans. These presumptive diagnoses were compared to diagnoses and plans established following laryngoscopy at follow-up in-person visits.
RESULTS: After laryngoscopy at the first in-person visit, 38% of presumptive diagnoses changed, as did 37% of treatment plans. The accuracy varied among conditions. Muscle tension dysphonia and Reinke's edema were accurately diagnosed without laryngoscopy, but other conditions, including vocal fold paralysis and subglottic stenosis, were not initially suspected, relying on laryngoscopy for diagnosis.
CONCLUSIONS: While some laryngologic conditions may be reasonably identified without in-person examination, laryngoscopy remains central to definitive diagnosis and treatment. Telemedicine can increase access to care, but it may provide more utility as a screening tool, triaging which patients should present more urgently for in-person laryngoscopy.
LEVEL OF EVIDENCE: 4.

Citation: Montalbaron MB, et al. Presumptive Diagnosis in Tele-Health Laryngology: A Multi-Center Observational Study. Presumptive Diagnosis in Tele-Health Laryngology: A Multi-Center Observational Study. 2023; 132:1511-1519. doi: 10.1177/00034894231165811

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37070580/
