PMID: 37073697
Title: A novel modified endoscopic method for treating patients with refractory gastro-esophageal disease and moderate hiatus hernia.

Abstract: BACKGROUND AND AIM: endoscopic anti-reflux mucosectomy (ARMS) is effective for patients with refractory gastroesophageal reflux disease (rGERD) with small hiatus hernia. However, evidence of its applicability in patients with larger hernia sac is lacking. This study aimed to evaluate the efficiency and safety of ARMS for patients with rGERD with moderate hiatus hernia (3-5 cm) and determine the appropriate resection range.
METHODS: thirty-six patients with rGERD with moderate hiatus hernia were enrolled. They were divided into 2/3 and 3/4 circumferential mucosal resection groups. The patients received modified ARMS. The gastroesophageal reflux disease questionnaire (GERD-Q) and DeMeester scores, endoscopy, 24-h pH monitoring results and lower esophageal sphincter (LES) resting pressure were compared pre- and post-procedure. Therapeutic effects and complications of the two mucosal resection ranges were analyzed.
RESULTS: thirty-six patients were enrolled in this study, all of whom had undergone ARMS surgery with at least six-month follow-up. In the 2/3 circumferential mucosal resection group, the GERD-Q score, acid exposure time (AET) and DeMeester score improved significantly compared with those before surgery (p < 0.001). In the 3/4 circumferential mucosal resection group, the GERD-Q score, AET and DeMeeter score worsened after six months (p < 0.001), but there was no difference between the two groups (p > 0.05). In both groups, there was no significant improvement in the ratio of esophagitis grade C/D and LES resting pressure after treatment compared with the baseline values (p > 0.05), and no postoperative bleeding or perforation was observed. The incidence of postoperative esophageal stenosis in the 2/3 circumferential mucosal resection group was lower than that in the 3/4 circumferential mucosal resection group (p = 0.041).
CONCLUSION: modified ARMS is effective for patients with rGERD with moderate hiatus hernia, but it cannot significantly increase the postoperative resting pressure of the LES. The 2/3 circumferential mucosal resection can reduce the incidence of postoperative esophageal stenosis.

Citation: Gao SJ, et al. A novel modified endoscopic method for treating patients with refractory gastro-esophageal disease and moderate hiatus hernia. A novel modified endoscopic method for treating patients with refractory gastro-esophageal disease and moderate hiatus hernia. 2023; 115:496-503. doi: 10.17235/reed.2023.9422/2022

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37073697/
