PMID: 37073146
Title: Potential Biomarkers and Therapeutic Targets: Inflammation and Oxidative Stress in Left Carotid Artery Stenosis with Coronary Artery Disease.

Abstract: INTRODUCTION: Patients with left carotid artery atherosclerotic stenosis have an increased ischemic stroke risk. Left carotid stenosis, the most common cause of the transient ischemic attack, is related to a higher risk of acute stroke. Left carotid artery stenosis is also associated with cerebral artery infarction. The significant coronary stenosis promotes ST-segment elevation myocardial infarctions. The severe coronary stenosis plays an important role in development and progression of myocardial infarction. However, the dynamic changes of circulating oxidative stress and inflammatory markers in the carotid stenosis combined with coronary artery stenosis are not clear, and it also remains unknown whether mark of oxidative stress and inflammation are potential therapeutic targets for carotid stenosis combined with coronary artery stenosis.
AIM: This study aims to explore the effects of oxidative stress combined with an inflammatory response on left carotid artery stenosis with coronary artery disease in patients.
METHODS: We, therefore, tested the hypothesis that levels of markers of oxidative stress and inflammation are associated with coexistent severe carotid and coronary artery stenosis in patients. We measured the circulating levels of malondialdehyde (MDA), oxidized low-density lipoprotein (OX-LDL), homocysteine (Hcy), F2- isoprostanes (F2-IsoPs), tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-α), high-sensitivity C-reactive protein (hs-CRP), prostaglandin E2 (PG-E2) and interferon-gamma (IFN-γ) in patients with combined carotid and coronary artery severe stenosis. We also assessed the relationships among oxidative stress, inflammation, and severe stenosis of the carotid with a coronary artery in patients.
RESULTS: Levels of MDA, OX-LDL, Hcy, F2-IsoPs, TNF-α, hs-CRP, PG-E2, and IFN-γ were remarkably increased (P < 0.001) in patients with combined carotid and coronary artery severe stenosis. High levels of oxidative stress and inflammation may be related to severe stenosis of the carotid with coronary arteries in patients.
CONCLUSION: Our observations indicated that measurements of oxidative stress and inflammatory markers may be valuable for the assessment of the degree of carotid with coronary artery stenosis. The biomarkers of oxidative stress and inflammatory response may become therapeutic targets for carotid artery stenosis with coronary artery stenosis in patients.

Citation: Li X, et al. Potential Biomarkers and Therapeutic Targets: Inflammation and Oxidative Stress in Left Carotid Artery Stenosis with Coronary Artery Disease. Potential Biomarkers and Therapeutic Targets: Inflammation and Oxidative Stress in Left Carotid Artery Stenosis with Coronary Artery Disease. 2023; 29:966-979. doi: 10.2174/1381612829666230417100144

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37073146/
