PMID: 37075500
Title: A successful case of patch angioplasty with bovine pericardium XenoSure® to the common femoral artery after endarterectomy.

Abstract: INTRODUCTION AND IMPORTANCE: The number of patients with chronic limb-threatening ischemia has increased in recent years. Herein, we report a rare case of angioplasty with a bovine pericardial patch in a patient with severe stenosis of the common femoral artery.
CASE PRESENTATION: We report a case of a 73-year-old female with intermittent claudication. Ankle-brachial index (ABI) measurements showed a significant decrease of 0.52 on the left, and angiography revealed total occlusion on the left common femoral artery (CFA). Considering additional skin incisions, postoperative wound infection, and potential graft sampling, endarterectomy of the left CFA and patch angioplasty with the bovine pericardium (XenoSure®) were performed. The operative computed tomography showed no stenosis and the ABI improved from 0.52 to 1.15. Additionally, no stenosis, calcification, or dilatation was observed during the follow-up one year after the operation.
CLINICAL DISCUSSION: Various types of peripheral arterial repair were performed after endarterectomy. Autologous vein grafts and vascular prostheses are frequently used considering the background of each patient. Using bovine pericardium over other devices has several advantages, including no additional skin incisions to obtain the patches, resistance to infection, no oozing from the device itself, less bleeding from the suture site, and ease of hemostasis after the puncture under additional endovascular treatment. This case may be a good implication when deciding which device to use in complicated patients.
CONCLUSION: This case provides valuable insight into successful patch angioplasty after endarterectomy without any complications, highlighting the utility of XenoSure® in the treatment of this disease.

Citation: Uehara H, et al. A successful case of patch angioplasty with bovine pericardium XenoSure® to the common femoral artery after endarterectomy. A successful case of patch angioplasty with bovine pericardium XenoSure® to the common femoral artery after endarterectomy. 2023; 106:108209. doi: 10.1016/j.ijscr.2023.108209

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37075500/
