PMID: 37070150
Title: Evaluation of ocular blood flow in the assessment of symptomatic carotid stenosis.

Abstract: BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: The degree of internal carotid artery (ICA) stenosis determined by criteria from the North American Symptomatic Carotid Endarterectomy Trial (NASCET) is not the most accurate index to assess distal flow compromise. Distal ICA perfusion is also determined by factors such as tandem carotid stenosis and collateral circulation. Quantification of end-organ ocular perfusion using non-invasive laser speckle flowgraphy (LSFG) may provide insights into distal ICA flow. This study prospectively assessed the degree of ICA flow using LSFG.
METHODS: Eighteen patients with symptomatic carotid stenosis underwent LSFG evaluation. LSFG was used to extract ocular blood flow metrics recorded simultaneously in the retina, choroid, and optic nerve head. The following ocular flow parameters were measured with LSFG: mean blur rate (MBR), flow acceleration index (FAI), and rising rate (RR). Syngo iFlow perfusion imaging was used to objectively quantify contrast flow in the ICA and brain parenchyma during digital subtraction angiography. Time to peak (TTP) and contrast delay were extracted from seven different regions of interest (ROIs).
RESULTS: MBR, FAI, and RR were correlated with NASCET degree of stenosis. FAI and RR also improved after stenting. TTP improved after stenting in three ROIs. A moderate negative correlation was observed between FAI and contrast delay.
CONCLUSIONS: LSFG non-invasively quantifies end-organ blood flow distal to the ICA origin. LSFG metrics have the potential to quantify end-organ perfusion and determine if a proximal carotid stenosis is symptomatic.

Citation: Jones MT, et al. Evaluation of ocular blood flow in the assessment of symptomatic carotid stenosis. Evaluation of ocular blood flow in the assessment of symptomatic carotid stenosis. 2023; (unknown volume):15910199231169844. doi: 10.1177/15910199231169844

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37070150/
