PMID: 37071162
Title: MRI texture analysis of T2-weighted images is preferred over magnetization transfer imaging for readily longitudinal quantification of gut fibrosis.

Abstract: OBJECTIVES: To investigate the value of magnetization transfer (MT) MRI and texture analysis (TA) of T2-weighted MR images (T2WI) in the assessment of intestinal fibrosis in a mouse model.
METHODS: Chronic colitis was induced in mice by cyclic administration of dextran sodium sulphate (DSS) resulting in chronic inflammation and progressive bowel fibrosis. Mice underwent 7-T MR imaging at various time points. Bowel wall MT ratio (MTR) and textural features (skewness, kurtosis, entropy), extracted by a filtration histogram technique, were correlated with histopathology. Performance of both techniques were validated using antifibrotic therapy. Finally, a retrospective study was conducted in five patients with Crohn's disease (CD) who underwent bowel surgery.
RESULTS: MTR and texture entropy correlated with histopathological fibrosis (r = .85 and .81, respectively). Entropy was superior to MTR for monitoring bowel fibrosis in the presence of coexisting inflammation (linear regression R2 = .93 versus R2 = .01). Furthermore, texture entropy was able to assess antifibrotic therapy response (placebo mice versus treated mice at endpoint scan; Δmean = 0.128, p &lt; .0001). An increase in entropy was indicative of fibrosis accumulation in human CD strictures (inflammation: 1.29; mixed strictures: 1.4 and 1.48; fibrosis: 1.73 and 1.9).
CONCLUSION: MT imaging and TA of T2WI can both noninvasively detect established intestinal fibrosis in a mouse model. However, TA is especially useful for the longitudinal quantification of fibrosis in mixed inflammatory-fibrotic tissue, as well as for antifibrotic treatment response evaluation. This accessible post-processing technique merits further validation as the benefits for clinical practice as well as antifibrotic trial design would be numerous.
KEY POINTS: • Magnetization transfer MRI and texture analysis of T2-weighted MR images can detect established bowel fibrosis in an animal model of gut fibrosis. • Texture entropy is able to identify and monitor bowel fibrosis progression in an inflammatory context and can assess the response to antifibrotic treatment. • A proof-of-concept study in five patients with Crohn's disease suggests that texture entropy can detect and grade fibrosis in human intestinal strictures.

Citation: De Kock I, et al. MRI texture analysis of T2-weighted images is preferred over magnetization transfer imaging for readily longitudinal quantification of gut fibrosis. MRI texture analysis of T2-weighted images is preferred over magnetization transfer imaging for readily longitudinal quantification of gut fibrosis. 2023; 33:5943-5952. doi: 10.1007/s00330-023-09624-x

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37071162/
