PMID: 37088101
Title: Clinical features and management of keratoconjunctivitis associated with inadequate tear drainage.

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: To describe clinical features and management of toxic keratoconjunctivitis associated with punctal and (or) canaliculus stenosis (toxic soup syndrome).
DESIGN: Retrospective observational case series.
METHODS: Electronic medical record database search for the keywords "toxic soup syndrome" and retrospective chart review were performed. Thirty-five eyes of 25 patients were seen at a tertiary cornea clinic between January 2017 and December 2021. Sex, age, distance-corrected visual acuity, topical medications, symptoms, clinical signs, and outcomes after medical and surgical interventions were analyzed. The main outcome measured was improvement in ocular surface signs and symptoms after interventions.
RESULTS: Overall, 35 eyes of 25 patients with a mean age of 66.8 ± 12.8 years, of which 72% were female, were included. The primary complaint was hyperemia and epiphora in all patients. Rosacea or meibomian gland disease were present in all patients, 7 (28%) had glaucoma, and 7 (28%) developed limbal stem cell deficiency. Twenty-two patients (88%) were using topical medications on presentation. All eyes had either punctal plugs, cauterized puncta, or punctal and (or) canaliculus stenosis. Management of all patients consisted of suspension of all preserved topical medications and institution of some type of anti-inflammatory therapy. Nineteen patients (76%) improved after improvement of lacrimal drainage. One patient with severe resistance in the canaliculus required ongoing preservative-free topical steroids.
CONCLUSIONS: Chronic drug-induced or pooled inflammatory mediators causing toxic conjunctivitis may be aggravated by punctal and (or) canaliculus stenosis, leading to toxic soup syndrome. Clearance of punctal obstruction leads to improvement in most patients.

Citation: Gouvea L, et al. Clinical features and management of keratoconjunctivitis associated with inadequate tear drainage. Clinical features and management of keratoconjunctivitis associated with inadequate tear drainage. 2024; 59:e206-e212. doi: 10.1016/j.jcjo.2023.03.020

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37088101/
