PMID: 37088360
Title: Best Medical Treatment in Patients with Asymptomatic Carotid Stenosis: Myth or Reality?

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Approximately 1.4 million strokes/year causing about 1.1 million deaths annually occur in Europe and 10%-15% of those strokes are result of thromboembolism from a previously significant asymptomatic carotid stenosis (ACS). Medical treatment has improved considerably in the last 15 years; however, its success depends on patient compliance. The aim of our study was to evaluate, in patients with ACS, the implementation and patient adherence to best medical treatment (BMT). Additionally, we sought to determine the "real-world" incidence of cerebrovascular/coronary events in a cohort of nonoperated ACS patients and weighing this risk against surgical complications in patients with ACS undergoing surgical treatment at our Department.
METHODS: Patients with ACS ≥ 60% identified by a carotid ultrasound performed at our Department were retrospectively evaluated. Patients selected to BMT were excluded if the follow-up period was inferior to 2 years, as well as patients lost in follow-up, with missing clinical information and submitted to carotid stenting. Patients' data collection was supported by hospital reporting system and data were introduced into a database created for the purpose. Statistical analysis was performed using SPSS-25 software.
RESULTS: After exclusion criteria were applied, the last 120 consecutive patients (60 with ACS submitted do carotid endarterectomy and 60 with ACS under BMT) were retrospectively evaluated. Twenty one patients had ipsilateral events for more than 6 months. Most patients had hypertension (n = 107; 89%), dyslipidemia (n = 101; 84%), 40% had diabetes, 33% diagnosed coronary disease, 32% were overweight or obese, and 17% were current smokers. Blood pressure control, normal weight, statin with/without ezetimibe association, and antiaggregant therapy were only achieved in 33 patients and only 5 had additionally low-density lipoprotein levels < 70 mg/dL, hemoglobin A1c < 7%, and were nonsmokers. Of the 60 patients assigned to medical treatment, 3 (5%) had a stroke at 2 years of follow-up, which was fatal in 1 patient. Among patients submitted to carotid endarterectomy, perioperative stroke was documented in 3% of the patients, none of them disabling or fatal.
CONCLUSIONS: Although some recent studies report a risk of ipsilateral stroke of only 0.34% per year in patients with ACS ≥ 50% under BMT therapy in our everyday practice strict compliance to medical treatment fails in most patients. In consequence, we think that a "one-size-fits-all" guideline policy may not be appropriate for all patients and the management of specific ACS patients may need to be individualized.

Citation: Constâncio Oliveira V, et al. Best Medical Treatment in Patients with Asymptomatic Carotid Stenosis: Myth or Reality?. Best Medical Treatment in Patients with Asymptomatic Carotid Stenosis: Myth or Reality?. 2023; 96:125-131. doi: 10.1016/j.avsg.2023.04.011

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37088360/
