PMID: 37091215
Title: Combined direct hysteroscopic and real-time ultrasound guidance facilitating safe insertion of intra-uterine brachytherapy applicator for locally advanced cervical cancer with significant endocervical stenosis: A novel collaborative approach.

Abstract: Locally advanced cervical cancer is treated with combined chemoradiation (CCRT) - with the radiotherapy component comprising delivery of both external beam (EBRT) and intra-uterine brachytherapy (IUBT). Following initial pelvic and tumour irradiation via EBRT, secondary tissue fibrosis can obliterate the vagina and / or endocervical canal. 30-88% of women will develop some degree of stenosis, with complete stenosis reported in up to 11% of patients - making accessing the uterine cavity to insert brachytherapy applicators challenging and high risk (Bran et al., 2006). This can result in inadvertent uterine perforation, occurring in 2-10% of cases (Irvin et al., 2002); with subsequent abandonment of both the procedure and proceeding to IUBT to complete treatment. Omission of IUBT confers an at least 10% reduction in overall survival (Karlsson et al., 2017). Whilst ultrasound-guided insertion has been previously described (Van Dyk et al., 2021), we present a surgical video demonstrating a novel technique. We instead utilise a combination of both real-time ultrasound and direct hysteroscopic guidance to achieve successful IUBT applicator insertion following CCRT in a patient with stage IIa1 SCC cervix and previous failed insertion attempt due to complete stenosis of the endocervical canal. We demonstrate how post-radiation changes can be safely navigated - avoiding morbidity from procedural complications and ensuring successful outcome. Our case supports a collaborative approach to complex gynaecological cancer cases; with the combined skills of the oncology, radiology and surgical teams maximising patient safety - and optimising oncological treatment. Use of portable hand-held hysteroscopic devices would increase the feasibility of replicating our described technique in brachytherapy suites, mitigating need for theatre capacity; with MDT discussion central to the planning and staffing of cases.

Citation: Addley S, et al. Combined direct hysteroscopic and real-time ultrasound guidance facilitating safe insertion of intra-uterine brachytherapy applicator for locally advanced cervical cancer with significant endocervical stenosis: A novel collaborative approach. Combined direct hysteroscopic and real-time ultrasound guidance facilitating safe insertion of intra-uterine brachytherapy applicator for locally advanced cervical cancer with significant endocervical stenosis: A novel collaborative approach. 2023; 47:101178. doi: 10.1016/j.gore.2023.101178

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37091215/
