PMID: 37090306
Title: Portal Vein Variations, Clinical Correlation, and Embryological Explanation: A Review Article.

Abstract: Portal vein (PV) is a large vein that collects blood from the abdominal part of gall bladder, pancreas, alimentary tract, and spleen and transports to the liver. One of the parts of the extraembryonic venous system, the vitelline veins, is where PV starts. In about five weeks of gestation, a venous plexus is formed, and variations in this plexus lead to portal variance. The junction of superior mesenteric and splenic veins is typically where the vein begins to network. There are five types of branching patterns of the right PV: conventional branching, trifurcation branching, early branching, separate segment 7 branching, and separate segment 6 branching. To perform pancreatic, duodenal, and liver surgeries, knowledge of variations in PV formation is important. For surgical and interventional operations to be accurate, it is crucial to understand the architecture of the PV and its anomalies. As distinct regions of the brain connect with one another, portal architecture is frequently observed in imaging investigations. Portal hypertension is characterized as an increase in blood pressure in the portal venous system (PVS) in the context of severe liver disease, such as cirrhosis. Non-invasive methods for examining the anatomy and anomalies of the PV include ultrasound, computed tomography (CT), and magnetic resonance (MR). There are many abnormalities of PVS that have been discussed in the articles such as Congenital PV Absence; PV Branches Congenitally Grow in Structure; Hypoplasia, Atresia, and Stenosis of the PV; and Portosystemic Shunts.

Citation: Tyagi G and Jha RK. Portal Vein Variations, Clinical Correlation, and Embryological Explanation: A Review Article. Portal Vein Variations, Clinical Correlation, and Embryological Explanation: A Review Article. 2023; 15:e36400. doi: 10.7759/cureus.36400

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37090306/
