PMID: 37091884
Title: Left Axillary Access for Transcatheter Aortic Valve Implantation in a Patient With Two Dependent Internal Mammary Artery Grafts and a Permanent Left-Sided Implanted Pacemaker.

Abstract: Transfemoral access has been established as the gold standard approach for the majority of patients undergoing transcatheter aortic valve implantation (TAVI). However, in cases with anatomical difficulties or severely diffused peripheral arterial disease, alternative vascular access may be considered such as the transaxillary approach. We present the case of a 92-year-old gentleman with exertional dyspnea due to severe symptomatic aortic stenosis and a history of peripheral femoro-femoral bypass surgery, coronary arterial bypass surgery and a permanent dual-chamber left-side implanted pacemaker. Due to the high surgical risk and the severe anatomical difficulties, the method of TAVI using the left axillary approach was opted. A 14-F vascular sheath was inserted with surgical cutdown and with fluoroscopic guidance while small injections of contrast confirmed the non-occlusive position and the patency of the left internal mammary artery (LIMA) graft. A stiff guidewire was used to cross the heavily calcified aortic valve and subsequently was placed into the left ventricle. Balloon aortic valvuloplasty was performed followed by a successful TAVI with no significant aortic regurgitation or paravalvular leak. The patient recuperated uneventfully and was discharged after 72 h. Axillary access for TAVI is a feasible option for high-risk patients with extended peripheral arteriopathy. To our knowledge this is the first case report describing the implantation of a newer type of intra-annular self-expanding valve platform in a nonagenarian patient with severe comorbidities and such a remarkable history of multiple previous interventions in the selected access site. Meticulous upfront strategy planning and efficient collaboration between specialties is of outmost importance in hybrid procedures for favorable clinical outcomes, especially in cases with challenging anatomies.

Citation: Papageorgiou C, et al. Left Axillary Access for Transcatheter Aortic Valve Implantation in a Patient With Two Dependent Internal Mammary Artery Grafts and a Permanent Left-Sided Implanted Pacemaker. Left Axillary Access for Transcatheter Aortic Valve Implantation in a Patient With Two Dependent Internal Mammary Artery Grafts and a Permanent Left-Sided Implanted Pacemaker. 2023; 14:153-157. doi: 10.14740/cr1495

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37091884/
