PMID: 37090289
Title: A Gut-Wrenching Feeling: Overcoming Cognitive Biases in an Atypical Presentation of Chronic Mesenteric Ischemia.

Abstract: Chronic mesenteric ischemia is a rare but serious condition that can present with a variety of symptoms, including abdominal pain, diarrhea, and weight loss. Our case report presents a 63-year-old male with a past medical history of generalized anxiety disorder, Barrett's esophagus, hypertension, hyperlipidemia, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) with active smoking who initially presented with severe diffuse abdominal pain, nausea, vomiting, and chronic diarrhea resulting in malnutrition and 40-pound weight loss over a six-month span. The patient underwent extensive diagnostic evaluation and was diagnosed with Yersinia gastroenteritis via gastroenteritis panel (GI Panel), explaining all of the patient's symptoms. The patient underwent treatment for said gastroenteritis but did not experience remission of symptoms, leading to further diagnostic evaluations; a definitive diagnosis was not found, yet the patient's symptoms persisted. The patient then underwent extensive serologic and endoscopic evaluation, after extensive imaging and diagnostic work-up, the patient was finally diagnosed with chronic mesenteric ischemia (CMI) of the superior mesenteric artery (SMA) with severe celiac and inferior mesenteric artery (IMA) stenosis. The patient initially underwent stenting (7 mm by 26 mm Balloon Mounted LifestreamTM Covered Stent; Becton Dickson (BD); Franklin Lakes, NJ, USA), which provided temporary relief to his symptoms, however, the relief did not last long. Upon reimaging, the patient was found to have stenosis of the stent, leading to the eventual placement of a bare-metal stent (ExpressTM LD 7 x 27 mm balloon mounted bare-metal stent; Boston Scientific; Boston, MA, USA) across the celiac artery as well as the placement of an IMA stent (InnovaTM Self-expanding 5 x 20 mm bare-metal stent; Boston Scientific). This eventually resulted in the resolution of the patient's symptoms, eventual weight gain, and improvement in quality of life.

Citation: Ahmed-Khan MA, et al. A Gut-Wrenching Feeling: Overcoming Cognitive Biases in an Atypical Presentation of Chronic Mesenteric Ischemia. A Gut-Wrenching Feeling: Overcoming Cognitive Biases in an Atypical Presentation of Chronic Mesenteric Ischemia. 2023; 15:e36416. doi: 10.7759/cureus.36416

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37090289/
