PMID: 37090864
Title: Complications associated with costal cartilage harvest in pediatric laryngotracheal reconstruction.

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: We aimed to determine the rate of complications associated with autologous costal cartilage graft harvest for pediatric laryngotracheal reconstruction (LTR). Secondarily, we sought to identify risk factors associated with the harvest of autologous costal cartilage, as well as evaluate management strategies.
DATA SOURCES: An electronic database search of Ovid MEDLINE, Ovid EMBASE, and PubMed was completed for articles pertaining to complications in autologous costal cartilage harvest for pediatric LTR.
REVIEW METHODS: This systematic review adhered to the Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic Reviews and Meta-Analyses (PRISMA) 2020 guidelines. The study characteristics, operative information, and patient demographics were collected. The data concerning postoperative complications, risk factors, and management strategies were collected and analyzed for patterns.
RESULTS: A total of 31 manuscripts representing 745 patients were included for analysis. The reported donor site complications included pneumothorax (n = 13, 1.74%), pleural tear (n = 5, 0.67%), infection (n = 8, 1.07%), and scar-related problems (n = 2, 0.26%). There were no reported cases of seroma, persistent pain, or chest wall deformity. Only five studies discussed the management of donor site complications, with intervention in 11 (39.28%) patients including chest tube drainage and steroid injection.
CONCLUSION: There is significant variability in the literature regarding complication rates in autologous costal cartilage harvest for pediatric LTR. The incidence of major postoperative complications is low and supports the use of autologous costal cartilage as graft material for pediatric LTR.
LEVEL OF EVIDENCE: NA.

Citation: Lava CX, et al. Complications associated with costal cartilage harvest in pediatric laryngotracheal reconstruction. Complications associated with costal cartilage harvest in pediatric laryngotracheal reconstruction. 2023; 8:584-590. doi: 10.1002/lio2.1028

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37090864/
