PMID: 37129111
Title: A Simplified One-Size-Fits-All Approach to Carotid Stenting.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Carotid artery stenosis causes up to 20% of ischemic strokes. Stenting is used as an alternative to endarterectomy in symptomatic patients. Each commercially available stent offers numerous stent diameters/lengths. Most centers thus carefully match each individual stenosis to a specific stent length/diameter stent size. However, this process can be time-consuming and costly while the relative benefit of a custom stent sizing versus one-size-fits-all approach has not been well evaluated yet. We hypothesized that a 'one-size-fits-all' default approach to carotid stenting results in comparable results to a customized approach.
METHODS: We conducted a descriptive retrospective cohort study on 154 patients who presented to our academic carotid revascularization clinic with symptomatic carotid artery stenosis who underwent carotid artery stenting for peri- and postprocedural carotid artery stenting complications. The primary outcomes were periprocedural (within 24 hours of the procedure) or postprocedural (within 30 days of the procedure) TIA, stroke, or death. The secondary outcome was the estimated degree of stenosis on follow-up ultrasound performed within 6 months of the procedure.
RESULTS: The complication rate within the first 24 hours was 4.5% while that during the first 30 days postprocedure was 6.5%. Age over 80 and degree of stenosis on postprocedural cerebral angiogram were associated with an increased risk of complications. Severe restenosis was reported in 16.8% of patients within 6 months postprocedure.
CONCLUSION: Our study suggests that using a simplified, one-size-fits-all, approach to carotid stenting results in safe and effective outcomes, suggesting an alternative to simplify a complex medical procedure.

Citation: Lahlouh A, et al. A Simplified One-Size-Fits-All Approach to Carotid Stenting. A Simplified One-Size-Fits-All Approach to Carotid Stenting. 2024; 51:220-225. doi: 10.1017/cjn.2023.48

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37129111/
