PMID: 37127121
Title: Safety and effectiveness of nano composite hydrogel stent implantation in the treatment of coronary cardiovascular disease: A preclinical study.

Abstract: With the improvement of people's quality of life, various cardiovascular diseases are the most common diseases. Therefore, the main site of disease atherosclerosis is blood vessels, so we can see that its flow rate has obvious changes. Through the analysis of coronary heart disease, this paper studies the relationship between coronary artery disease and cardiovascular disease, which is helpful to evaluate the risk of disease, and also provides the best prevention and treatment plan to overcome cardiovascular disease. As the material of artificial cartilage repair, nanocomposite hydrogel has excellent application value and attraction, because nanocomposite hydrogel has a structure similar to the extracellular matrix of natural chondrocytes. The patients in the experimental group were treated with nano composite hydrogel stent implantation. The other group of patients used the traditional way to carry out the comparative experiment. In the perfusion data of each ventricular wall in the coronary angiography and anterior wall perfusion group, the percentage of lateral wall in the normal proportion was the highest, 69.2%, 59.3% in the anterior wall, 39.5% in the inferior wall, and 19.7% in the apical value and interval. The percentage of LAD stenosis in anterior wall perfusion was O. The highest percentage in the lateral wall was 69.2%, and the lowest in the septum and apex was 19.7%. Nanocomposite hydrogel stent implantation can effectively treat coronary heart disease. The research shows that it is safe and effective in application.

Citation: Zhan EB and Du HW. Safety and effectiveness of nano composite hydrogel stent implantation in the treatment of coronary cardiovascular disease: A preclinical study. Safety and effectiveness of nano composite hydrogel stent implantation in the treatment of coronary cardiovascular disease: A preclinical study. 2023; 172:107524. doi: 10.1016/j.ypmed.2023.107524

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37127121/
