PMID: 37128178
Title: Intracranial Atherosclerotic Stenosis Is Associated with Cognitive Impairment in Patients with Nondisabling Ischemic Stroke: A pCASL-Based Study.

Abstract: Background: Intracranial atherosclerotic stenosis (ICAS) is a key risk factor for vascular cognitive impairment. Cerebral blood flow (CBF) and the spatial coefficient of variation (sCoV) of CBF images (based on pseudocontinuous arterial spin labeling) are used to explore abnormal cerebral perfusion. We aimed to probe the mechanisms underlying cognitive impairment in patients with nondisabling anterior circulation macrovascular disease. Methods: This study included 47 patients with ICAS or occlusion and 40 controls. All participants underwent global and individual neuropsychology assessments and magnetic resonance imaging scan. The correlations between cognitive function and abnormal perfusion were explored. Results: The CBF in the ipsilateral middle cerebral artery (MCA) territory of the lesion side decreased significantly, while it increased on the contralateral side. CBF value had a significant correlation with the memory function in the right cerebral artery lesion group. The sCoV in both gray matter (GM) and the ipsilateral MCA territory of the lesion increased significantly. The sCoV value based on the GM territory or MCA territory was significantly correlated with global cognitive function, memory function, and executive function in patients with ICAS. Conclusions: The cognitive function of patients with severe ICAS or occlusion in anterior circulation was significantly impaired. sCoV could be a better indicator of cognitive impairment than CBF. Interventions to relieve vascular stenosis or occlusion and delay cognitive impairment or improve cognitive function should be actively considered.

Citation: Du B, et al. Intracranial Atherosclerotic Stenosis Is Associated with Cognitive Impairment in Patients with Nondisabling Ischemic Stroke: A pCASL-Based Study. Intracranial Atherosclerotic Stenosis Is Associated with Cognitive Impairment in Patients with Nondisabling Ischemic Stroke: A pCASL-Based Study. 2023; 13:508-518. doi: 10.1089/brain.2022.0088

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37128178/
