PMID: 37123657
Title: Genetic variant in the BRAF gene compatible with Noonan spectrum disorders in an adult Fontan patient with refractory protein losing enteropathy: a follow-up report.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Patients with a univentricular heart form a morphological heterogenous group of patients at the most severe end of the congenital heart disease (CHD) spectrum. Over the past decades, more awareness and knowledge has been raised on the genetic contributions to CHD. To date, only a limited number of genes have been identified in the hypoplastic heart, mainly in left-sided hypoplasia. There is still much more to be elucidated in this field.
CASE SUMMARY: Here, we present a follow-up report of a case of an adult patient after Fontan palliation, born with a.o. tricuspid atresia with hypoplastic right ventricle and pulmonary stenosis. This patient encountered a myriad of late sequalae involving multiple organ systems during the course of his young adult life, including refractory protein losing enteropathy (PLE). Concomitant extracardiac anomalies, in addition to the complex CHD and its complications, prompted for genetic evaluation. Whole exome sequencing showed a variant of uncertain significance in the BRAF gene [NM_004333.4:c.1897T &gt; C p.(Tyr633His)], associated with Noonan spectrum disorders, that is also infamous for lymphoedema and PLE. The variant regards an evolutionarily highly conserved amino acid and is assumed pathogenic according to all prediction programmes. The mutation was most likely de novo.
DISCUSSION: Genetic screening can provide new insights in the complex and varied phenotype of the (adult) Fontan patient and in the myriad of complications encountered. Adult CHD cardiologists should be aware of genetic syndromes underlying a CHD, concomitant extracardiac anomalies, and a complex clinical course with a broad spectrum of late sequelae.

Citation: Nederend M, et al. Genetic variant in the BRAF gene compatible with Noonan spectrum disorders in an adult Fontan patient with refractory protein losing enteropathy: a follow-up report. Genetic variant in the BRAF gene compatible with Noonan spectrum disorders in an adult Fontan patient with refractory protein losing enteropathy: a follow-up report. 2023; 7:ytad176. doi: 10.1093/ehjcr/ytad176

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37123657/
