PMID: 37123303
Title: Application of endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography for treatment of obstructive jaundice after hepatoblastoma surgery: A case report.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: We aimed to investigate the effectiveness of endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography (ERCP) for treating obstructive jaundice (OJ) post hepatoblastoma (HB) surgery (post-HB OJ) by analyzing the data of a case and performing a literature review.
CASE SUMMARY: Clinical data of one patient with post-HB OJ treated by ERCP were retrospectively analyzed. Furthermore, clinical characteristics and insights into the diagnosis and treatment of post-HB OJ in children were summarized via searching various databases and platforms, such as China National Knowledge Infrastructure, Wanfang database, CQVIP database, PubMed, Ringer Link, and Google Scholar. The patient reported herein underwent five chemotherapy sessions after the diagnosis of HB and right hemihepatectomy after tumor size reduction; these were followed by two postoperative chemotherapy sessions. Three months postoperatively, the patient developed icteric sclera, strong tea-colored urine, and clay-like stools, and showed signs of skin itchiness; blood analysis showed significantly an increased conjugated bilirubin (CB) level (200.3 μmol/L). Following the poor efficacy of anti-jaundice and hepatoprotective treatments, the patient underwent ERCP. Intraoperative imaging showed a dilated bile duct in the porta hepatis with significant distal stenosis. A 5 Fr nasopancreatic tube was placed in the dilated area through the stricture for external drainage, and the patient was extubated on postoperative day 6. Postoperatively, the patient's stool turned yellow, and the CB level decreased to 78.2 μmol/L. Fifteen days later, ERCP was repeated due to unrelieved jaundice symptoms, wherein a 7 Fr nasobiliary drainage tube was successfully placed. Three months post-ERCP, the jaundice symptoms resolved, and the CB level was reduced to 33.2 μmol/L. A follow-up examination one year postoperatively revealed no jaundice symptoms and normal CB level.
CONCLUSION: Post-HB OJ is rare. Compared to biliary tract reconstruction, ERCP is less invasive and has a better therapeutic effect.

Citation: Shu J, et al. Application of endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography for treatment of obstructive jaundice after hepatoblastoma surgery: A case report. Application of endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography for treatment of obstructive jaundice after hepatoblastoma surgery: A case report. 2023; 11:2502-2509. doi: 10.12998/wjcc.v11.i11.2502

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37123303/
