PMID: 37121923
Title: Micro-hepatocellular carcinoma with bile duct tumor thrombus mimicking intrahepatic intraductal papillary neoplasm of the bile duct: a case report.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Microhepatocellular carcinoma with a gross bile duct tumor thrombus is extremely rare, making the correct preoperative diagnosis difficult.
CASE PRESENTATION: A 78-year-old man was referred to our department for close examination of a liver tumor that was incidentally detected using ultrasonography. Blood tests revealed normal levels of tumor markers. Abdominal ultrasonography showed a 2-cm-sized hyperechoic mass with indistinct borders and hypoechoic margins at the origin of the right hepatic duct. Dynamic computed tomography showed a tumor with arterial phase predominance, a heterogeneous contrast effect, and prolonged enhancement. Cystic structures were observed in the tumors. In addition, localized dilatation of the caudate lobe bile duct was observed near the tumor. Cholangiography showed that the common bile duct, right and left hepatic ducts, and secondary branches did not have dilatation or stenosis. Biopsies of the bile duct revealed no malignancy. Under suspicion of intrahepatic intraductal papillary neoplasm of the bile duct, right hemi-hepatectomy was performed. The extrahepatic bile duct was preserved, because no tumor was found at the margin of the right hepatic duct during intraoperative frozen diagnosis. Macroscopically, the lesion was an 18 × 15 mm tumor occupying a dilated intrahepatic bile duct near the right hepatic duct, with a soft, fine papillary tumor. Based on morphology and immunostaining, tumor matched with moderately differentiated hepatocellular carcinoma. In addition, a 2 mm-sized hepatocellular carcinoma was observed in the liver parenchyma near the bile duct, where the tumor was located.
CONCLUSIONS: Based on these findings, the patient was diagnosed with small hepatocellular carcinoma with a gross bile duct tumor thrombus. The cystic part seen on the preoperative images was considered as a gap between the bile duct and the tumor thrombus. The patient recovered well with no signs of recurrence 20 months after surgery.

Citation: Matsumoto T, et al. Micro-hepatocellular carcinoma with bile duct tumor thrombus mimicking intrahepatic intraductal papillary neoplasm of the bile duct: a case report. Micro-hepatocellular carcinoma with bile duct tumor thrombus mimicking intrahepatic intraductal papillary neoplasm of the bile duct: a case report. 2023; 9:67. doi: 10.1186/s40792-023-01646-3

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37121923/
