PMID: 37128149
Title: Qualitative and quantitative plaque enhancement on high-resolution vessel wall imaging predicts symptomatic intracranial atherosclerotic stenosis.

Abstract: BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: Intracranial atherosclerotic stenosis (ICAS) is a major cause of ischemic stroke (IS), and high-resolution vessel wall imaging (HR-VWI) can be used to assess the plaque characteristics of ICAS. This study aimed to qualitatively and quantitatively assess plaque enhancement of ICAS and to investigate the relationship between plaque enhancement, plaque morphological features, and IS.
METHODS: Data from adult patients with ICAS from April 2018 to July 2022 were retrospectively collected, and all patients underwent HR-VWI examination. Plaque enhancement was qualitatively and quantitatively assessed, and the plaque-to-pituitary stalk contrast ratio (CR) indicated the degree of plaque enhancement. Plaque characteristics, such as plaque burden and area, were quantitatively measured using HR-VWI. Furthermore, receiver-operating characteristic (ROC) analysis was performed to assess the ability of CR to discriminate plaque enhancement. The patients were divided into a symptomatic ICAS group and an asymptomatic ICAS group according to the clinical and imaging characteristics. Univariate and multivariate analyses were performed to investigate which factors were significantly associated with plaque enhancement and symptomatic ICAS. The plaque burden and CR were compared using linear regression.
RESULTS: A total of 91 patients with ICAS were enrolled in this study. ICAS plaque burden was significantly associated with plaque enhancement (p = .037), and plaque burden was linearly positively correlated with CR (R = 0.357, p = .001). ROC analysis showed that the cutoff value of CR for plaque enhancement was 0.56 (specificity of 81.8%). Both plaque enhancement and plaque burden were significantly associated with symptomatic ICAS, and only plaque enhancement was an independent risk factor after multivariate analysis.
CONCLUSION: Plaque burden was an independent risk factor for plaque enhancement and showed a linear positive correlation with CR. The cutoff value of CR for plaque enhancement was 0.56, and CR ≥ 0.56 was significantly associated with symptomatic ICAS, which was independently associated with plaque enhancement.

Citation: Huang LX, et al. Qualitative and quantitative plaque enhancement on high-resolution vessel wall imaging predicts symptomatic intracranial atherosclerotic stenosis. Qualitative and quantitative plaque enhancement on high-resolution vessel wall imaging predicts symptomatic intracranial atherosclerotic stenosis. 2023; 13:e3032. doi: 10.1002/brb3.3032

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37128149/
