PMID: 37122961
Title: Syphilitic aortitis and ostial coronary stenosis treated by endarterectomy, bypass grafting and aortic valve replacement: a case report.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Syphilitic ostial coronary stenosis is an uncommon manifestation of cardiovascular syphilis, characterized by concomitant aortic regurgitation and isolated or bilateral ostial involvement. Although much has been written about syphilis in the pre-antibiotic era, the key imaging and operative findings were rarely reported in the modern literature. Through multimodality imaging and operative videos, we demonstrate the unique diagnostic and therapeutic hurdles associated with the condition.
CASE DESCRIPTION: A 47-year-old woman presented with acute decompensated heart failure due to bilateral ostial coronary stenosis and severe aortic insufficiency, which raises suspicion for underlying syphilis. She underwent successful aortic valve replacement, right coronary ostioplasty and bypass grafting of the left coronary system. The syphilitic process was confirmed by histopathological examination of the aortic valve and aortic wall as well as serological tests. She recovered from the operation uneventfully.
CONCLUSIONS: The manifestations of cardiovascular syphilis are protean and can pose significant diagnostic challenges even in the modern era. The presence of isolated coronary ostial stenosis should raise suspicion for syphilis. Timely surgery and antibiotics can lead to successful outcomes. Furthermore, the evolution and nuances of surgical techniques addressing ostial coronary stenosis was reviewed. Surgical strategy should be individualized based on preoperative multimodality imaging.

Citation: Ip SKF, et al. Syphilitic aortitis and ostial coronary stenosis treated by endarterectomy, bypass grafting and aortic valve replacement: a case report. Syphilitic aortitis and ostial coronary stenosis treated by endarterectomy, bypass grafting and aortic valve replacement: a case report. 2023; 7:15. doi: 10.21037/acr-22-32

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37122961/
