PMID: 37122522
Title: Interaction between the left ventricular ejection fraction and left ventricular strain and its relationship with coronary stenosis.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Coronary artery stenosis (CAS) is the most common type of heart disease and the leading cause of death in both men and women globally. CAS occurs when the arteries that supply blood to the heart muscle harden and become narrower due to plaque buildup - cholesterol and other material - on their inner walls. As a result, the heart muscle cannot receive the blood or oxygen it needs. Most heart attacks happen when a blood clot suddenly cuts off the hearts' blood supply, causing permanent heart damage.
AIM: To analyze the relationship between the left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF), left ventricular strain (LVS), and coronary stenosis.
METHODS: A total of 190 participants were enrolled in this trail. The control group comprised 93 healthy individuals, and observation group comprised 97 patients with coronary heart disease who were hospitalized between July 2020 and September 2021. Coronary lesions were assessed using the Gensini score, and the LVEF and LVS were measured using magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). The interaction between the LVEF and LVS was examined using a linear regression model. The relationship between LVEF and coronary stenosis was examined using Spearman's correlation.
RESULTS: The LVEF of the observation group was lower than that of the control group. The left ventricular end-systolic volume (LVESV) and left ventricular end-diastolic volume (LVEDV) of the observation group were significantly higher than those of the control group (P &lt; 0.05). The longitudinal and circumferential strains (LS, CS) of the observation group were significantly higher than those of the control group; however, the radial strain (RS) of the observation group was significantly lower than that of the control group (P &lt; 0.05). LVS, LS, and CS were significantly negatively correlated with the LVEF, and RS was positively correlated with the LVEF. There were significant differences in the LVEF, LVESV, and LVEDV of patients with different Gensini scores; the LVEF significantly decreased and the LVESV and LVEDV increased with increasing Gensini scores (P &lt; 0.05). In the observation group, the LVEF was negatively correlated and the LVESV and LVEDV were positively correlated with coronary stenosis (P &lt; 0.05).
CONCLUSION: The LVEF measured using MRI is significantly linearly correlated with LVS and negatively correlated with coronary stenosis.

Citation: Gui HY, et al. Interaction between the left ventricular ejection fraction and left ventricular strain and its relationship with coronary stenosis. Interaction between the left ventricular ejection fraction and left ventricular strain and its relationship with coronary stenosis. 2023; 11:2246-2253. doi: 10.12998/wjcc.v11.i10.2246

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37122522/
