PMID: 37142256
Title: Therapeutic Role of Subcutaneous Access Loop Created Adjunct to Hepaticojejunostomy for Management of Bile Duct Injury.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Roux-en-Y hepaticojejunostomy (RYHJ) is usually required for major bile duct injury (BDI) as a definitive treatment. Hepaticojejunostomy anastomotic stricture (HJAS) is the most feared long-term complication following RYHJ. The ideal management of HJAS remains undefined. The provision of permanent endoscopic access to the bilio-enteric anastomotic site can make endoscopic management of HJAS feasible and attractive option. In this cohort study, we aimed to evaluate short- and long-term outcomes of subcutaneous access loop created adjunct to RYHJ (RYHJ-SA) for management of BDI and its usefulness for endoscopic management of anastomotic stricture if occurred.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: This is a prospective study including patients who were diagnosed with iatrogenic BDI and underwent hepaticojejunostomy with subcutaneous access loop between September 2017 and September 2019.
RESULTS: This study included a total number of 21 patients whom ages ranged between 18 and 68 years. During follow-up, three cases had HJAS. One patient had the access loop in subcutaneous position. Endoscopy was done but failed to dilate the stricture. The other 2 patients had the access loop in subfascial position. Endoscopy of them failed to enter the access loop due to failure of fluoroscopy to identify the access loop. The three cases underwent redo-hepaticojejunostomy. Parajejunal (parastomal) hernia occurs in 2 patients in whom the access loop was fixed subcutaneous position.
CONCLUSION: In conclusion, modified RYHJ with subcutaneous access loop (RYHJ-SA) is associated with reduced quality of life and patient satisfaction. Moreover, its role in endoscopic management of HJAS after biliary reconstruction for major BDI is limited.

Citation: Raafat M, et al. Therapeutic Role of Subcutaneous Access Loop Created Adjunct to Hepaticojejunostomy for Management of Bile Duct Injury. Therapeutic Role of Subcutaneous Access Loop Created Adjunct to Hepaticojejunostomy for Management of Bile Duct Injury. 2023; 89:5711-5719. doi: 10.1177/00031348231173945

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37142256/
