PMID: 37145178
Title: Laparoscopic-assisted robotic distal gastrectomy for gastric cancer by Billroth II reconstruction.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: There are several reconstructions in distal gastrectomy for gastric cancer, and there is no clear definition regarding the method selection. The optimal reconstruction is likely to vary according to the surgical setting, and the optimal reconstruction for robotic distal gastrectomy is urgently needed. In addition, as robotic gastrectomy is getting popular, cost and operative time are pressing issues of robotic gastrectomy.
METHODS: Gastrojejunostomy was planned with Billroth II reconstruction using a linear stapler arranged specifically for a robotic approach. After firing the stapler, the common insertion orifice of the stapler was closed using a 30 cm long non-absorbable barbed suture, and continuously, the afferent loop of the jejunum was lifted to the stomach with the same barbed suture. In addition, we introduced laparoscopic-assisted robotic gastrectomy, using extracorporeally inserted laparoscopic devices from the assistant port. Scissors, clips, and linear staplers were all laparoscopic tools inserted extracorporeally.
RESULTS: Twenty-one gastric cancer patients underwent laparoscopic-assisted robotic distal gastrectomy by Billroth II reconstruction with our modifications. There were no anastomosis-related complications such as leakage, stenosis, or bleeding. There were 2 cases of aspiration pneumonia (Clavien-Dindo grade 2), 1 case of pancreatic juice leakage (grade 3a), and 1 case of delayed gastric emptying (grade 1).
CONCLUSION: We successfully arranged Billroth II reconstruction for robotic distal gastrectomy with fewer operative and postoperative complications. Laparoscopic-assisted robotic gastrectomy using extracorporeally inserted devices, and continuous suturing using a barbed suture will reduce the time and cost of robotic gastrectomy.

Citation: Konishi S, et al. Laparoscopic-assisted robotic distal gastrectomy for gastric cancer by Billroth II reconstruction. Laparoscopic-assisted robotic distal gastrectomy for gastric cancer by Billroth II reconstruction. 2023; 408:179. doi: 10.1007/s00423-023-02895-4

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37145178/
