PMID: 37146401
Title: Fetal posterior cerebral artery in pediatric and adult moyamoya disease: A single-center experience of 480 patients.

Abstract: PURPOSE: In past pediatric and adult cohort studies of moyamoya disease, the fetal posterior cerebral artery has received less attention. Its relationship with the clinical manifestations and collateral circulation of moyamoya disease or ipsilateral cerebral hemispheres remains unclear.
METHOD: We summarize the clinical features of patients with and without fetal posterior cerebral artery moyamoya disease from consecutive cases.We explored the relationship between fetal posterior cerebral arteries and collateral circulation in the ipsilateral cerebral hemispheres, as well as differences among different subgroups of patients.According to the morphology, the fetal posterior cerebral artery is divided into complete fetal posterior cerebral artery and partial fetal posterior cerebral artery. Clinical features were classified as: infarction,hemorrhage,and non-stroke in unilateral/bilateral cerebral hemispheres. Collateral circulation is divided into extracranial vascular compensation and leptomeningeal collateral circulation. Digital subtraction angiography and CT/MR were used to evaluate the blood flow status and clinical characteristics of patients with moyamoya disease.
RESULT: A total of 960 cerebral hemispheres from 142 pediatric patients and 338 adult patients were included in the study. A total of 273 (56.9%) patients had 399 cerebral hemispheres (41.6%) with fetal posterior cerebral arteries. Adults with fetal posterior cerebral arteries had lower rates of infarction (24.6%vs37.3%, P =0.005) and were less likely to have bilateral stroke (8.4%vs11.5%, P =0.038). Cerebral hemispheres with fetal posterior cerebral artery were more likely to have anterior cerebral artery and middle cerebral artery stenosis and less likely to have occlusion (P =0.002, 0.001), and less likely to involve the posterior circulation (P < 0.001). The cerebral hemispheres of the fetal posterior cerebral artery had higher leptomeningeal collateral circulation scores. There are significant differences in extracranial vascular compensation between cerebral hemispheres with and without fetal posterior cerebral artery. Adult patients with fetal posterior cerebral artery were more advanced in Suzuki stage (P =0.017).
CONCLUSIONS: Our results suggest that fetal posterior cerebral artery is associated with infarct manifestations in pediatric and adult moyamoya disease. In the cerebral hemispheres, the fetal posterior cerebral artery is associated with ipsilateral hemispheric anterior and posterior circulation artery injury, extracranial vascular compensation, leptomeningeal collateral circulation compensation, and infarction. Adult patients with fetal posterior cerebral artery were more advanced in Suzuki stage.

Citation: Wei Y, et al. Fetal posterior cerebral artery in pediatric and adult moyamoya disease: A single-center experience of 480 patients. Fetal posterior cerebral artery in pediatric and adult moyamoya disease: A single-center experience of 480 patients. 2023; 32:107125. doi: 10.1016/j.jstrokecerebrovasdis.2023.107125

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37146401/
