PMID: 37140552
Title: A new predictor of the optimal pulmonary artery reconstruction method during the arterial switch operation.

Abstract: OBJECTIVES: The aim of this study was to more accurately predict the optimal pulmonary artery (PA) reconstruction procedure (Lecompte manoeuvre or original Jatene procedure) during the arterial switch operation, we focused on the horizontal sectioning (HS) angle between the left hilum PA and the great arteries using preoperative computed tomography imaging.
METHODS: We defined the HS angle α (β) as the angle between the tangential line from the posterior (anterior) wall of the left PA at the hilum to the left anterior (right posterior) surface of the main PA and the tangential line from the left surface of the ascending aorta to the left anterior (right posterior) surface of the main PA. We identified 14 consecutive patients diagnosed with transposition of the great arteries or transposition of the great artery-type double-outlet right ventricle who underwent preoperative computed tomography imaging. The original Jatene or Lecompte procedure was used for 9 (OJ group) and 5 (L group) patients. Relationships of the great arteries of the OJ and L groups were side by side in 8 and 2 patients, oblique in 1 and 1 patient and anteroposterior in 0 and 2 patients, respectively.
RESULTS: In the OJ group, β was greater than α in all patients. The median α/β value was 0.618. In group L, α was greater than β in all patients. The median α/β was 1.307. Left PA stenosis caused by stretching was not observed in the L group. Coronary obstruction was not identified in the OJ group. Left PA stenosis behind the neo-ascending aorta was observed in 1 patient in the OJ group and required reoperation.
CONCLUSIONS: The HS angle may be a useful predictor of optimal intraoperative PA reconstruction during arterial switch operation, especially for side-by-side or oblique relationships.

Citation: Hongu H, et al. A new predictor of the optimal pulmonary artery reconstruction method during the arterial switch operation. A new predictor of the optimal pulmonary artery reconstruction method during the arterial switch operation. 2023; 64:(unknown pages). doi: 10.1093/ejcts/ezad173

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37140552/
