PMID: 37142999
Title: The prognostic study of mental stress-induced myocardial ischemia in coronary revascularization patients with depression/anxiety: rationale and design.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Mental stress-induced myocardial ischemia (MSIMI) frequently occurs in patients with coronary artery disease (CAD), and is even more common in patients with co-occurring CAD and depression/anxiety. MSIMI appears to be a poor prognostic factor for CAD, but existing data on depression/anxiety patients are limited.
METHODS: This cohort study will consecutively screen 2,647 CAD patients between 2023 and 2025. Included subjects will need to have received coronary revascularization and also have depression and/or anxiety at baseline. This study will enroll 360 subjects who meet the criteria. Two mental stress tests will be carried out in each patient at 1 month and 1 year timelines after coronary revascularization, using Stroop color word tests. MSIMI will be assessed by 99 m-Tc-sestamibi myocardial perfusion imaging. The endothelial function will be assessed by EndoPAT. Furthermore, we will dynamically monitor patients' health and mental conditions every 3 months. The mean follow-up time will be 1 year. The primary endpoint is the major adverse cardiac events, a composite of all-cause death, cardiac death, myocardial infarction, stroke, or unplanned revascularization. Secondary endpoints will include overall health and mental conditions. The reproducibility of mental stress combined with myocardial perfusion for detecting MSIMI and comparisons between coronary stenosis and ischemic segments will also be included.
CONCLUSIONS: This cohort study will provide information on MSIMI outcomes in CAD patients who also have comorbid depression/anxiety after revascularization. In addition, understanding the long-term dynamics of MSIMI and the match between coronary stenosis and ischemia will provide insight into MSIMI mechanisms.
TRAIL REGISTRATION: ChiCTR2200055792, 2022.1.20, www.medresman.org.cn.

Citation: Nan N, et al. The prognostic study of mental stress-induced myocardial ischemia in coronary revascularization patients with depression/anxiety: rationale and design. The prognostic study of mental stress-induced myocardial ischemia in coronary revascularization patients with depression/anxiety: rationale and design. 2023; 23:235. doi: 10.1186/s12872-023-03246-3

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37142999/
