PMID: 37154545
Title: Reduction of Radiation Exposure during Endovascular Treatment of Peripheral Arterial Disease Combining Fiber Optic RealShape Technology and Intravascular Ultrasound.

Abstract: Vascular surgeons and interventional radiologists face chronic exposure to low-dose radiation during endovascular procedures, which may impact their health in the long term due to their stochastic effects. The presented case shows the feasibility and efficacy of combining Fiber Optic RealShape (FORS) technology and intravascular ultrasound (IVUS) to reduce operator exposure during the endovascular treatment of obstructive peripheral arterial disease (PAD). FORS technology enables real-time, three-dimensional visualization of the full shape of guidewires and catheters, embedded with optical fibers that use laser light instead of fluoroscopy. Hereby, radiation exposure is reduced, and spatial perception is improved while navigating during endovascular procedures. IVUS has the capacity to optimally define vessel dimensions. Combining FORS and IVUS in a patient with iliac in-stent restenosis, as shown in this case report, enables passage of the stenosis and pre- and post-percutaneous transluminal angioplasty (PTA) plaque assessment (diameter improvement and morphology), with a minimum dose of radiation and zero contrast agent. The aim of this article is to describe the method of combining FORS and IVUS stepwise, to show the potential of merging both techniques in view of reducing radiation exposure and improving navigation tasks and treatment success during the endovascular procedure for the treatment of PAD.

Citation: Hazenberg CEVB, et al. Reduction of Radiation Exposure during Endovascular Treatment of Peripheral Arterial Disease Combining Fiber Optic RealShape Technology and Intravascular Ultrasound. Reduction of Radiation Exposure during Endovascular Treatment of Peripheral Arterial Disease Combining Fiber Optic RealShape Technology and Intravascular Ultrasound. 2023; (unknown volume):(unknown pages). doi: 10.3791/64956

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37154545/
