PMID: 37154862
Title: Delayed-onset adenosine deaminase deficiency with a novel synonymous mutation and a case series from China.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Adenosine deaminase (ADA) is a key enzyme in the purine salvage pathway. Genetic defects of the ADA gene can cause a subtype of severe combined immunodeficiency. To date, few Chinese cases have been reported.
METHODS: We retrospectively reviewed the medical records of patients diagnosed with ADA deficiency in Beijing Children's Hospital and summarized the previously published ADA deficiency cases from China in the literature.
RESULTS: Nine patients were identified with two novel mutations (W272X and Q202 =). Early-onset infection, thymic abnormalities and failure to thrive were the most common manifestations of Chinese ADA-deficient patients. The ADA genotype has a major effect on the clinical phenotype. Notably, a novel synonymous mutation (c.606G>A, p.Q202=) was identified in a delayed-onset patient, which affected pre-mRNA splicing leading to a frameshift and premature truncation of the protein. Furthermore, the patient showed γδT cells expansion with an increased effect or phenotype, which may be associated with the delayed onset of disease. In addition, we reported cerebral aneurysm and intracranial artery stenosis for the first time in ADA deficiency. Five patients died with a median age of four months, while two patients received stem cell transplantation and are alive.
CONCLUSIONS: This study described the first case series of Chinese ADA-deficient patients. Early-onset infection, thymic abnormalities and failure to thrive were the most common manifestations in our patients. We identified a synonymous mutation that affected pre-mRNA splicing in the ADA gene, which had never been reported in ADA deficiency. Furthermore, we reported cerebral aneurysm in a delayed-onset patient for the first time. Further study is warranted to investigate the underlying mechanisms.

Citation: Zhang Y, et al. Delayed-onset adenosine deaminase deficiency with a novel synonymous mutation and a case series from China. Delayed-onset adenosine deaminase deficiency with a novel synonymous mutation and a case series from China. 2023; 19:687-700. doi: 10.1007/s12519-023-00729-3

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37154862/
