PMID: 37157029
Title: Metagenomic analysis of oral plaques and aortic valve tissues reveals oral bacteria associated with aortic stenosis.

Abstract: OBJECTIVES: Bacteria derived from the oral cavity enter the bloodstream and cause the onset of various systemic diseases, including heart valve disease. However, information on the oral bacteria involved in aortic stenosis is limited.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: We comprehensively analyzed the microbiota in aortic valve tissues collected from aortic stenosis patients using metagenomic sequencing and investigated the relationships between the valve microbiota, the oral microbiota, and oral cavity conditions.
RESULTS: Metagenomic analysis revealed the presence of 629 bacterial species in five oral plaques and 15 aortic valve clinical specimens. Patients were classified into two groups (A and B) according to their aortic valve microbiota composition using principal coordinate analysis. Examination of the oral conditions of the patients showed no difference in the decayed/missing/filled teeth index. Bacteria in group B tend to be associated with severe disease, and the number of bacteria on the dorsum of the tongue and the positive rate of bleeding during probing were significantly higher in this group than in group A. The pathophysiology of aortic stenosis may be related to the presence of oral bacteria such as Streptococcus oralis and Streptococcus sanguinis following bacteremia.
CONCLUSIONS: Systemic inflammation in severe periodontitis may be driven by the oral microbiota, supporting the indirect (inflammatory) association between oral bacteria and aortic stenosis.
CLINICAL RELEVANCE: Appropriate oral hygiene management may contribute to the prevention and treatment of aortic stenosis.

Citation: Yoshiba S, et al. Metagenomic analysis of oral plaques and aortic valve tissues reveals oral bacteria associated with aortic stenosis. Metagenomic analysis of oral plaques and aortic valve tissues reveals oral bacteria associated with aortic stenosis. 2023; 27:4335-4344. doi: 10.1007/s00784-023-05053-8

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37157029/
