PMID: 37159769
Title: Validity and Reliability of the European Organization Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire-Oesophagogastric 25 in Indian Patients With Corrosive-Induced Benign Refractory Esophageal Strictures.

Abstract: Background The European organization Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire-Oesophagogastric 25 (EORTC QLQ-OG 25) is designed for patients with esophagogastric cancer. Its performance has never been tested with benign disorders. A health-related quality-of-life questionnaire does not exist for patients with benign corrosive-induced esophageal strictures. Hence, we evaluated the EORTC QLQ-OG 25 in Indian patients with corrosive strictures. Methods The English or Hindi version of QLQ-OG 25 was administered to 31 adult patients undergoing outpatient esophageal dilation at GB Pant hospital, New Delhi. These patients had refractory or recurrent esophageal strictures due to corrosive ingestion and had not undergone reconstructive surgery. Score distribution was analyzed, and item performance was determined based on floor and ceiling effects. Convergent validity, discriminant validity, and internal consistency were checked. Results The average time to finish the questionnaire was 6.70 minutes. Most scales fulfilled convergent validity (corrected item-total correlation >0.4), barring the Odynophagia scale and one item of the Dysphagia scale. Most scales exhibited divergent validity except for odynophagia and one item of dysphagia. Cronbach's alpha was >0.70 for all scales except odynophagia. Responses to questions evaluating taste, cough, swallowing saliva, and talking were highly skewed and had prominent floor effects. Overall, the questionnaire demonstrated good internal consistency, convergent validity, and divergent validity in benign corrosive-induced refractory esophageal strictures patients. Conclusion The EORTC QLQ-OG 25 can be satisfactorily used in patients with benign esophageal strictures to assess health-related quality of life.

Citation: Pandey T, et al. Validity and Reliability of the European Organization Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire-Oesophagogastric 25 in Indian Patients With Corrosive-Induced Benign Refractory Esophageal Strictures. Validity and Reliability of the European Organization Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire-Oesophagogastric 25 in Indian Patients With Corrosive-Induced Benign Refractory Esophageal Strictures. 2023; 15:e37190. doi: 10.7759/cureus.37190

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37159769/
