PMID: 37158112
Title: Determination of patient-specific airway stent fit using novel 3D reconstruction measurement techniques: a 4-year follow-up of a patient.

Abstract: Managing complex benign airway disease is a major challenge in interventional pulmonology. With the introduction of additive manufacturing in the medical field, patient-specific (PS) implants are an innovate prospect for airway management. Historically, stents were oversized to resist migration. However, the optimal degree and impact of stent oversizing remains unclear. The ability to design stents based on computed tomography (CT) invites opportunity to understand sizing. Here, we report a novel three-dimensional (3D) image reconstruction tool to quantify fit repeatedly over time. Analysis of CT imaging before and after successive stent implants in a single patient with different areas of stenosis and malacia was done. Nine PS airway stents over 4 years (five left mainstem and four right mainstem) were studied. The distance between the airway model and stent was calculated. The CT images were correlated to stent designs in CloudCompare software (v2.10-alpha) for novel analysis. Heat map was exported depicting the distances between the airway and the stent to the clinician's prescribed stent model. Corresponding histograms containing distances, mean, and standard deviation were reported. It is possible to measure stent fit based on heat map quantification on patient imaging. Observation of the airway over time and stent change suggests that the airway became more open over time requiring increased stent diameters. The ability to design and measure stent fit over time can help quantify the utility and impact of PS silicone airway stent. The airway appears to display plasticity such that there is notable change in stent prescription over time.

Citation: Ntiamoah P, et al. Determination of patient-specific airway stent fit using novel 3D reconstruction measurement techniques: a 4-year follow-up of a patient. Determination of patient-specific airway stent fit using novel 3D reconstruction measurement techniques: a 4-year follow-up of a patient. 2023; 17:17534666221137999. doi: 10.1177/17534666221137999

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37158112/
