PMID: 37154346
Title: Acute Renal Infarction Due to Symptomatic Isolated Spontaneous Renal Artery Dissection: A Rare and Fatal Disease.

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: To report demographics and clinical, laboratory, and imaging features of acute renal infarction (ARI) due to symptomatic isolated spontaneous renal artery dissection (SISRAD) and to analyze outcomes after the initial therapy for SISRAD.
METHODS: Thirteen patients with ARI due to SISRAD between January 2016 and March 2021 were enrolled in this retrospective study. We reviewed the demographics, clinical, laboratory, and imaging features (location of the infarct kidney, the branch artery involved by dissection, true lumen stenosis, false lumen thrombosis, and aneurysm), treatment modalities, and follow-up results; analyzed the difference between SISRAD and other causes of ARI; and propose an appropriate therapy strategy for SISRAD based on our data and literature.
RESULT: Patients with ARI due to SISRAD were mostly young men (43 [24-53] years; 12/13 [92%]). No patients had atrial fibrillation or acute kidney injury at admission (0/13). All 13 patients received conservative treatment as the initial treatment. Sixty-two percent (8/13) of patients progressed, and 88% (7/8) of them had dissection aneurysm on the admission computed tomographic angiography (CTA) image. Seventy-five percent (6/8) of patients underwent endovascular intervention as follows, stent placement in 1 patient, renal artery embolization in 1, and stent placement with embolization in 4. Two patients with disease progression died: 1 during the conservative treatment period and 1 after the stent placement. Thirty-eight percent (5/13) of patients in remission continued to receive conservative treatment, none of whom had dissection aneurysm on the admission CTA.
CONCLUSION: Symptomatic isolated spontaneous renal artery dissection is a rare and fatal disease. For young ARI patients with no previous history of tumors and cardiogenic diseases, CTA examination is recommended to exclude SISRAD. Dissection aneurysm seems to be a risk of progression for SISRAD in this series. Conservative treatment, a recognized initial treatment, has a good effect on patients without dissection aneurysm, and we recommend endovascular intervention as the initial treatment for the patient with dissection aneurysm at admission. Multicenter clinical studies are needed to explore a more-appropriate treatment for patients with SISRAD.
CLINICAL IMPACT: This article report the related factors, risks, demographics and laboratory data of Acute renal infarction (ARI) due to Symptomatic isolated spontaneous renal artery dissection (SISRAD) and explore a better initial therapy strategy for SISRAD. It will help improve the effectiveness of SISRAD treatment and reduce the mortality rate from this rare but lethal disease.

Citation: He Y, et al. Acute Renal Infarction Due to Symptomatic Isolated Spontaneous Renal Artery Dissection: A Rare and Fatal Disease. Acute Renal Infarction Due to Symptomatic Isolated Spontaneous Renal Artery Dissection: A Rare and Fatal Disease. 2023; (unknown volume):15266028231168352. doi: 10.1177/15266028231168352

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37154346/
