PMID: 37157236
Title: Short-Term Patient Outcomes Using the Interlaminar Endoscopic Surgical System Ilessys® Delta System versus Bilateral Laminotomy: A Single-Center Study of 80 Patients with Degenerative Lumbar Spinal Stenosis.

Abstract: BACKGROUND This study from a single center aimed to compare short-term patient outcomes from the Interlaminar Endoscopic Surgical System iLESSYS® Delta system vs bilateral laminotomy in 80 patients with degenerative lumbar spinal stenosis (DLSS). MATERIAL AND METHODS We selected 80 patients with DLSS for the study. Of these, 40 were treated with the iLESSYS® Delta system and 40 were treated with bilateral laminotomy. We followed these patients for 1 year. We recorded and compared data on incision length, operation time and intraoperative blood loss, hospitalization time, postoperative complications, the visual analog scale (VAS), and Oswestry Disability Index (ODI) before, 1 week, 3 months, 6 months, and 12 months after surgery, and the Modified Macnab evaluation criteria. RESULTS The incision length, intraoperative blood loss, and hospitalization time were significantly better in group A than in group B (P<0.05); however, the operation time in group B was shorter than that in group A, and the differences were statistically significant (P<0.05). The VAS and ODI in both groups improved significantly after surgery compared with before the operation. The VAS and ODI in group A patients after surgery were lower than those in group B, and only at 1 week after surgery,(P<0.05). The excellent rate of modified MacNab criteria was not statistically significant between groups A and B (P>0.05). CONCLUSIONS Use of the Interlaminar Endoscopic Surgical System iLESSYS® Delta system can effectively manage DLSS and speed patient recovery.

Citation: Wu D, et al. Short-Term Patient Outcomes Using the Interlaminar Endoscopic Surgical System Ilessys® Delta System versus Bilateral Laminotomy: A Single-Center Study of 80 Patients with Degenerative Lumbar Spinal Stenosis. Short-Term Patient Outcomes Using the Interlaminar Endoscopic Surgical System Ilessys® Delta System versus Bilateral Laminotomy: A Single-Center Study of 80 Patients with Degenerative Lumbar Spinal Stenosis. 2023; 29:e938477. doi: 10.12659/MSM.938477

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37157236/
