PMID: 37158836
Title: Hemichorea secondary to isolated temporal infarction with severe middle cerebral artery stenosis: a case report and review of literature.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Hemichorea typically results from a contralateral subthalamic nuclei (STN) lesion, although it has been reported in the cortex in a minority of cases. However, to our best knowledge, there are no documented cases in literature of hemichorea occurring as a secondary condition to an isolated temporal stroke.
CASE PRESENTATION: We present a case of an elderly female who sustained a sudden onset of hemichorea in her right extremities, predominantly in the distal region, lasting over a period of two days. Brain diffuse weighted image (DWI) demonstrated a high signal in the temporal region, while magnetic resonance angiography (MRA) revealed severe stenosis of the middle cerebral artery. During the symptomatic phase, computed tomography perfusion (CTP) revealed delayed perfusion in the left middle cerebral artery territory, characterized by the time-to-peak (TTP) measure. Based on the results of her medical history and laboratory tests, we were able to rule out the possibility of infectious, toxic, or metabolic encephalopathy. Her symptoms gradually improved with antithrombotic and symptomatic treatment.
CONCLUSIONS: It is important to recognize and consider acute onset hemichorea as an initial symptom of stroke to avoid misdiagnosis and delays in appropriate treatment. Further research on temporal lesion that lead to hemichorea is warranted to gain a better understanding of the underlying mechanisms.

Citation: Dong H, et al. Hemichorea secondary to isolated temporal infarction with severe middle cerebral artery stenosis: a case report and review of literature. Hemichorea secondary to isolated temporal infarction with severe middle cerebral artery stenosis: a case report and review of literature. 2023; 23:186. doi: 10.1186/s12883-023-03230-6

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37158836/
