PMID: 37154995
Title: Risk evaluation of adverse aortic events in patients with non-circular aortic annulus after transcatheter aortic valve implantation: a numerical study.

Abstract: Transcatheter aortic valve implantation (TAVI) is a micro-invasive surgery used to treat patients with aortic stenosis (AS) efficiently. However, the uneven valve expansion can cause a non-circular annulus, which is one of the main factors leading to complications after TAVI. As a preliminary work, the main purpose of this study was to evaluate the risk of adverse aortic events in patients with a non-circular aortic annulus after TAVI. This study numerically investigated the distribution of four wall shear stress (WSS)-based indicators and three helicity-based indicators in eight patient-specific aortas with different annulus including circular, type I elliptical and type II elliptical shapes. Both elliptical annulus features can significantly enhance the intensity of the helicity (h2) in the ascending aorta (p < 0.001). However, for the type I elliptical annulus, the spiral flow structure was changed into low-velocity and disturbed flow pattern close to the inner side of the aortic arch. For the type II elliptical annulus, the spiral flow remained but became skewed in distribution. The elliptical annulus feature could increase the general level WSS-based indicators, especially in the ascending aorta. However, due to the disturbance of spiral flow or second helical flow in ascending aortas, areas with low TAWSS accompanied by high oscillatory shear index (OSI) and cross flow index (CFI) were observed in all the ascending aortas with non-circular annulus. The elliptical annulus feature can change the hemodynamic environment in the aortic arch, especially in the ascending aorta. Although both elliptical annulus features enhanced the strength of helicity, the uniform distribution of the helical flow was disturbed, especially in the ascending aorta, indicating the potential risk of adverse aortic events may increase. Therefore, for the patients without paravalvular leak but elliptical annulus shape after TAVI treatment, surgeons may be needed to consider further dilatation to make the non-circular annulus become circular.

Citation: Wen J, et al. Risk evaluation of adverse aortic events in patients with non-circular aortic annulus after transcatheter aortic valve implantation: a numerical study. Risk evaluation of adverse aortic events in patients with non-circular aortic annulus after transcatheter aortic valve implantation: a numerical study. 2023; 22:1379-1394. doi: 10.1007/s10237-023-01725-2

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37154995/
