PMID: 37151429
Title: Anterior cerebral artery dissection for a patient with ipsilateral aplastic or twig-like middle cerebral artery: An illustrative case report.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: An aplastic or twig-like middle cerebral artery (Ap/T-MCA) is a rare anomaly, which sometimes causes ischemic infarction. Collateral flow from the ipsilateral anterior cerebral artery (ACA) is important for patients with Ap/T-MCA. If ipsilateral ACA stenosis or occlusion occurs, a large infarction with a wider field than the ACA territory could happen. First, mechanical thrombectomy was performed for the right ACA near occlusion caused by arterial dissection with ipsilateral Ap/T-MCA in this case. Second, Wingspan stenting was performed for the right ACA restenosis.
CASE DESCRIPTION: A 77-year-old female presented to the hospital with the left hemiparesis. We diagnosed a right ACA infarction caused by right ACA occlusion. Digital subtraction angiography showed right Ap/T-MCA and ipsilateral ACA near occlusion. Thrombectomy was performed, and recanalization was achieved with mild ACA stenosis. The lesion was the dissection due to angiographical finding. Two months after treatment, transient left hemiparesis occurred and right ACA stenosis progressed. Computed tomography perfusion showed hypoperfusion of the right hemisphere. Wingspan stenting was performed from the left internal carotid artery through the anterior communicating artery with an intermediate catheter. The patient was discharged without any neurological deficit.
CONCLUSION: We reported the first case of a patient who underwent Wingspan stenting for the right ACA dissection with Ap/T-MCA. Short-term follow-up and aggressive intervention should be considered for collateral pathway dissection with Ap/T-MCA because the symptoms can become serious. The patients with Ap/T-MCA should be cautious about the collateral pathway arterial changes in particular ipsilateral ACA due to the increasing hemodynamic stress.

Citation: Terakado T, et al. Anterior cerebral artery dissection for a patient with ipsilateral aplastic or twig-like middle cerebral artery: An illustrative case report. Anterior cerebral artery dissection for a patient with ipsilateral aplastic or twig-like middle cerebral artery: An illustrative case report. 2023; 14:154. doi: 10.25259/SNI_170_2023

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37151429/
