PMID: 37150512
Title: A novel corporoplasty technique with a urethral plate flap in hypospadias repair.

Abstract: OBJECTIVES: To report a novel corporoplasty technique with a urethral plate flap in hypospadias repair and evaluate its safety and efficacy for ventral lengthening.
METHODS: Data were retrospectively collected from consecutive patients with hypospadias who underwent urethral plate flap corporoplasty between July 2021 and March 2022. All patients underwent hypospadias repair using the Duckett technique. The corporoplasty procedure involved the following key steps: the half-spongiosum of the urethral plate was harvested as a flap (with a pedicle attached to the corpus cavernosum); a transverse incision of the tunica albuginea was made adjacent to the pedicle; and the flap was patched onto the corporal defect.
RESULTS: The study included 10 patients, with a median age of 20 months. The initial meatal location was penile in two patients, penoscrotal in four patients, and scrotal in four patients. The median ventral curvature was 45° after degloving and urethral plate transection. The median ventral lengthening distance proportional to penis length was 0.21. During the median follow-up of 13.8 months, complications occurred in three cases, including two cases of fistula and one case of urethral stricture with secondary diverticulum. No cases of recurrent ventral curvature, meatal stenosis, or urethral dehiscence were noted. Postoperative ultrasonography showed a good continuation of the tunica albuginea and integrity of the stratum spongiosum at the corporoplasty site.
CONCLUSIONS: Urethral plate flap corporoplasty is a simple and effective ventral lengthening procedure. The novel corporoplasty technique allows for anatomical and architectural repair of corporal disproportion.

Citation: Ru W, et al. A novel corporoplasty technique with a urethral plate flap in hypospadias repair. A novel corporoplasty technique with a urethral plate flap in hypospadias repair. 2023; 30:666-671. doi: 10.1111/iju.15196

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37150512/
