PMID: 37152914
Title: The feasibility of debranching aortic arch and visceral arteries with sutureless telescoping anastomoses during open aortic aneurysm repair.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Open repair of aortic aneurysms frequently requires reimplantation of major aortic vessels. Traditional techniques can be time consuming, require meticulous hemostasis, and risk aneurysmal patch degeneration, which can require a challenging reoperation. We describe our experience using a stent graft to create a sutureless anastomosis that obviates these drawbacks.
METHODS: Between April 2018 and March 2021, all consecutive adult patients who underwent open repair of the aorta with at least one supra-aortic trunk or visceral vessel reimplanted using the sutureless anastomotic technique were included. Anastomoses were constructed by bridging a branch graft and the target artery with a Viabahn self-expanding stent (W.L. Gore & Associates, Flagstaff, AZ). Clinical information and perioperative outcomes for the patients were collected and analyzed.
RESULTS: Among 26 patients, 50 individual aortic vessels were debranched using sutureless self-expanding stent anastomoses, including 42 visceral vessels and 8 supra-aortic trunk vessels. Technical success was 100%. The median time to complete the anastomosis was 3 minutes, 12 seconds (range, 2-6 minutes). Perioperative mortality was 15% (n = 4). No stent-related complications, such as occlusion, bleeding, stroke, renal failure requiring hemodialysis, bowel ischemia, or the need for anastomotic reintervention, occurred. Follow-up imaging at 1 year revealed a 100% patency rate and no anastomotic stenosis, misalignment, or kinking.
CONCLUSIONS: The sutureless anastomosis technique to debranch the aorta during open aortic aneurysm repair is technically feasible and reliably hemostatic and does not require early reintervention. The operative outcomes have been acceptable, and the short-term follow-up imaging findings demonstrated excellent patency without anastomotic kinking. In select cases, sutureless anastomoses are a possible alternative to traditional sutured anastomoses during aortic debranching. Further research is needed to compare the operative times and long-term patency of sutureless anastomosis to those of traditional sutured techniques.

Citation: Sherazee EA, et al. The feasibility of debranching aortic arch and visceral arteries with sutureless telescoping anastomoses during open aortic aneurysm repair. The feasibility of debranching aortic arch and visceral arteries with sutureless telescoping anastomoses during open aortic aneurysm repair. 2023; 9:101159. doi: 10.1016/j.jvscit.2023.101159

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37152914/
