PMID: 37150659
Title: Single-Center Experience in Managing Right Liver Grafts From Trifurcation or Independent Right Posterior Portal Vein in Adult Living Donor Liver Transplantation.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: The right liver graft has sometimes been from the trifurcation portal vein (TPV) or independent right posterior portal vein (IRPPV). Managing these PV anatomies to increase the recipient's survival rate remains challenging. Many published techniques could overcome this problem, such as simple unification venoplasty (SUV), autologous portal Y-graft interposition, conjoined unification venoplasty (CUV) with a baseball-like conduit, and SUV plus circumferential fence-like vein extension. This study reviewed our strategy for managing the right liver grafts from TPV or IRPPV in adult living donor liver transplantation (aLDLT).
METHODS: We enrolled the study population who underwent aLDLT using the grafts with TPV or IRPPV at our institute from October 2004 to October 2022. We analyzed the reconstruction methods for these grafts and postoperative PV complications in donors and recipients.
RESULTS: During the study period, of 528 aLDLT recipients, we identified 26 donors with TPV (n = 10) or IRPPV (n = 16). Eight grafts from TPV had a single PV orifice. The other 18 grafts had dual right PVs that underwent initial PV management, including SUV (n = 13), recipient's right and left portal veins to graft's dual PVs (n = 2), Y-graft interposition (n = 1), CUV (n = 1) and SUV with fence-like vein extension (n = 1). One SUV graft changed to fence venoplasty due to significant tension for PV anastomosis. The acute right posterior PV thrombus and anterior PV stenosis happened in 2 cases with Y-graft interposition and native PVs direct anastomosis. One donor with TPV had portal vein thrombosis and needed thrombectomy with vein patch repair.
CONCLUSIONS: The graft from TPV should be carefully planned. A single PV orifice may be feasible but not always possible. An SUV could cover most IRPPVs, but if the distance between the right anterior and posterior PVs is a problem, CUV would be an alternative method. In addition, SUVs with fence venoplasty could relieve PV anastomosis tension.

Citation: Chen CY, et al. Single-Center Experience in Managing Right Liver Grafts From Trifurcation or Independent Right Posterior Portal Vein in Adult Living Donor Liver Transplantation. Single-Center Experience in Managing Right Liver Grafts From Trifurcation or Independent Right Posterior Portal Vein in Adult Living Donor Liver Transplantation. 2023; 55:888-892. doi: 10.1016/j.transproceed.2023.03.047

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37150659/
