PMID: 37164170
Title: Systematic Review on Magnetic Resonance Angiography with Vessel Wall Imaging for the Characterization of Symptomatic Carotid Artery Plaque.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: To perform a systematic literature review to assess the usefulness of performing magnetic resonance angiography (MRA) with vessel wall imaging (VWI) sequences for the assessment of symptomatic carotid artery plaques and the identification of risky plaque features predisposing for stroke.
METHODS: We performed a systematic review of the literature pertaining to MRA with VWI techniques in patients with carotid artery disease, focusing on symptomatic patients' plaque features and morphology. Independent reviewers screened and analyzed data extracted from eligible studies, and a modified Newcastle-Ottawa Scale was used to appraise the quality of the design and content of the selected manuscripts to achieve an accurate interpretation.
RESULTS: This review included nineteen peer-reviewed manuscripts, all of them including MRA and VWI assessments of the symptomatic carotid artery plaque. We focused on patients' comorbidities and reviewed plaque features, including intraplaque hemorrhage, a lipid-rich necrotic core, a ruptured fibrous cap, and plaque ulceration.
CONCLUSIONS: MRA with VWI is a useful tool in the evaluation of carotid artery plaques. This imaging technique allows clinicians to identify plaques at risk of causing a neurovascular event. The presence of intraplaque hemorrhage, plaque ulceration, a ruptured fibrous cap, and a lipid-rich necrotic core are associated with neurovascular symptoms. The timely identification of these features could have a positive impact on neurovascular event prevention.

Citation: Lozano Gonzalez R, et al. Systematic Review on Magnetic Resonance Angiography with Vessel Wall Imaging for the Characterization of Symptomatic Carotid Artery Plaque. Systematic Review on Magnetic Resonance Angiography with Vessel Wall Imaging for the Characterization of Symptomatic Carotid Artery Plaque. 2023; 95:224-232. doi: 10.1016/j.avsg.2023.04.026

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37164170/
