PMID: 37167147
Title: [Difficult case of differential diagnosis of partial lung atelectasis. Case report].

Abstract: In December 2018 the patient over 60 years old sought medical help with complaints of persistent cough. Based on computed tomography data there were identified the sings (symptoms) of right lung lower lobe atelectasis. To run this patient diagnostics there were performed 6 bronchoscopies narrowed down by bronchi checks up only and described the right lung central cancer picture. At the same time the biopsy taken during one of the bronchoscopies appeared non informative. Fine needle biopsy of mediastinal lymph nodes and bronchial wall was performed twice: at Tomsk Cancer Research Institute (it was suspected B-cell lymphoma based on biopsy examination) and at The Loginov Moscow Clinical Scientific Center (signs of inflammation based on biopsy examination). The video-assisted thoracoscopy with lymph node dissection of the right lung root was performed in January 2020. As a surgical material analysis result reactive adenopathy was determined. Therefore, during more than 1 year of diagnostic research the genesis of right lung lower lobe atelectasis was not established. The patient was directed to Central Tuberculosis Research Institute for diagnosis verification. Based on clinical and radiological picture Central Tuberculosis Research Institute colleagues suspected a foreign body in the intermediate bronchus. During an endoscopic examination it was revealed stenosis, biopsies were performed, but the foreign body could not be identified. In the pathomorphological laboratory of Central Tuberculosis Research Institute there were conducted histological examination of the material after endobronchial cryobiopsy and rigid needle biopsy. Both gave an unexpected result: invasive mycosis of the bronchial wall. As a conclusion the decision was taken to apply antimycotic therapy on an outpatient basis. As a result, clear clinical and radiological positive dynamics was obtained. In these favorable conditions for endoscopic examination, it was performed vitally essential cryoextraction of foreign body. The foreign body turned out to be a fragment of a spongy bone of a centimeter size. These actions have let to unlock the right lung lower lobe.

Citation: Gordeeva OM, et al. [Difficult case of differential diagnosis of partial lung atelectasis. Case report]. [Difficult case of differential diagnosis of partial lung atelectasis. Case report]. 2023; 95:248-254. doi: 10.26442/00403660.2023.03.202074

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37167147/
