PMID: 37168362
Title: Hemostatic protocol and risk-reduction surgery for treating coronary artery disease with aortic stenosis in a patient with combined coagulation factor VIII and XI deficiency: a case report.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Cardiac surgery remains a significant challenge in patients with coagulation factor VIII (FVIII) deficiency, especially in those with multiple factor deficiencies.
CASE SUMMARY: A 79-year-old man with combined FVIII and factor XI (FXI) deficiency was admitted for heart failure treatment. Transthoracic echocardiography revealed aortic stenosis (AS) with decreased left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) of 40%, mean aortic pressure gradient of 21 mmHg, and aortic valve area of 0.58 cm2. Coronary angiography revealed significant triple-vessel disease. The patient had multiple comorbidities, including diabetic end-stage renal disease treated with hemodialysis and liver cirrhosis (Child-Pugh score of A). Considering the high surgical risk, a two-stage treatment strategy was developed: the first with off-pump coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG), and the second with transcatheter aortic valve implantation if AS symptoms were significant after CABG. A perioperative hemostatic protocol by the author's heart team was used to appropriately replenish recombinant FVIII concentrates and fresh frozen plasma. The target preoperative and postoperative FVIII coagulation activity values were set at 80-100% and 60-80%, respectively, whereas the target perioperative FXI coagulation activity value was set at 30-45%. Off-pump CABG without aortic manipulation was completed without bleeding events. Transthoracic echocardiography conducted 20 months postoperatively revealed LVEF of 65% and mean aortic pressure gradient of 31 mmHg. The patient leads a normal life 21 months after surgery.
DISCUSSION: The hemostatic protocol and risk-reduction surgery provided satisfactory surgical results in a patient with significant coronary artery disease and AS, high-surgical-risks, and combined FVIII and FXI deficiency.

Citation: Honda S, et al. Hemostatic protocol and risk-reduction surgery for treating coronary artery disease with aortic stenosis in a patient with combined coagulation factor VIII and XI deficiency: a case report. Hemostatic protocol and risk-reduction surgery for treating coronary artery disease with aortic stenosis in a patient with combined coagulation factor VIII and XI deficiency: a case report. 2023; 7:ytad219. doi: 10.1093/ehjcr/ytad219

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37168362/
