PMID: 37165590
Title: Role of Fibrinogen in Type-2 Diabetes Mellitus with Diabetic Neuropathy and its Preliminary Mechanism.

Abstract: INTRODUCTION: Diabetic peripheral neuropathy (DN) is the most common complication of type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM).
OBJECTIVE: This study aimed to explore the role of fibrinogen (FIB) in T2DM neuropathy and its preliminary mechanism.
METHODS: Ten male Sprague-Dawley rats were divided into a normal control group (NC group) and a T2DM neuropathy model group (DN group). The DN group was given a high-energy diet and streptozotocin, while the NC group was given a normal diet and a citric acid buffer. The expression levels of related proteins were analysed.
RESULTS: Electrophysiology: Compared with the NC group, the conduction latency of the somatosensory-evoked potential and nerve conduction velocity was prolonged in the DN group, while the motor nerve action potential was decreased. As seen under a light microscope, the peripheral nerve fibres in the DN group were swollen, and the nerve fibres in the posterior funiculus of the spinal cord were loose or missing. Moreover, as seen under an electron microscope, the peripheral nerve demyelination of the DN group was severe, with microvascular blood coagulation, luminal stenosis, and collapse. Compared with the NC group, in the DN group, the expression of FIB was positively correlated with the expression of both ionised calcium-binding adaptor molecule-1 and glial fibrillary acidic protein. Compared with the NC group, in the DN group, the expression of platelet/endothelial cell adhesion molecule-1 and B-cell lymphoma 2 was negatively correlated.
CONCLUSION: The increased concentration of FIB may be the cause of neuropathy, and its mechanism may be related to its promotion of inflammatory response, blood coagulation, and vascular stenosis.

Citation: Gu WL, et al. Role of Fibrinogen in Type-2 Diabetes Mellitus with Diabetic Neuropathy and its Preliminary Mechanism. Role of Fibrinogen in Type-2 Diabetes Mellitus with Diabetic Neuropathy and its Preliminary Mechanism. 2023; 30:486-497. doi: 10.2174/0929866530666230509140515

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37165590/
