PMID: 37164207
Title: Radiological Outcomes of Unilateral Laminotomy for Bilateral Decompression in Lumbar Spinal Stenosis With and Without Discectomy.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Unilateral laminotomy for bilateral decompression (ULBD) is a minimally invasive surgical technique widely used in patients with lumbar spinal stenosis and low-grade spondylolisthesis. However, few studies have investigated the long-term effects of the unilateral approach of ULBD on postoperative coronal imbalance, and the effect of additional discectomy on ULBD has not yet been evaluated in detail.
METHODS: Sixty-one patients with lumbar spinal stenosis who underwent ULBD with or without discectomy were identified. The ULBD with discectomy group included 27 patients, and the ULBD without discectomy group included 34 patients. We analyzed the changes in various radiographic parameters, such as global lordosis (GL), segmental lordosis (SL), global coronal angle (GCA), segmental coronal angle (SCA), disc height (DH), global range of motion (GROM), and segmental range of motion (SROM) following the surgery and compared these parameters between the two groups.
RESULTS: In patients who underwent ULBD with discectomy, segmental coronal angle (SCA) significantly decreased from 0.42 ± 4.41 (°±SD) preoperatively to -0.31 ± 4.87 postoperatively (P = 0.026), while disc height (DH) decreased from 8.80 ± 2.49 (mm ± SD) to 7.32 ± 2.60 (P < 0.001). These findings suggest a reduction in convexity as disc height decreased on the laminotomy side. However, the absolute SCA value tended to approach 0° postoperatively regardless of discectomy, indicating that the preoperative scoliosis has improved. In both groups, the lordotic angles and range of motion (ROM) parameters showed no changes before and after surgery.
CONCLUSIONS: ULBD preserved lumbar lordosis and motion with or without discectomy during the 2-year follow-up period. Improvement in coronal balance was observed after ULBD regardless of discectomy, without significant negative effects on sagittal and coronal spine stability.

Citation: Cho HS, et al. Radiological Outcomes of Unilateral Laminotomy for Bilateral Decompression in Lumbar Spinal Stenosis With and Without Discectomy. Radiological Outcomes of Unilateral Laminotomy for Bilateral Decompression in Lumbar Spinal Stenosis With and Without Discectomy. 2023; 175:e1307-e1314. doi: 10.1016/j.wneu.2023.04.124

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37164207/
