PMID: 37164740
Title: Repetitive postoperative extubation failure due to dynamic inspiratory airway collapse concomitant with subglottic stenosis in a patient who previously underwent tracheostomy.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: This report describes a case of dynamic inspiratory airway collapse concomitant with subglottic stenosis in a patient who previously underwent tracheostomy that led to repeated post-operative extubation failure.
CASE PRESENTATION: A 43-year-old woman who had undergone tracheostomy 25 years previously was admitted to our intensive-care unit (ICU) after coronary artery bypass graft surgery. On postoperative day (POD) 0, she was extubated, but stridor was observed. We suspected upper airway obstruction and she was therefore reintubated. Before reintubation, urgent laryngotracheoscopy revealed dynamic inspiratory airway collapse and obstruction concomitant with subglottic stenosis. Preoperative computed tomography showed mild subglottic stenosis. Although intravenous corticosteroids were administered to prevent tracheal mucosal edema and a cuff leak test was confirmed to be negative, she developed extubation failure on POD6. On POD12, we performed tracheostomy to reduce mechanical irritation from the endotracheal tube. Mechanical ventilation was withdrawn and she discharged from the ICU. On POD33, her tracheostomy tube was removed and she remained clinically asymptomatic.
CONCLUSIONS: We should be aware of the history of tracheostomy, especially at high tracheostomy sites, even in the absence of respiratory symptoms as risk factors for dynamic inspiratory airway collapse concomitant with subglottic stenosis contributing to repeated respiratory failure after extubation. J. Med. Invest. 70 : 301-305, February, 2023.

Citation: Nakano Y, et al. Repetitive postoperative extubation failure due to dynamic inspiratory airway collapse concomitant with subglottic stenosis in a patient who previously underwent tracheostomy. Repetitive postoperative extubation failure due to dynamic inspiratory airway collapse concomitant with subglottic stenosis in a patient who previously underwent tracheostomy. 2023; 70:301-305. doi: 10.2152/jmi.70.301

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37164740/
