PMID: 37166621
Title: Improvement of esophagojejunostomy technique after total gastrectomy with overlap method: reduce the difficulty of surgery and shorten operation time.

Abstract: Gastric cancer (GC) is one of the most malignant human cancers. Totally laparoscopic total gastrectomy (TLTG) is a difficult operation, especially esophagojejunostomy. Our team has adopted the method of suspending and pulling the esophagus with the visceral retractor and two needles of barbed wire interlocking to suture the common opening, which reduces the difficulty of the operation. From January to December 2020, 20 patients underwent TLTG with the overlap method by improved esophagojejunostomy technique and 20 patients with the traditional overlap method after TLTG were used as the control group. The surgery was performed using a five-trocar system. After lymphadenectomy, the esophagus was separated at least 2 cm from the upper edge of the tumor. Improved esophagojejunostomy technique was completed by the following steps: (1) cutting end of the esophagus suspension; (2) jejuno-jejunostomy; (3) esophagojejunostomy; (4) close the esophagojejunum common incision opening. The results showed that the operative time, and anastomosis time of the modified group were shorter than those of the traditional group, There were no postoperative complications such as anastomotic leakage, anastomotic stenosis, duodenal stump fistula and Roux stasis syndrome in the both group. There was no statistically significant difference in postoperative complications between the two groups. Taken together, our modified esophagojejunostomy technique after total gastrectomy is feasible and safe. This procedure is an efficient method to shorten the operation time and reduce the difficulty of surgery in esophagojejunostomy of laparoscopic total gastrectomy.

Citation: Cui X, et al. Improvement of esophagojejunostomy technique after total gastrectomy with overlap method: reduce the difficulty of surgery and shorten operation time. Improvement of esophagojejunostomy technique after total gastrectomy with overlap method: reduce the difficulty of surgery and shorten operation time. 2023; 75:1355-1360. doi: 10.1007/s13304-023-01526-3

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37166621/
