PMID: 37169248
Title: Relationship Between Intimal Thickness on Ultrasonography and Long-Term Patency of Arteriovenous Fistula Restenosis After Cutting Balloon Versus High Pressure Balloon Angioplasty.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: To investigate the relationship between intimal thickness on ultrasonography and long-term patency of arteriovenous fistula restenosis after cutting balloon and high pressure balloon angioplasty.
METHODS: We retrospectively compared the outcomes between cutting balloon angioplasty and high pressure balloon angioplasty in 149 patients with hemodialysis access restenosis. The relationship of intimal thickness and primary assisted patency of hemodialysis access on ultrasonography was investigated as the primary outcome, using Kaplan-Meier survival analysis and Cox proportional hazards model. The second outcomes included residual diameter, blood flow, and venous pressure of hemodialysis access before and after angiography and balloon diameter and inflation pressure.
RESULTS: Primary assisted patency in cutting balloon angioplasty was 90.6%, which was significantly (P = 0.001) more than that of 37.9% in high pressure balloon angioplasty during the 20-month follow-up period. Cox proportional hazards model screened significant factors including procedure type (high pressure or cutting, P = 0.004), inflation pressure (P = 0.013), preoperative intimal thickness (P = 0.009), and difference of intimal thickness (P = 0.029). Finally, procedure type (P = 0.012) and preoperative intimal thickness (P = 0.033) were identified for predicting primary assisted patency by multivariate Cox proportional hazards model.
CONCLUSIONS: Compared to high pressure balloon angioplasty for treating patients with hemodialysis access restenosis, cutting balloon angioplasty had a better primary assisted patency. The increase of intimal thickness on ultrasonography after angiography was inversely correlated with primary assisted patency.

Citation: Zhu RZ, et al. Relationship Between Intimal Thickness on Ultrasonography and Long-Term Patency of Arteriovenous Fistula Restenosis After Cutting Balloon Versus High Pressure Balloon Angioplasty. Relationship Between Intimal Thickness on Ultrasonography and Long-Term Patency of Arteriovenous Fistula Restenosis After Cutting Balloon Versus High Pressure Balloon Angioplasty. 2023; 96:322-327. doi: 10.1016/j.avsg.2023.04.035

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37169248/
