PMID: 37176570
Title: Prophylactic Treatment with Vedolizumab in the Prevention of Postoperative Recurrence (POR) in High-Risk Crohn's Patients.

Abstract: About 50% of Crohn's Disease (CD) patients undergo an intestinal resection during their lifetime. Although the patients experience a fairly long period of well-being after the intestinal resection, they presented a postoperative recurrence (POR) in 40% of cases within 5 years. In this case series, we aimed to evaluate the incidence of POR in CD patients with high risk for early POR, prophylactically treated with Vedolizumab. All consecutive CD patients (followed from 2017 to 2020) who underwent ileocolonic resection after the loss of response at anti-Tumor Necrosis Factor α (anti-TNFα) and with one or more risk factors for early POR were included. POR was defined as a Rutgeerts score (Ri) > 1 at the colonoscopic evaluation. All the included patients underwent a Magnetic resonance enterography (MRE) at least one year after the surgical resection. Six patients (4 Female; 2 Males) were included. At the first endoscopic evaluation, all patients were in endoscopic remission (5 patients Ri 0; 1 patient Ri 1). No stenosis nor other intestinal wall changes or complications were observed at MRE. Five patients underwent colonoscopy over two years of follow-up (median: 32 months; range 25-33). The Ri score was 0 in four patients, while the fifth patient showed severe endoscopic relapse. The same patient presented a clinical relapse (Harvey-Bradshaw index = 10) with a flare of disease in the colonic mucosa. These data suggest that early post-operative treatment with Vedolizumab could be a valuable strategy to be submitted to a prospective controlled trial for preventing POR.

Citation: Frieri G, et al. Prophylactic Treatment with Vedolizumab in the Prevention of Postoperative Recurrence (POR) in High-Risk Crohn's Patients. Prophylactic Treatment with Vedolizumab in the Prevention of Postoperative Recurrence (POR) in High-Risk Crohn's Patients. 2023; 12:(unknown pages). doi: 10.3390/jcm12093130

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37176570/
