PMID: 37176757
Title: The Allium Ureteral Stent for the Treatment of Ureteral Complications Following Renal Transplantation-A Single-Center, Single-Surgeon Series.

Abstract: Ureteral complications such as urinary leak, ureteral necrosis or ureteral stenosis are common complications after renal transplantation with major short- and long-term issues, including graft impairment and graft loss. At present, there is no agreement on the optimal management of ureteral complications. The aim of the current study was to evaluate the safety and efficacy of the self-expanding, large-caliber Allium ureteral stent in patients with ureteral complications following renal transplantation. In this retrospective study, the electronic database of Charité University Hospital was screened for patients receiving the self-expandable Allium ureteral stent in the transplant ureter after kidney transplantation between January 2016 and March 2022. Descriptive statistics were used to describe the outcomes. There were six men and four women with a median age of 61 years (interquartile range, 55 to 68 years). Nine out of 10 patients had ureteric stenosis, which was diagnosed at a median of two years (interquartile range 10 months to 9 years) following renal transplantation. The median operating time was 49 min (interquartile range, 30 to 60 min). Endoscopic Allium stent placement was successful in all patients with ureteric stenosis. The median length of stay in the hospital was four days (interquartile range 2 to 7 days). Only one patient (#5) had a postoperative grade IIIb Clavien-Dindo complication. Patients had follow-ups every 3 months with ultrasound and serum creatinine. Dislocation of the Allium stent was seen in four patients; all occurred within three months. Ultimately, three patients required ureteric re-implantation, two of which had early dislocation of the stent. Six patients are managed with a permanent Allium stent. The median dwell time was 11 months (interquartile range 3 to 20 months) and maximum dwell time was 23 months. The overall success rate was 60% (6 out of 10). According to our data, the Allium stent represents a safe and minimally invasive option with a success rate of 60%. It might, therefore, represent an alternative to DJ stents, nephrostomies or immediate re-implantation. As all dislocations occurred within three months, frequent early postoperative follow-up is required.

Citation: Weinberger S, et al. The Allium Ureteral Stent for the Treatment of Ureteral Complications Following Renal Transplantation-A Single-Center, Single-Surgeon Series. The Allium Ureteral Stent for the Treatment of Ureteral Complications Following Renal Transplantation-A Single-Center, Single-Surgeon Series. 2023; 12:(unknown pages). doi: 10.3390/jcm12093317

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37176757/
