PMID: 37174617
Title: Development of an In Vitro Blood Vessel Model Using Autologous Endothelial Cells Generated from Footprint-Free hiPSCs to Analyze Interactions of the Endothelium with Blood Cell Components and Vascular Implants.

Abstract: Cardiovascular diseases are the leading cause of death globally. Vascular implants, such as stents, are required to treat arterial stenosis or dilatation. The development of innovative stent materials and coatings, as well as novel preclinical testing strategies, is needed to improve the bio- and hemocompatibility of current stents. In this study, a blood vessel-like polydimethylsiloxane (PDMS) model was established to analyze the interaction of an endothelium with vascular implants, as well as blood-derived cells, in vitro. Using footprint-free human induced pluripotent stem cells (hiPSCs) and subsequent differentiation, functional endothelial cells (ECs) expressing specific markers were generated and used to endothelialize an artificial PDMS lumen. The established model was used to demonstrate the interaction of the created endothelium with blood-derived immune cells, which also allowed for real-time imaging. In addition, a stent was inserted into the endothelialized lumen to analyze the surface endothelialization of stents. In the future, this blood vessel-like model could serve as an in vitro platform to test the influence of vascular implants and coatings on endothelialization and to analyze the interaction of the endothelium with blood cell components.

Citation: Weber J, et al. Development of an In Vitro Blood Vessel Model Using Autologous Endothelial Cells Generated from Footprint-Free hiPSCs to Analyze Interactions of the Endothelium with Blood Cell Components and Vascular Implants. Development of an In Vitro Blood Vessel Model Using Autologous Endothelial Cells Generated from Footprint-Free hiPSCs to Analyze Interactions of the Endothelium with Blood Cell Components and Vascular Implants. 2023; 12:(unknown pages). doi: 10.3390/cells12091217

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37174617/
