PMID: 37180474
Title: Risk of Coronary Occlusion Due to Sinus Sequestration by Redo Transcatheter Aortic Valve Implantation in Japanese Patients With SAPIEN 3.

Abstract: Background: Transcatheter aortic valve (TAV)-in-TAV is an attractive treatment for degenerated TAV. The risk of coronary artery occlusion due to sequestration of the sinus of Valsalva (SOV) in TAV-in-TAV has been reported, but the risk in Japanese patients is unknown. This study aimed to investigate the proportion of Japanese patients who are expected to experience difficulty with the second TAV implantation (TAVI) and evaluate the possibility of reducing the risk of coronary artery occlusion. Methods and Results: Patients (n=308) with an implanted SAPIEN 3 were divided into 2 groups: a high-risk group, which included patients with a TAV-sinotubular junction (STJ) distance &lt;2 mm and a risk plane above the STJ (n=121); and a low-risk group, which included all other patients (n=187). The preoperative SOV diameter, mean STJ diameter, and STJ height were significantly larger in the low-risk group (P&lt;0.05). The cut-off value for predicting the risk of SOV sequestration due to TAV-in-TAV in the difference between the mean STJ diameter and area-derived annulus diameter was 3.0 mm (sensitivity 70%; specificity 68%; area under the curve 0.74). Conclusions: Japanese patients may have a higher risk for sinus sequestration caused by TAV-in-TAV. The risk of sinus sequestration should be assessed before the first TAVI in young patients who are likely to require TAV-in-TAV, and whether TAVI is the best aortic valve therapy must be carefully decided.

Citation: Sato S, et al. Risk of Coronary Occlusion Due to Sinus Sequestration by Redo Transcatheter Aortic Valve Implantation in Japanese Patients With SAPIEN 3. Risk of Coronary Occlusion Due to Sinus Sequestration by Redo Transcatheter Aortic Valve Implantation in Japanese Patients With SAPIEN 3. 2023; 5:217-224. doi: 10.1253/circrep.CR-23-0039

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37180474/
