PMID: 37180313
Title: Endoscopic calcium electroporation for colorectal cancer: a phase I study.

Abstract: Background and study aims  Colorectal cancer is one of the most common malignancies, with approximately 20 % of patients having metastatic disease. Local symptoms from the tumor remain a common issue and affect quality of life. Electroporation is a method to permeabilize cell membranes with high-voltage pulses, allowing increased passage of otherwise poorly permeating substances such as calcium. The aim of this study was to determine the safety of calcium electroporation for advanced colorectal cancer. Patients and methods  Six patients with inoperable rectal and sigmoid colon cancer were included, all presenting with local symptoms. Patients were offered endoscopic calcium electroporation and were followed up with endoscopy and computed tomography/magnetic resonance scans. Biopsies and blood samples were collected at baseline and at follow-up, 4, 8, and 12 weeks after treatment. Biopsies were examined for histological changes and immunohistochemically with CD3/CD8 and PD-L1. In addition, blood samples were examined for circulating cell-free DNA (cfDNA). Results  A total of 10 procedures were performed and no serious adverse events occurred. Prior to inclusion, patients reported local symptoms, such as bleeding (N = 3), pain (N = 2), and stenosis (N = 5). Five of six patients reported symptom relief. In one patient, also receiving systemic chemotherapy, clinical complete response of primary tumor was seen. Immunohistochemistry found no significant changes in CD3 /CD8 levels or cfDNA levels after treatment. Conclusions  This first study of calcium electroporation for colorectal tumors shows that calcium electroporation is a safe and feasible treatment modality for colorectal cancer. It can be performed as an outpatient treatment and may potentially be of great value for fragile patients with limited treatment options.

Citation: Broholm M, et al. Endoscopic calcium electroporation for colorectal cancer: a phase I study. Endoscopic calcium electroporation for colorectal cancer: a phase I study. 2023; 11:E451-E459. doi: 10.1055/a-2033-9831

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37180313/
