PMID: 37186564
Title: Myocardial infarction with nonobstructive coronary arteries: from pathophysiology to therapeutic strategies.

Abstract: Myocardial infarction with nonobstructive coronary arteries (MINOCA) is a heterogeneous group of clinical entities characterized by clinical evidence of acute myocardial infarction (AMI) with normal or near-normal coronary arteries on coronary angiography (stenosis < 50%) and without an over the alternative diagnosis for the acute presentation. Its prevalence ranges from 6% to 11% among all patients with AMI, with a predominance of young, nonwhite females with fewer traditional risks than those with an obstructive coronary artery disease (MI-CAD). MINOCA can be due to either epicardial causes such as rupture or fissuring of unstable nonobstructive atherosclerotic plaque, coronary artery spasm, spontaneous coronary dissection and cardioembolism in-situ or microvascular causes. Besides, also type-2 AMI due to supply-demand mismatch and Takotsubo syndrome must be considered as a possible MINOCA cause. Because of the complex etiology and a limited amount of evidence, there is still some confusion around the management and treatment of these patients. Therefore, the key focus of this condition is to identify the underlying individual mechanisms to achieve patient-specific treatments. Clinical history, electrocardiogram, echocardiography, and coronary angiography represent the first-level diagnostic investigations, but coronary imaging with intravascular ultrasound and optical coherent tomography, coronary physiology testing, and cardiac magnetic resonance imaging offer additional information to understand the underlying cause of MINOCA. Although the prognosis is slightly better compared with MI-CAD patients, MINOCA is not always benign and depends on the etiopathology. This review analyzes all possible pathophysiological mechanisms that could lead to MINOCA and provides the most specific and appropriate therapeutic approach in each scenario.

Citation: Foà A, et al. Myocardial infarction with nonobstructive coronary arteries: from pathophysiology to therapeutic strategies. Myocardial infarction with nonobstructive coronary arteries: from pathophysiology to therapeutic strategies. 2023; 24:e134-e146. doi: 10.2459/JCM.0000000000001439

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37186564/
