PMID: 37181028
Title: A mid- and long-team follow-up study of the application of single-valved bovine pericardium patches in right ventricular outflow tract reconstruction.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Pulmonary regurgitation following right ventricular outflow tract (RVOT) reconstruction may cause right heart dysfunction and even right heart failure. Installation of a single valve at this time point can effectively reduce pulmonary regurgitation, thereby protecting right heart function. Here, we analyzed the outcomes and mid- and long-term follow-up data of patients undergoing single-valved bovine pericardium patch (svBPP) placement for reconstruction and explored the effectiveness and gaps of svBPP in preventing right heart failure.
METHODS: A retrospective analysis was performed on patients undergoing RVOT reconstruction using BalMonocTM svBPP from October 2010 to August 2020. The follow up procedures included outpatient visits and collection of outcomes. The cardiac ultrasound-related indicators during the follow-up visits included ejection fraction (EF), right ventricular end-diastolic diameter (EDD), pulmonary regurgitation, and pulmonary artery stenosis. The survival rates and reoperation-free rate were analyzed by Kaplan-Meier method.
RESULTS: Patients includes tetralogy of Fallot, pulmonary atresia and other complex congenital heart disease. A total of 5 patients (5.7%) died during the perioperative period. Early complications included pleural effusion, cardiac insufficiency, respiratory insufficiency, chylothorax, and atelectasis, all of which were cured. After discharge, 83 patients (94.3%) were effectively followed up. During follow-up, 1 patient died and 1 patient underwent reoperation. The 1-, 5-, and 10-year survival rates were 98.8%, 98.8%, and 98.8%, respectively, and the reintervention-free rates for the same intervals were 98.8%, 98.8%, and 98.8%, respectively. The last follow-up ultrasound revealed severe pulmonary stenosis in 0 cases, moderate stenosis in 2 cases, mild stenosis in 7 cases, and no stenosis in 73 cases. Pulmonary regurgitation was not found in 12 patients; however, there were 2 cases of severe pulmonary regurgitation, 20 cases of moderate pulmonary regurgitation, and 48 cases of mild pulmonary regurgitation.
CONCLUSIONS: As shown in the mid- and long-term follow-up studies, BalMonocTM svBPP has good performance in RVOT reconstruction. It can effectively eliminate or reduce pulmonary valve regurgitation and protect right heart function. Both réparation à l'Etage ventriculaire (REV) and the modified Barbero-Marcial procedure can bring growth potential and reduce reoperation rate.

Citation: Huang J, et al. A mid- and long-team follow-up study of the application of single-valved bovine pericardium patches in right ventricular outflow tract reconstruction. A mid- and long-team follow-up study of the application of single-valved bovine pericardium patches in right ventricular outflow tract reconstruction. 2023; 12:600-607. doi: 10.21037/tp-23-97

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37181028/
