PMID: 37187971
Title: Early recurrence of attack after myocardial infarction with non-obstructive coronary arteries: a case report.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Diagnostic strategies depend on non-standardized workup, and the causes of myocardial infarction with non-obstructive coronary arteries remain unclear for some patients. Intracoronary imaging is recommended for detecting the missed causes by coronary angiography. Myocardial infarction with non-obstructive coronary arteries is a heterogeneous entity; a meta-analysis of myocardial infarction with non-obstructive coronary artery studies demonstrated that all-cause mortality rate at 1 year is 4.7%, and its prognosis is not so favourable.
CASE SUMMARY: A 62-year-old man without remarkable medical history complained of acute chest pain at rest, which resolved at his arrival. Although echocardiography and electrocardiogram exhibited normal findings, the concentration of high-sensitive cardiac troponin T increased up to 0.384 from 0.04 ng/mL. Coronary angiography was performed, and mild stenosis of the proximal right coronary artery was detected. He was discharged without catheter intervention and medications as he reported no symptoms. He returned 8 days later because of inferoposterior ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction with ventricular fibrillation. Emergent coronary angiography showed that the mild stenosis of the proximal right coronary artery had progressed to total occlusion. Optical coherence tomography after thrombectomy revealed rupture of the thin-cap fibroatheroma and protruding thrombus.
DISCUSSION: Patients presenting with myocardial infarction with non-obstructive coronary arteries and plaque disruption and/or thrombus detected by optical coherence tomography do not show normal coronaries on coronary angiography. Aggressive investigation into plaque disruption using intracoronary imaging is recommended even if coronary angiography demonstrates mild stenosis to prevent a fatal attack for suspicious cases of myocardial infarction with non-obstructive coronary arteries.

Citation: Morooka M, et al. Early recurrence of attack after myocardial infarction with non-obstructive coronary arteries: a case report. Early recurrence of attack after myocardial infarction with non-obstructive coronary arteries: a case report. 2023; 7:ytad225. doi: 10.1093/ehjcr/ytad225

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37187971/
