PMID: 37182254
Title: Coronary Lithotripsy as Elective or Bail-Out Strategy After Rotational Atherectomy in the Rota-Shock Registry.

Abstract: Debulking lesions with severe coronary artery calcification (CAC) is highly recommended to obtain good procedural and long-term success. Utilization and performance of coronary intravascular lithotripsy (IVL) after rotational atherectomy (RA) has not been thoroughly studied. This study aimed to evaluate the efficacy and safety of IVL with the Shockwave Coronary Rx Lithotripsy System in lesions with severe CAC as elective or bail-out strategy after RA. This observational, prospective, single-arm, multicenter, international, open-label Rota-Shock registry included patients with symptomatic coronary artery disease and lesions with severe CAC treated by percutaneous coronary intervention, including lesion preparation with RA and IVL, at 23 high-volume centers. Primary efficacy end point was procedural success, defined as final diameter stenosis <30% by quantitative coronary angiography. Primary safety end point was freedom from serious angiographic complications, which included >National Heart, Lung and Blood Institute type B dissection, perforation, abrupt closure, slow or no flow, final thrombolysis in myocardial infarction flow <3, and acute thrombosis. A total of 160 patients were enrolled between June 2020 and June 2022. The primary efficacy end point was observed in 155 patients (96.9%). The primary safety end point occurred in 145 cases (90.6%). Dissections >National Heart, Lung and Blood Institute type B occurred in 3 patients (1.9%), whereas slow or no flow occurred in 8 (5.0%), final thrombolysis in myocardial infarction flow <3 in 3 (1.9%), and perforation in 4 patients (2.5%). Free from inhospital major adverse cardiac and cerebrovascular events, including cardiac death, target vessel myocardial infarction, target lesion revascularization, cerebrovascular accident, definite/probable stent thrombosis, and major bleeding, occurred in 158 patients (98.7%). In conclusion, IVL after RA in lesions with severe CAC was effective and safe, with a very low incidence of complications as either elective or bail-out strategy.

Citation: Sardella G, et al. Coronary Lithotripsy as Elective or Bail-Out Strategy After Rotational Atherectomy in the Rota-Shock Registry. Coronary Lithotripsy as Elective or Bail-Out Strategy After Rotational Atherectomy in the Rota-Shock Registry. 2023; 198:1-8. doi: 10.1016/j.amjcard.2023.04.032

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37182254/
