PMID: 37197051
Title: Fluoroscopy and CT Guided Translumbar Tunneled Dialysis Catheter for Hemodialysis Access Failure in a Case of Autosomal Dominant Polycystic Kidney Disease.

Abstract: Vascular access in hemodialysis is essential to end-stage renal disease (ESRD) patients' survival. Unfortunately, even after years of recent advances, a significant number of patients may develop multi-access failure for many reasons. In this situation, arterial-venous fistula (AVF) or catheters placement in traditional vascular sites (jugular, femoral, or subclavian) are not feasible. In this scenario, translumbar tunneled dialysis catheters (TLDCs) may be a salvage option. The use of central venous catheters (CVC) is associated with an increased incidence of venous stenosis that can progressively limit future vascular access routes. The common femoral vein can be used for temporary access in patients in whom traditional approaches for permanent central venous access may not be feasible because of either chronically occluded or not accessible vasculature; however, this location is not preferred for long-term venous access because of the high rate of catheter related blood stream infections (CRBSI). In these patients, a direct translumbar approach to the inferior vena cava is a lifesaving alternative. This approach has been described by several authors as a bail-out option. Fluoroscopy-guided access via a translumbar approach into the inferior vena cava bares the risk of hollow-organ perforation or severe bleeding from the inferior vena cava or even the aorta. To minimize the risk of complications caused by a translumbar central venous access, we hereby present a hybrid approach with CT-guided translumbar access of the inferior vena cava followed by a conventional implantation of the permanent central venous catheter. CT scan-guided access of IVC that further helps in our case as patient has large bulky kidneys secondary to autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease.

Citation: Rathod K, et al. Fluoroscopy and CT Guided Translumbar Tunneled Dialysis Catheter for Hemodialysis Access Failure in a Case of Autosomal Dominant Polycystic Kidney Disease. Fluoroscopy and CT Guided Translumbar Tunneled Dialysis Catheter for Hemodialysis Access Failure in a Case of Autosomal Dominant Polycystic Kidney Disease. 2023; 33:70-74. doi: 10.4103/ijn.ijn_429_21

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37197051/
