PMID: 37197373
Title: Full endoscopic spine surgery.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: With a dramatic increase in elderly population worldwide, the prevalence of degenerative spine disease is steadily rising. Even though the entire spinal column is affected the problem is more commonly seen in the lumbar, cervical spine and to some extent the thoracic spine. The treatment of symptomatic lumbar disc or stenosis is primarily conservative with analgesics, epidural steroids and physiotherapy. Surgery is advised only if conservative treatment is ineffective. Conventional open microscopic procedures even though are still a gold standard, have the disadvantages of excessive muscle damage and bone resection, epidural scarring along with prolonged hospital stay and increased need of postoperative analgesics. Minimal access spine surgeries minimize surgical access related injury by minimizing soft tissue and muscle damage and also bony resection thus preventing iatrogenic instability and unnecessary fusions. This leads to good functional preservation of the spine and enhances early postoperative recovery and early return to work. Full endoscopic spine surgeries are one of the more sophisticated and advanced form of MIS surgeries.
PURPOSE: Full endoscopy has definitive benefits over conventional microsurgical techniques. These include better and clear vision of the pathology due to presence of irrigation fluid channel, minimal soft tissue and bone trauma, better and relatively easy approach to deep seated pathologies like thoracic disc herniations and a possibility to avoid fusion surgeries. The purpose of this article is to describe these benefits, give an overview of the two main approaches - transforaminal and interlaminar, their indications, contraindications and their limitations. The article also describes about the challenges in overcoming the learning curve and its future prospectives.
CONCLUSION: Full endoscopic spine surgery is one of the fastest growing technique in the field of modern spine surgery. Better intraoperative visualization of the pathology, lesser incidence of complications, faster recovery time, less postoperative pain, better relief of symptoms and early return to activity are the main reasons behind this rapid growth. With better patient outcomes and reduced medical costs, the procedure is going to be more accepted, relevant and popular procedure in future.

Citation: Lokhande PV. Full endoscopic spine surgery. Full endoscopic spine surgery. 2023; 40:74-82. doi: 10.1016/j.jor.2023.04.010

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37197373/
