PMID: 37197915
Title: Tako-Tsubo Syndrome Following Pulmonary Vein Isolation for Atrial Fibrillation in a Patient with Primary Aldosteronism.

Abstract: Tako-tsubo syndrome (TTS) can be triggered by emotional or physical stress and is characterized by transient left ventricular dysfunction with apical ballooning. Some neurologic disorders and pheochromocytoma serve as triggers for TTS, however, its association with primary aldosteronism (PA) is not well known. Pulmonary vein isolation (PVI) with catheter ablation for atrial fibrillation (AF) has been performed worldwide, and TTS following PVI has been reported as a rare complication. Sympathetic stimulation can play an important role in TTS development, however, its mechanism and risk factors are not yet understood.We describe a 72-year-old woman with PA who developed TTS after PVI with radiofrequency catheter ablation (RFCA) for symptomatic paroxysmal AF. Complete isolation of the pulmonary vein was carried out without any complications, however, she complained of epigastric discomfort 7 hours after the procedure. An electrocardiogram showed recurrent AF with a new negative-T wave and prolonged QT interval. Transthoracic echocardiography revealed apical ballooning and basal hypercontraction, characteristic of TTS, and coronary angiography showed no significant stenosis. She was diagnosed with TTS following RFCA for AF and managed well with conservative therapy.The present case suggests that TTS should be recognized as a complication associated with AF ablation. Moreover, PA may be involved in TTS development by increasing sympathetic activity. Further studies on the mechanism and characteristics of TTS are required.

Citation: Shoji K, et al. Tako-Tsubo Syndrome Following Pulmonary Vein Isolation for Atrial Fibrillation in a Patient with Primary Aldosteronism. Tako-Tsubo Syndrome Following Pulmonary Vein Isolation for Atrial Fibrillation in a Patient with Primary Aldosteronism. 2023; 64:496-501. doi: 10.1536/ihj.22-713

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37197915/
