PMID: 37197113
Title: A Case Report of Cardiac Failure in a Patient on Teduglutide for High-Output Ileostomy Stoma.

Abstract: A high volume of ileostomy output in patients with extensive bowel resection can be hard to manage. This leads to extensive loss of fluids and electrolytes along with malabsorption. Medications have traditionally controlled it by delaying intestinal transit and decreasing intestinal and gastric secretion using opiates, loperamide, diphenoxylate, omeprazole, somatostatin, and octreotide. However, many patients depend on parenteral nutrition and fluid and electrolyte infusions, even with optimal drug therapy. Despite the best possible care, they may develop renal failure. Teduglutide is a glucagon-like peptide-2 (GLP-2) analog given as a daily subcutaneous injection, and it has been promising in managing short bowel syndrome. It has been effective in decreasing the dependence on parenteral nutrition. However, improving fluid and electrolyte balance can precipitate cardiac failure in some patients, especially those with borderline cardiac functions, hypertension, and thyroid disorders. This usually presents in the first few months of the initiation of teduglutide therapy and may require stopping the medication. We present the case report of an elderly female with a high-output stoma on parenteral nutrition on teduglutide. There was a significant decrease in stoma output, and parenteral nutritional support could be stopped. However, she presented with worsening dyspnea and was diagnosed with cardiac failure with an ejection fraction of 16%-20%. The baseline ejection fraction was 45%, done six months before this. Coronary angiography showed no stenosis in any vessels, and the decline in left ventricular ejection fraction and fluid overload was attributed to teduglutide therapy.

Citation: Nair A, et al. A Case Report of Cardiac Failure in a Patient on Teduglutide for High-Output Ileostomy Stoma. A Case Report of Cardiac Failure in a Patient on Teduglutide for High-Output Ileostomy Stoma. 2023; 15:e37518. doi: 10.7759/cureus.37518

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37197113/
