PMID: 37190765
Title: Management of Cerebral 4-Vessel Disease With Anterior Circulation Symptoms by Stenting Both Vertebral Arteries at the Same Session.

Abstract: PURPOSE: Stroke is among the leading causes of mortality and morbidity worldwide. The coexistence of bilateral carotid and vertebral artery (VA) occlusion and/or stenosis is in the very rare entity group in the literature. Here, we present a case with bilateral carotid artery occlusion and bilateral VA stenosis, who presented with an atypical clinical presentation and underwent bilateral vertebral percutaneous transluminal angioplasty (PTA) and stenting in the same session.
CASE REPORT: A 67 year old male patient was brought to the emergency department with complaints of inability to speak and weakness in both legs for 1 day. There were bilateral infarct areas in the anterior cerebral artery region and an additional infarct area in the left middle cerebral artery region. First, the right VA stenosis level was crossed using a 0.14 guidewire. After PTA, balloon-expandable stenting was performed with a 3.0×12 mm NC (non-compliant) balloon, and nearly complete recanalization was observed. Therefore, it was decided to perform an intervention on the left VA in the same session.
CONCLUSION: As in this example case, in cases where cerebral perfusion is severely impaired, medical treatment after recanalization may be one of the best treatment options.
CLINICAL IMPACT: The carotid arteries are the main arteries supplying the anterior circulation, and the vertebral arteries supply blood to the posterior circulation. However, in cases where both carotid arteries are occluded/dysfunctional, all cerebral perfusion remains over the vertebrobasilar system. However, in cases such as this, where both carotid arteries are occluded/dysfunctional, all cerebral perfusion remains over the vertebrobasilar system and may be responsible for anterior circulation strokes. The situation becomes more severe if both vertebral artery critical stenosis is added. Synchronous carotid and vertebral artery revascularization is not recommended in the guidelines for patients with combined carotid and vertebral artery disease. In patients with four-vessel occlusion/stenosis, as in this particular case, the intervention method and priorities are unclear. We achieved a favorable clinical outcome with simultaneous bilateral vertebral artery angioplasty and stenting, a hazardous method that can be a guide as an approach option in similar cases.

Citation: Boncuk Ulaş S and Atılgan Acar B. Management of Cerebral 4-Vessel Disease With Anterior Circulation Symptoms by Stenting Both Vertebral Arteries at the Same Session. Management of Cerebral 4-Vessel Disease With Anterior Circulation Symptoms by Stenting Both Vertebral Arteries at the Same Session. 2023; (unknown volume):15266028231172898. doi: 10.1177/15266028231172898

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37190765/
