PMID: 37200403
Title: Transforming growth factor-β2 is associated with atherosclerotic plaque stability and lower risk for cardiovascular events.

Abstract: AIMS: Transforming growth factor-beta (TGF-β) exists in three isoforms TGF-β1, -β2, and -β3. TGF-β1 has been suggested to be important for maintaining plaque stability, yet the role of TGF-β2 and -β3 in atherosclerosis remains to be investigated.This study explores the association of the three isoforms of TGF-β with plaque stability in the human atherosclerotic disease.
METHODS AND RESULTS: TGF-β1, -β2, and -β3 proteins were quantified in 223 human carotid plaques by immunoassays. Indications for the endarterectomy were: symptomatic carotid plaque with stenosis >70% or without symptoms and >80% stenosis. Plaque mRNA levels were assessed by RNA sequencing. Plaque components and extracellular matrix were measured histologically and biochemically. Matrix metalloproteinases and monocyte chemoattractant protein-1 (MCP-1) was measured with immunoassays. The effect of TGF-β2 on inflammation and protease activity was investigated in vitro using THP-1 and RAW264.7 macrophages. Patients were followed longitudinally for cardiovascular (CV) events.TGF-β2 was the most abundant isoform and was increased at both protein and mRNA levels in asymptomatic plaques. TGF-β2 was the main determinant separating asymptomatic plaques in an Orthogonal Projections to Latent Structures Discriminant Analysis. TGF-β2 correlated positively to features of plaque stability and inversely to markers of plaque vulnerability. TGF-β2 was the only isoform inversely correlated to the matrix-degrading matrix metalloproteinase-9 and inflammation in the plaque tissue. In vitro, TGF-β2 pre-treatment reduced MCP-1 gene and protein levels as well as matrix metalloproteinase-9 gene levels and activity. Patients with plaques with high TGF-β2 levels had a lower risk to suffer from future CV events.
CONCLUSIONS: TGF-β2 is the most abundant TGF-β isoform in human plaques and may maintain plaque stability by decreasing inflammation and matrix degradation.

Citation: Edsfeldt A, et al. Transforming growth factor-β2 is associated with atherosclerotic plaque stability and lower risk for cardiovascular events. Transforming growth factor-β2 is associated with atherosclerotic plaque stability and lower risk for cardiovascular events. 2023; 119:2061-2073. doi: 10.1093/cvr/cvad079

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37200403/
