PMID: 37201261
Title: The role of calcium-sensing receptor in ginsenoside Rg1 promoting reendothelialization to inhibit intimal hyperplasia after balloon injury.

Abstract: Calcium-sensing receptor (CaSR) is a G protein-coupled receptor, widely distributed in various tissues, including vascular endothelial cells and smooth muscle cells, which plays an important role in the migration and homing of stem/progenitor cells and the proliferation of tissue cells. Restenosis after Percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) seriously affects its prognosis and application. Our previous research has found that ginsenoside Rg1 (GS-Rg1) can inhibit the occurrence of restenosis after balloon injury of the common carotid artery in rats, but the mechanism is still unclear. In this study, it was found that GS-Rg1 (4, 8, 16 mg/kg) inhibited vascular restenosis caused by balloon injury, and mobilize endothelial progenitor cells (EPCs) to promote reendothelialization and inhibit intimal hyperplasia, which significantly reduced after administration of CaSR antagonist NPS 2143. Interestingly, CaSR and its downstream JNK, P38 were highly expressed in the proliferative intima and participated in the abnormal proliferation of vascular smooth muscle cells mediated by smooth muscle progenitor cells (SMPCs). GS-Rg1 inhibited intimal hyperplasia, while it decreased the expression of CaSR, JNK, and P38. This might relate to the distribution of CaSR and the facilitation of GS-Rg1 on the vascular endothelial repair. It is concluded that CaSR plays a key role in GS-Rg1 promoting reendothelialization to inhibit intimal hyperplasia after balloon Injury.

Citation: Xu S, et al. The role of calcium-sensing receptor in ginsenoside Rg1 promoting reendothelialization to inhibit intimal hyperplasia after balloon injury. The role of calcium-sensing receptor in ginsenoside Rg1 promoting reendothelialization to inhibit intimal hyperplasia after balloon injury. 2023; 163:114843. doi: 10.1016/j.biopha.2023.114843

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37201261/
