PMID: 37218352
Title: Effect of Muscularity and Fatty Infiltration of Paraspinal Muscles on Outcome of Lumbar Interbody Fusion.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Lumbar paraspinal muscles play an important role in maintaining global spinal alignment and are associated with lower back pain; however, only a few studies on the effect of the paraspinal muscles on the surgical outcome exist. Therefore, this study aimed to analyze the association of preoperative muscularity and fatty infiltration (FI) of paraspinal muscles with the outcome of lumbar interbody fusion.
METHODS: Postoperative clinical and radiographic outcomes were analyzed in 206 patients who underwent surgery for a degenerative lumbar disease. The preoperative diagnosis was spinal stenosis or low-grade spondylolisthesis, and the surgery performed was posterior lumbar interbody fusion or minimally invasive transforaminal lumbar interbody fusion. Indications for surgery were a complaint of severe radiating pain that did not improve with conservative treatment and neurological symptoms accompanied by lower extremity motor weakness. Patients with fractures, infections, tumors, or a history of lumbar surgery were excluded from this study. Clinical outcome measures included functional status, measured using the Oswestry disability index (ODI) and visual analog scale (VAS) score for lower back and leg pain. Other radiographic parameters included measures of spinal alignment, including lumbar lordosis, pelvic tilt, sacral slope, pelvic incidence, C7 sagittal vertical axis, and pelvic incidence-lumbar lordosis mismatch. Lumbar muscularity (LM) and FI were measured preoperatively using a lumbar magnetic resonance image (MRI).
RESULTS: The high LM group showed more significant improvement in VAS score for lower back pain than the low LM group. In contrast, the VAS score for leg pain demonstrated no statistical significance. The high LM group showed more significant improvement in ODI postoperatively than the medium group. The severe FI group showed more significant improvement in ODI postoperatively, whereas the less severe FI group showed more significant improvement in the sagittal balance postoperatively.
CONCLUSION: Patients with high LM and mild FI ratio observed on preoperative MRI demonstrated more favorable clinical and radiographic outcomes after lumbar interbody fusion. Therefore, preoperative paraspinal muscle condition should be considered when planning lumbar interbody fusion.

Citation: You KH, et al. Effect of Muscularity and Fatty Infiltration of Paraspinal Muscles on Outcome of Lumbar Interbody Fusion. Effect of Muscularity and Fatty Infiltration of Paraspinal Muscles on Outcome of Lumbar Interbody Fusion. 2023; 38:e151. doi: 10.3346/jkms.2023.38.e151

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37218352/
