PMID: 37211943
Title: [Observation of early clinical efficacy of unilateral biportal endoscopy technique in the treatment of lumbar postoperative adjacent segmental diseases].

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: To investigate early clinical efficacy of unilateral biportal endoscopy technique for the treatment of lumbar postoperative adjacent segmental diseases.
METHODS: Fourteen patients with lumbar postoperative adjacent segmental diseases were treated with unilateral biportal endoscopy technique from June 2019 to June 2020. Among them, there were 9 males and 5 females, aged from 52 to 73 years old, and the interval between primary and revision operations ranged from 19 to 64 months. Adjacent segmental degeneration occurred after lumbar fusion in 10 patients and after lumbar nonfusion fixation in 4 patients. All the patients received unilateral biportal endoscopy assisted posterior unilateral lamina decompression or unilateral approach to the contralateral decompression. The operation time, postoperative hospital stay and complications were observed. The visual analogue scale (VAS) of low back pain and leg pain, Oswestry Disability Index (ODI), modified Japanese Orthopaedic Association (mJOA) score were recorded before operation and at 3 days, 3 months, and 6 months after operation.
RESULTS: All procedures were successfully completed. Surgical duration ranged from 32 to 151 min. Postoperative CT showed adequate decompression and preservation of most joints. Out of bed walking 1 to 3 days after surgery, postoperative hospital stay was 1 to 8 days, and postoperative follow-up was 6 to 11 months. All 14 patients returned to normal life within 3 weeks after surgery, and VAS, ODI, and mJOA scores improved significantly at 3 days and 3, 6 months after surgery. One patient occurred cerebrospinal fluid leak after operation, received local compression suture, and the wound healed after conservative treatment. One patient occurred postoperative cauda equina neurologic deficit, which was gradually recovered about 1 month after rehabilitation therapy. One patients advented transient pain of lower limbs after surgery, and the symptoms were relieved after 7 days of treatment with hormones, dehydration drugs and symptomatic management.
CONCLUSION: Unilateral biportal endoscopy technique has a good early clinical efficacy in the treatment of lumbar postoperative adjacent segmental diseases, which may provide a new minimally invasive, non-fixation option for the treatment of adjacent segment disease.

Citation: Zhou JW, et al. [Observation of early clinical efficacy of unilateral biportal endoscopy technique in the treatment of lumbar postoperative adjacent segmental diseases]. [Observation of early clinical efficacy of unilateral biportal endoscopy technique in the treatment of lumbar postoperative adjacent segmental diseases]. 2023; 36:480-6. doi: 10.12200/j.issn.1003-0034.2023.05.016

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37211943/
