PMID: 37218483
Title: The relationship between epicardial adipose tissue thickness and coronary artery disease progress.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: The relationship between epicardial adipose tissue and inflammatory events has been shown in many studies. Because it is an inflammatory process in coronary progression, it is aimed to examine the relationship between coronary artery disease progression and epicardial adipose tissue thickness.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Our research was conducted with 50 patients (33 men, 17 women) who underwent planned or emergency coronary angiography, by evaluating the coronary artery disease progression from the coronary angiography images together with the echocardiographic epicardial adipose tissue thickness measurement. Patients were examined in two groups according to their tissue thickness, 17 patients with less than 0.55 cm were defined as group 1 and 33 patients with ≥ 0.55 were determined as group 2.
RESULTS: There was no significant difference between the groups in terms of gender, diabetes, age, hypertension. In addition, a significant relationship was found with epicardial adipose tissue thickness (> 0.5 cm), ejection fraction and smoking in the group with coronary progression. Patients without stenotic changes were found to be statistically significantly lower p < 0.005.
CONCLUSION: An independent relationship was found between epicardial adipose tissue and coronary artery progression. In the light of these findings, it can be concluded that epicardial adipose tissue residue is effective in the development of coronary artery stenosis and calcific-atherosclerotic changes in the coronary arteries. In the light of the information obtained, a positive correlation was determined between epicardial adipose tissue thickness and coronary artery disease (Tab. 3, Fig. 2, Ref. 15). Text in PDF www.elis.sk Keywords: coronary artery disease, epicardial adipose tissue, progression.

Citation: Con E, et al. The relationship between epicardial adipose tissue thickness and coronary artery disease progress. The relationship between epicardial adipose tissue thickness and coronary artery disease progress. 2023; 124:545-548. doi: 10.4149/BLL_2023_084

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37218483/
