PMID: 37219710
Title: Risk of further surgery after decompression in patients with diffuse idiopathic skeletal hyperostosis extending to the lumbar segments: focus on the number of residual lumbar/lumbosacral and sacroiliac mobile segments.

Abstract: PURPOSE: Patients with diffuse idiopathic skeletal hyperostosis (DISH) that extends to the lumbar segments (L-DISH) have a high risk of further surgery after lumbar decompression. However, few studies have focused on the ankylosis status of the residual caudal segments, including the sacroiliac joint (SIJ). We hypothesized that patients with more ankylosed segments beside the operated level, including the SIJ, would be at a higher risk of further surgery.
METHODS: A total of 79 patients with L-DISH who underwent decompression surgery for lumbar stenosis at a single academic institution between 2007 and 2021 were enrolled. The baseline demographics and radiological findings by CT imaging focusing on the ankylosing condition of the residual lumbar segments and SIJ were collected. Cox proportional hazard analysis was conducted to investigate the risk factors for further surgery after lumbar decompression.
RESULTS: The rate of further surgery was 37.9% during an average of 48.8 months of follow-up. Cox proportional hazard analysis demonstrated that the presence of fewer than three segments of non-operated mobile caudal segments was an independent predictor for further surgery (including both the same and adjacent levels) after lumbar decompression (adjusted hazard ratio 2.53, 95%CI [1.12-5.70]).
CONCLUSIONS: L-DISH patients with fewer than three mobile caudal segments besides index decompression levels are at a high risk of further surgery. Ankylosis status of the residual lumbar segments and SIJ should be thoroughly evaluated using CT during preoperative planning.

Citation: Tanaka A, et al. Risk of further surgery after decompression in patients with diffuse idiopathic skeletal hyperostosis extending to the lumbar segments: focus on the number of residual lumbar/lumbosacral and sacroiliac mobile segments. Risk of further surgery after decompression in patients with diffuse idiopathic skeletal hyperostosis extending to the lumbar segments: focus on the number of residual lumbar/lumbosacral and sacroiliac mobile segments. 2023; 32:2336-2343. doi: 10.1007/s00586-023-07773-7

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37219710/
