PMID: 37222915
Title: 3D Visualization of Whole Brain Vessels and Quantification of Vascular Pathology in a Chronic Hypoperfusion Model Causing White Matter Damage.

Abstract: Chronic cerebral hypoperfusion is an important pathological factor in many neurodegenerative diseases, such as cerebral small vessel disease (CSVD). One of the most used animal models for chronic cerebral hypoperfusion is the bilateral common carotid artery stenosis (BCAS) mouse. For the therapy of CSVD and other diseases, it will be beneficial to understand the pathological alterations of the BCAS mouse, particularly vascular pathological changes. A mouse model of BCAS was used, and 8 weeks later, cognitive function of the mice was examined by using novel object recognition test and eight-arm radial maze test. 11.7 T magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and luxol fast blue staining were used to evaluate the injury of the corpus callosum (CC), anterior commissure (AC), internal capsule (IC), and optic tract (Opt) in the cerebral white matter of mice. Three-dimensional vascular images of the whole brain of mice were acquired using fluorescence micro-optical sectioning tomography (fMOST) with a high resolution of 0.32 × 0.32 × 1.00 μm3. Then, the damaged white matter regions were further extracted to analyze the vessel length density, volume fraction, tortuosity, and the number of vessels of different internal diameters. The mouse cerebral caudal rhinal vein was also extracted and analyzed for its branch number and divergent angle in this study. BCAS modeling for 8 weeks resulted in impaired spatial working memory, reduced brain white matter integrity, and myelin degradation in mice, and CC showed the most severe white matter damage. 3D revascularization of the whole mouse brain showed that the number of large vessels was reduced and the number of small vessels was increased in BCAS mice. Further analysis revealed that the vessel length density and volume fraction in the damaged white matter region of BCAS mice were significantly reduced, and the vascular lesions were most noticeable in the CC. At the same time, the number of small vessels in the above white matter regions was significantly reduced, while the number of microvessels was significantly increased in BCAS mice, and the vascular tortuosity was also significantly increased. In addition, the analysis of caudal rhinal vein extraction revealed that the number of branches and the average divergent angle in BCAS mice were significantly reduced. The BCAS modeling for 8 weeks will lead to vascular lesions in whole brain of mice, and the caudal nasal vein was also damaged, while BCAS mice mainly mitigated the damages by increasing microvessels. What is more, the vascular lesions in white matter of mouse brain can cause white matter damage and spatial working memory deficit. These results provide evidence for the vascular pathological alterations caused by chronic hypoperfusion.

Citation: Wu Y, et al. 3D Visualization of Whole Brain Vessels and Quantification of Vascular Pathology in a Chronic Hypoperfusion Model Causing White Matter Damage. 3D Visualization of Whole Brain Vessels and Quantification of Vascular Pathology in a Chronic Hypoperfusion Model Causing White Matter Damage. 2024; 15:659-671. doi: 10.1007/s12975-023-01157-1

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37222915/
