PMID: 37239276
Title: Machine Learning for Early Diagnosis of ATTRv Amyloidosis in Non-Endemic Areas: A Multicenter Study from Italy.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Hereditary transthyretin amyloidosis with polyneuropathy (ATTRv) is an adult-onset multisystemic disease, affecting the peripheral nerves, heart, gastrointestinal tract, eyes, and kidneys. Nowadays, several treatment options are available; thus, avoiding misdiagnosis is crucial to starting therapy in early disease stages. However, clinical diagnosis may be difficult, as the disease may present with unspecific symptoms and signs. We hypothesize that the diagnostic process may benefit from the use of machine learning (ML).
METHODS: 397 patients referring to neuromuscular clinics in 4 centers from the south of Italy with neuropathy and at least 1 more red flag, as well as undergoing genetic testing for ATTRv, were considered. Then, only probands were considered for analysis. Hence, a cohort of 184 patients, 93 with positive and 91 (age- and sex-matched) with negative genetics, was considered for the classification task. The XGBoost (XGB) algorithm was trained to classify positive and negative TTR mutation patients. The SHAP method was used as an explainable artificial intelligence algorithm to interpret the model findings.
RESULTS: diabetes, gender, unexplained weight loss, cardiomyopathy, bilateral carpal tunnel syndrome (CTS), ocular symptoms, autonomic symptoms, ataxia, renal dysfunction, lumbar canal stenosis, and history of autoimmunity were used for the model training. The XGB model showed an accuracy of 0.707 ± 0.101, a sensitivity of 0.712 ± 0.147, a specificity of 0.704 ± 0.150, and an AUC-ROC of 0.752 ± 0.107. Using the SHAP explanation, it was confirmed that unexplained weight loss, gastrointestinal symptoms, and cardiomyopathy showed a significant association with the genetic diagnosis of ATTRv, while bilateral CTS, diabetes, autoimmunity, and ocular and renal involvement were associated with a negative genetic test.
CONCLUSIONS: Our data show that ML might potentially be a useful instrument to identify patients with neuropathy that should undergo genetic testing for ATTRv. Unexplained weight loss and cardiomyopathy are relevant red flags in ATTRv in the south of Italy. Further studies are needed to confirm these findings.

Citation: Di Stefano V, et al. Machine Learning for Early Diagnosis of ATTRv Amyloidosis in Non-Endemic Areas: A Multicenter Study from Italy. Machine Learning for Early Diagnosis of ATTRv Amyloidosis in Non-Endemic Areas: A Multicenter Study from Italy. 2023; 13:(unknown pages). doi: 10.3390/brainsci13050805

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37239276/
