PMID: 37233607
Title: Averting an Unnecessary Revision of a Roux-en-Y Hepaticojejunostomy by Surgically Creating an Access Point for the Endoscopic Assessment of the Anastomosis: A Report of a Case.

Abstract: Introduction: Primary sclerosing cholangitis sets the scene for several pathologies of both the intrahepatic and the extrahepatic biliary tree. Surgical treatment, when needed, is almost unanimously summarized in the creation of a Roux-en-Y hepaticojejunostomy, a procedure with a relatively high associated failure rate. Presentation of case: A 70-year-old male, diagnosed with primary sclerosing cholangitis, was submitted to a Roux-en-Y hepaticojejunostomy due to a dominant stricture of the extrahepatic biliary tree. Recurrent episodes of acute cholangitis dictated a workup in the direction of a possible stenosis at the level of the anastomosis. The imaging studies were inconclusive while both the endoscopic and the transhepatic approach failed to assess the status of the anastomosis. A laparotomy, with the intent to revise a high suspicion for stenosis hepaticojejunostomy, was decided. Intraoperatively, a decision to assess the hepaticojejunostomy prior to the scheduled surgical revision, via endoscopy, was made. In this direction, an enterotomy was made on the short jejunal blind loop in order to gain luminal access and an endoscope was propelled through the enterotomy towards the biliary enteric anastomosis. Results: The inspection of the anastomosis under direct endoscopic vision showed no evidences of stenosis and averted an unnecessary, under these circumstances, revision of the anastomosis. Conclusions: The surgical revision of a Roux-en-Y hepaticojejunostomy is a highly demanding operation with an increased associated morbidity, and it should be reserved as the final resort in the treatment algorithm. An approach of utilizing surgery to facilitate the endoscopic assessment prior to proceeding to the surgical revision of the anastomosis appears justified.

Citation: Symeonidis D, et al. Averting an Unnecessary Revision of a Roux-en-Y Hepaticojejunostomy by Surgically Creating an Access Point for the Endoscopic Assessment of the Anastomosis: A Report of a Case. Averting an Unnecessary Revision of a Roux-en-Y Hepaticojejunostomy by Surgically Creating an Access Point for the Endoscopic Assessment of the Anastomosis: A Report of a Case. 2023; 10:(unknown pages). doi: 10.3390/medicines10050031

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37233607/
