PMID: 37236535
Title: A Scoping Review of Simulation-Based Training Paradigms for Carotid Artery Endarterectomy and Carotid Artery Stenting.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Surgical simulation has come to the forefront to enhance the training of residents. The aim of our scoping review is to analyze the available simulation-based carotid revascularization techniques, including carotid endarterectomy (CEA) and carotid artery stenting (CAS) and suggest critical steps for evaluating competency in a standardized fashion.
METHODS: A scoping review of all reports on simulation-based carotid revascularization techniques including CEA and CAS was performed in PubMed/MEDLINE, Scopus, Embase, Cochrane, Science Citation Index Expanded, Emerging Sources Citation Index, and Epistemonikos databases. Data were collected according to the Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic Reviews and Meta-analysis guidelines. The English language literature was searched from January 1, 2000 to January 9, 2022. The outcomes evaluated included measures of assessment of operator performance.
RESULTS: Five CEA and 11 CAS manuscripts were included in this review. The methods of assessments employed by these studies to judge performance were comparable. The 5 CEA studies sought to validate and demonstrate improved performance with training or distinguish surgeons by their experience level, either through assessing operative performance or end-product results. The 11 CAS studies used 1 of 2 types of commercial simulators and focused on determining the efficacy of simulators as teaching tools. By examining the steps of the procedure associated with preventable perioperative complications, it provides a reasonable framework for determining which elements of the procedure should be emphasized most. Furthermore, using potential errors as a basis for assessment of competency could reliably distinguish operators based on level of experience.
CONCLUSIONS: Competency-based simulation training is becoming more relevant as our surgical training paradigm shifts with the increased scrutiny within training programs of work-hour regulations and the need to develop a curriculum to assess our trainees' ability to perform specific operations competently during their stipulated training period. Our review has given us an insight into the current efforts in this space regarding 2 specific procedures that are key for all vascular surgeons to master. Although many competency-based modules are available, there is a lack of standardization in the grading/rating system of what surgeons consider vital steps of each procedure to assess these simulation-based modules. Therefore, the next steps of curriculum development should be based on standardization efforts for the different protocols available.

Citation: Williams EC, et al. A Scoping Review of Simulation-Based Training Paradigms for Carotid Artery Endarterectomy and Carotid Artery Stenting. A Scoping Review of Simulation-Based Training Paradigms for Carotid Artery Endarterectomy and Carotid Artery Stenting. 2023; 95:271-284. doi: 10.1016/j.avsg.2023.05.006

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37236535/
