PMID: 37235493
Title: Changes and Significance of 2D-STI and Right Ventricular Function Parameters in Evaluating Cardiac Function in Patients with Coronary Heart Disease and Atrial Fibrillation.

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: To investigate the changes and clinical significance of two-dimensional speckle tracking imaging (2D-STI) and echocardiography in patients with coronary heart disease (CHD) and atrial fibrillation (AF).
METHODS: In this study, 102 patients with CHD accompanied by AF were selected as the case group, and 100 patients with CHD but without AF were selected as the control group. All patients received conventional echocardiography and 2D-STI, and the right heart function parameters and right heart strain parameters were compared. The relationship between the above indicators and the occurrence of adverse endpoint events in patients from the case group was analyzed by a logistic regression model.
RESULTS: The values of right ventricular ejection fraction (RVEF), right ventricular systolic volume (RVSV), and tricuspid valve systolic displacement (TAPSE) in the case group were lower than those in the control group, and the differences were statistically significant (P < .05). The values of right ventricular end-diastolic volume (RVEDV) and right ventricular end-systolic volume (RVESV) in the case group were higher than those in the control group, and the differences were statistically significant (P < .05). The values of right ventricular longitudinal strain in the basal segment (RVLSbas), right ventricular longitudinal strain in the middle segment (RVLSmid), right ventricular longitudinal strain in the apical segment (RVLSapi), and right ventricular longitudinal strain in the free wall (RVLSfw) in the case group were higher than those in the control group, and the differences were statistically significant (P < .05). The number of coronary lesions ≥2 branches, cardiac function class ≥III, coronary stenosis ≥70%, reduced RVEF, increased RVLSbas, RVLSmid, RVLSapi, and RVLSfw were found to be independent risk factors for adverse endpoint events in patients with CHD and AF (P < 0.05).
CONCLUSION: In patients with CHD accompanied by AF, the right ventricular systolic function and myocardial longitudinal strain capacity decreases, and the decreased right ventricular function was closely related to the occurrence of adverse endpoint events.

Citation: Zhang Y, et al. Changes and Significance of 2D-STI and Right Ventricular Function Parameters in Evaluating Cardiac Function in Patients with Coronary Heart Disease and Atrial Fibrillation. Changes and Significance of 2D-STI and Right Ventricular Function Parameters in Evaluating Cardiac Function in Patients with Coronary Heart Disease and Atrial Fibrillation. 2023; 29:40-44.

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37235493/
