PMID: 37245667
Title: Spontaneous Third Ventriculostomy in Cases of Aqueductal Stenosis: A Retrospective Case Series.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Spontaneous third ventriculostomy (STV) is a rare occurrence in cases of obstructive hydrocephalus where the walls of the third ventricle rupture, communicating the ventricular system, and the subarachnoid space leading to arrest of active hydrocephalus. We aim to review our series of STVs while reviewing previous reports.
METHODS: A retrospective review of cases undergoing cine phase-contrast magnetic resonance imaging (PC-MRI) from 2015 to 2022 of any age with imaging evidence of arrested obstructive hydrocephalus was performed. Patients in which aqueductal stenosis was radiologically evident and the presence of third ventriculostomy through which cerebrospinal fluid flow was detectable were included. Patients who previously underwent endoscopic third ventriculostomy were excluded. Data on patient demographics, presentation, and imaging details of STV and aqueductal stenosis were collected. We searched the PubMed database using the following keyword combination: ((("spontaneous ventriculostomy") OR ("spontaneous third ventriculostomy")) OR ("spontaneous ventriculocisternostomy")) including English reports of STV published between 2010 and 2022.
RESULTS: Fourteen cases were included (7 adults, 7 pediatrics), all with history of hydrocephalus. STV occurred in the floor of the third ventricle in 57.1% of the cases, at the lamina terminalis in 35.7%, and at both sites in 1 case. Eleven publications reporting 38 cases of STV were identified from 2009 to date. Minimum follow-up period was 10 months and maximum follow-up is 77 months.
CONCLUSIONS: In cases of chronic obstructive hydrocephalus, neurosurgeons should be minded with the possibility of the presence of an STV on cine phase-contrast magnetic resonance imaging leading to arrested hydrocephalus. The delayed flow at the aqueduct of Sylvius might not be the only determinant of the necessity of cerebrospinal fluid diversion and the presence of an STV should be factored into the neurosurgeon's decision considering the patient's clinical picture.

Citation: Aleem Ragab OA, et al. Spontaneous Third Ventriculostomy in Cases of Aqueductal Stenosis: A Retrospective Case Series. Spontaneous Third Ventriculostomy in Cases of Aqueductal Stenosis: A Retrospective Case Series. 2023; 176:e408-e414. doi: 10.1016/j.wneu.2023.05.074

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37245667/
