PMID: 37241078
Title: Impact of Sarcopenia on Percutaneous Epidural Balloon Neuroplasty in Patients with Lumbar Spinal Stenosis: A Retrospective Analysis.

Abstract: Background and Objectives: With the aging population, the incidence of degenerative lumbar spinal stenosis (LSS) is increasing. Sarcopenia is an age-related muscular decrease. Although epidural balloon neuroplasty is effective in patients with LSS refractory to conventional treatments, its effect has not been assessed in patients with sarcopenia. Therefore, this study evaluated the effect of epidural balloon neuroplasty in patients with LSS and sarcopenia. Materials and Methods: This retrospective study reviewed the following details from the electronic medical records: patient characteristics, including sex, age, body mass index, diabetes, hypertension, stenosis grading, pain duration, location, pain intensity, and medications. Back and leg pain intensity was evaluated before and after the procedure at one, three, and six months during the follow-up period. A generalized estimating equations model was used at six months follow-up. Patients were divided into sarcopenia and non-sarcopenia groups using the cross-sectional area of the psoas muscle at the level of L3 on magnetic resonance imaging. Results: A total of 477 patients were included (sarcopenia group: 314 patients, 65.8%; non-sarcopenia group: 163 patients, 34.2%). Age, sex, body mass index, and medication quantification scale III were statistically different between both groups. The generalized estimating equations analyses-with unadjusted and adjusted estimation-revealed a significantly reduced pain intensity after the procedure compared to the baseline in both groups. The difference in pain intensity between both groups was not statistically different. Conclusions: Percutaneous epidural balloon neuroplasty may be considered for patients with chronic lumbar LSS regardless of accompanying sarcopenia.

Citation: Han YA, et al. Impact of Sarcopenia on Percutaneous Epidural Balloon Neuroplasty in Patients with Lumbar Spinal Stenosis: A Retrospective Analysis. Impact of Sarcopenia on Percutaneous Epidural Balloon Neuroplasty in Patients with Lumbar Spinal Stenosis: A Retrospective Analysis. 2023; 59:(unknown pages). doi: 10.3390/medicina59050847

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37241078/
