PMID: 37240210
Title: A Novel Mutation in the ADAMTS10 Associated with Weil-Marchesani Syndrome with a Unique Presentation of Developed Membranes Causing Severe Stenosis of the Supra Pulmonic, Supramitral, and Subaortic Areas in the Heart.

Abstract: Weill-Marchesani syndrome (WMS) is a rare genetic inherited disorder with autosomal recessive and dominant modes of inheritance. WMS is characterized by the association of short stature, brachydactyly, joint stiffness, eye anomalies, including microspherophakia and ectopia of the lenses, and, occasionally, heart defects. We investigated the genetic cause of a unique and novel presentation of heart-developed membranes in the supra-pulmonic, supramitral, and subaortic areas, creating stenosis that recurred after their surgical resection in four patients from one extended consanguineous family. The patients also presented ocular findings consistent with Weill-Marchesani syndrome (WMS). We used whole exome sequencing (WES) to identify the causative mutation and report it as a homozygous nucleotide change c. 232T&gt;C causing p. Tyr78His in ADAMTS10. ADAMTS10 (ADAM Metallopeptidase with Thrombospondin Type 1 Motif 10) is a member of a family of zinc-dependent extracellular matrix protease family. This is the first report of a mutation in the pro-domain of ADAMTS10. The novel variation replaces a highly evolutionary conserved tyrosine with histidine. This change may affect the secretion or function of ADAMTS10 in the extracellular matrix. The compromise in protease activity may thus cause the unique presentation of the developed membranes in the heart and their recurrence after surgery.

Citation: Levitas A, et al. A Novel Mutation in the ADAMTS10 Associated with Weil-Marchesani Syndrome with a Unique Presentation of Developed Membranes Causing Severe Stenosis of the Supra Pulmonic, Supramitral, and Subaortic Areas in the Heart. A Novel Mutation in the ADAMTS10 Associated with Weil-Marchesani Syndrome with a Unique Presentation of Developed Membranes Causing Severe Stenosis of the Supra Pulmonic, Supramitral, and Subaortic Areas in the Heart. 2023; 24:(unknown pages). doi: 10.3390/ijms24108864

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37240210/
