PMID: 37241139
Title: Right-Sided Minimally Invasive Direct Coronary Artery Bypass: Clinical Experience and Perspectives.

Abstract: Objective: Minimally invasive direct coronary artery bypass grafting (MIDCAB) using the left internal thoracic artery to the left descending artery is a clinical routine in the treatment of coronary artery disease. Far less is known on right-sided MIDCAB (r-MIDCAB) using the right internal thoracic artery (RITA) to the right coronary artery (RCA). We aimed to present our experience in patients with complex coronary artery disease who underwent r-MIDCAB. Materials and Methods: Between October 2019 and January 2023, 11 patients received r-MIDCAB using RITA to RCA bypass in a minimally invasive technique via right anterior minithoracotomy without using a cardiopulmonary bypass. Underlying coronary disease was complex right coronary artery stenosis (n = 7) and anomalous right coronary artery (ARCA; n = 4). All procedure-related and outcome data were evaluated prospectively. Results: Successful minimally invasive revascularization was achieved in all patients (n = 11). There were no conversions to sternotomy and no re-explorations for bleeding. Furthermore, no myocardial infarction, no strokes, and, most importantly, no deaths were observed. During the follow-up period (median 24 months), all patients were alive and 90% were completely angina free. Two patients received a repeated revascularization after surgery but independently from the RITA-RCA bypass, which was fully competent in both patients. Conclusion: Right-sided MIDCAB can be performed safely and effectively in patients with expected technically challenging percutaneous coronary intervention of the RCA and in patients with ARCA. Mid-term results showed high freedom from angina in nearly all patients. Further studies with larger patient cohorts and more evidence are needed to provide the best revascularization strategy for patients suffering from isolated complex RCA stenosis and ARCA.

Citation: Hecker F, et al. Right-Sided Minimally Invasive Direct Coronary Artery Bypass: Clinical Experience and Perspectives. Right-Sided Minimally Invasive Direct Coronary Artery Bypass: Clinical Experience and Perspectives. 2023; 59:(unknown pages). doi: 10.3390/medicina59050907

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37241139/
