PMID: 37243696
Title: Anastomotic leaks and the relationship with anastomotic strictures after esophageal atresia surgery; effects of patient characteristics.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: This study aimed to evaluate the link between anastomotic leaks (AL) and anastomotic strictures (AS) after esophageal atresia surgery and the influence of patient demographics.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: The clinical data of neonates who underwent surgical repair for esophageal atresia were retrospectively reviewed. The results of AL treatment and the relationship with AS, also the effects of patient characteristics were examined with logistic regression analysis.
RESULTS: Primary repair was performed on 122 of 125 patients who underwent surgery for esophageal atresia. AL occurred in 25 patients and 21 were treated non-operatively. While 4 patients were re-operated, AL recurred in 3 and led to the death of one. There was no correlation between the development of AL and sex or the presence of additional anomalies. The gestational age and birth weight of patients with AL were significantly higher than those of patients without. AS developed in 45 patients. The mean gestational age was significantly higher in patients who developed AS (p &lt; .001). While the development of AS was significantly higher in patients with AL (p = .001), the number of dilatation sessions needed was also significantly higher in these patients (p = .026). Complications related to anastomosis were less common in patients whose gestational age was ≤33 weeks.
CONCLUSION: Non-operative treatment remains effective for AL after esophageal atresia surgery. AL increases the risk of developing AS and significantly increases the number of dilatation sessions needed. Anastomotic complications are less common in patients with lower gestational age.NOVEL ASPECTSGestational age and birth weight were found to be significantly higher in patients with anastomotic leaks than in those without and fewer anastomotic complications were encountered in patients whose gestational age was ≤ 33 weeks.Anastomotic stricture development was significantly higher in patients with anastomotic leaks and the number of dilatation sessions needed for treatment was also significantly higher in these patients.

Citation: Okumuş M, et al. Anastomotic leaks and the relationship with anastomotic strictures after esophageal atresia surgery; effects of patient characteristics. Anastomotic leaks and the relationship with anastomotic strictures after esophageal atresia surgery; effects of patient characteristics. 2024; 124:114-120. doi: 10.1080/00015458.2023.2219521

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37243696/
