PMID: 37254466
Title: Predictive Value of the Neutrophil-to-Lymphocyte Ratio, Platelet-to-Lymphocyte Ratio, and Monocyte-to-Lymphocyte Ratio Esophageal Stricture After Endoscopic Submucosal Dissection of Early Esophageal Cancer.

Abstract: BACKGROUND Endoscopic submucosal dissection (ESD) has become a preferred treatment method for patients with early esophageal cancer (EEC), but it can easily be complicated by esophageal stricture. In this study, we aimed to analyze the predictive value of neutrophil-to-lymphocyte ratio (NLR), platelet-to-lymphocyte ratio (PLR), and monocyte-to-lymphocyte ratio (MLR) for post-ESD esophageal stricture of EEC. MATERIAL AND METHODS A retrospective study of 285 patients with EEC who underwent ESD was conducted. Patients were divided into 2 groups according to whether there were complications of esophageal stricture: the stricture group (n=72) and the non-stricture group (n=213). A t test or chi-squared test was used to compare the clinical differences in different subgroups. Receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curves were plotted to determine and compare the predictive value of NLR, PLR, and MLR in post-ESD esophageal stricture. Spearman correlation was used to detect the relationship between NLR, PLR, and MLR and the severity of esophageal stricture. RESULTS The NLR, PLR, and MLR values in the stricture group were higher than those in the non-stricture group, and there was a positive correlation between NLR and MLR and the severity of stricture according to the Spearman correlation test (P<0.05). ROC analysis showed that the area under the ROC curve value of the combination of NLR, PLR, and MLR (0.850) was higher than the NLR (0.792), PLR (0.774), and MLR (0.768). CONCLUSIONS The combination of NLR, PLR, and MLR could help clinicians to predict post-ESD esophageal stricture in the early stage.

Citation: Liu S, et al. Predictive Value of the Neutrophil-to-Lymphocyte Ratio, Platelet-to-Lymphocyte Ratio, and Monocyte-to-Lymphocyte Ratio Esophageal Stricture After Endoscopic Submucosal Dissection of Early Esophageal Cancer. Predictive Value of the Neutrophil-to-Lymphocyte Ratio, Platelet-to-Lymphocyte Ratio, and Monocyte-to-Lymphocyte Ratio Esophageal Stricture After Endoscopic Submucosal Dissection of Early Esophageal Cancer. 2023; 29:e940041. doi: 10.12659/MSM.940041

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37254466/
