PMID: 37252485
Title: Gross Appearances of the Posterior Cruciate Ligament Correlate With Its Histological Features but not With In Vivo Function in Cruciate-Retaining Total Knee Arthroplasty.

Abstract: Background No study has evaluated whether the macroscopic appearance or histological features of the posterior cruciate ligament (PCL) affect the in vivo PCL function in cruciate-retaining (CR) total knee arthroplasty (TKA). The aim of this study is to elucidate the correlation between intraoperative gross appearances of the PCL and clinical parameters, their corresponding histological features, and the in vivo function. Methods The intraoperative gross appearances of the PCLs were evaluated; we also examined their correlations with clinical parameters, corresponding histological features, and the in vivo function in CR-TKA. Results There were significant correlations between intraoperative gross appearances of the PCL and that of the anterior cruciate ligament, the preoperative knee flexion angle, and the intercondylar notch stenosis. There was a significant correlation between the intraoperative gross appearance in the middle part and the corresponding histological features. However, there was no significant correlation between the intraoperative gross appearance or histological features and the PCL tension, amount of rollback, and maximum knee flexion angle. Conclusions The intraoperative gross appearance of the PCL correlated with clinical parameters. Also, there was a significant correlation between the intraoperative gross appearance in the middle part and the corresponding histological features; however, there was no correlation between the intraoperative gross appearance or histological features and the in vivo function.

Citation: Hayashi S and Miyazaki S. Gross Appearances of the Posterior Cruciate Ligament Correlate With Its Histological Features but not With In Vivo Function in Cruciate-Retaining Total Knee Arthroplasty. Gross Appearances of the Posterior Cruciate Ligament Correlate With Its Histological Features but not With In Vivo Function in Cruciate-Retaining Total Knee Arthroplasty. 2023; 15:e38128. doi: 10.7759/cureus.38128

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37252485/
