PMID: 37253625
Title: Combining Laminoplasty With Artificial Disc Replacement for the Treatment of Cervical Spondylotic Myelopathy With Congenital Cervical Stenosis.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Cervical spondylotic myelopathy (CSM) is a very common and devastating spinal disease. Congenital cervical stenosis (CCS) is the most common cause. We aimed to elucidate the security, effectivity, and feasibility of surgery combining laminoplasty with artificial disc replacement (ADR) to treat CSM patients with radiculopathy, especially for preserving the range of motion (ROM) of the cervical spine.
METHOD: Between August 2008 and April 2019, 39 patients with multiple CSM caused by CCS were enrolled in the present study. All patients received laminoplasty first and then ADR. We used a retrospective collection of data for evaluating the functional and radiologic outcomes, especially regarding preservation of ROM.
RESULTS: Each patient underwent at least a 2-year postoperative follow-up. The Japanese Orthopedic Association score showed great improvements at 6 months. The ADR index-level ROM was preserved during follow-up. The subaxial Cobb angle could also be retained in the whole cervical spine, and the spinal canal diameter could be expanded by more than 52.6%. There were no severe complications or side effects, and no patients needed secondary surgery.
CONCLUSIONS: We aimed to treat multiple levels of CSM with adequate decompression without too many intervertebral disc replacements. We were able to expand the spinal canal directly for these patients with CCS and needed only 1- or 2-level ADR to treat them with associated radiculopathy. This combined surgical strategy was secure, effective, and was able to preserve the ROM of the cervical spine.

Citation: Liu ZQ, et al. Combining Laminoplasty With Artificial Disc Replacement for the Treatment of Cervical Spondylotic Myelopathy With Congenital Cervical Stenosis. Combining Laminoplasty With Artificial Disc Replacement for the Treatment of Cervical Spondylotic Myelopathy With Congenital Cervical Stenosis. 2023; 17:492-501. doi: 10.14444/8475

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37253625/
