PMID: 37268828
Title: Incidence and Mechanism of Refractory Postoperative Cholangitis After Hepatectomy with Hepaticojejunostomy.

Abstract: INTRODUCTION: Malignant tumors, such as hilar cholangiocarcinoma, have shown improved long-term outcomes, and measures to prevent late postoperative complications are important. Postoperative cholangitis after hepatectomy with hepaticojejunostomy (HHJ) may occur and can significantly decrease the quality of life. However, there are few reports on the incidence and pathogenesis of postoperative cholangitis after HHJ.
METHODS: We retrospectively reviewed 71 cases post HHJ at Tokyo Medical and Dental University Hospital from January 2010 to December 2021. Cholangitis was diagnosed using the Tokyo Guideline 2018. Cases due to tumor recurrence around the hepaticojejunostomy (HJ) were excluded. Patients with three or more episodes of cholangitis were classified as the "refractory cholangitis group" (RC group). RC group patients were divided into a "stenosis group" and "non-stenosis group" according to intrahepatic bile duct dilatation at the onset of cholangitis. Their clinical characteristics and risk factors were analyzed.
RESULTS: Cholangitis occurred in 20 patients (28.1%), with 17 (23.9%) in the RC group. Most patients in the RC group developed their first episode within the first postoperative year. The stenosis group consisted of 6 patients, and their cholangitis was treated with repeated anastomotic dilatation and stent replacement. In the non-stenosis group, cholangitis was relatively mild and treated with antibiotics. Hepatobiliary scintigraphy for these cases showed bile congestion in the jejunum near the site of the hepaticojejunostomy.
CONCLUSION: There are two types of postoperative cholangitis, each with different pathogenesis and treatment. It is essential to assess anastomotic stenosis early and provide the necessary treatment.

Citation: Koichiro M, et al. Incidence and Mechanism of Refractory Postoperative Cholangitis After Hepatectomy with Hepaticojejunostomy. Incidence and Mechanism of Refractory Postoperative Cholangitis After Hepatectomy with Hepaticojejunostomy. 2023; 27:1668-1676. doi: 10.1007/s11605-023-05724-7

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37268828/
