PMID: 37262314
Title: Development of a Silk Fibroin-Small Intestinal Submucosa Small-Diameter Vascular Graft with Sequential VEGF and TGF-β1 Inhibitor Delivery for In Situ Tissue Engineering.

Abstract: Proper endothelialization and limited collagen deposition on the luminal surface after graft implantation plays a crucial role to prevent the occurrence of stenosis. To achieve these conditions, a biodegradable graft with adequate mechanical properties and the ability to sequentially deliver therapeutic agents isfabricated. In this study, a dual-release system is constructed through coaxial electrospinning by incorporating recombinant human vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) and transforming growth factor β1 (TGF-β1) inhibitor into silk fibroin (SF) nanofibers to form a bioactive membrane. The functionalized SF membrane as the inner layer of the graft is characterized by the release profile, cell proliferation and protein expression. It presents excellent biocompatibility and biodegradation, facilitating cell attachment, proliferation, and infiltration. The core-shell structure enables rapid VEGF release within 10 days and sustained plasmid delivery for 21 days. A 2.0-mm-diameter vascular graft is fabricated by integrating the SF membrane with decellularized porcine small intestinal submucosa (SIS), aiming to facilitate the integration process under a stable extracellular matrix structure. The bioengineered graft is functionalized with the sequential administration of VEGF and TGF-β1, and with the reinforced and compatible mechanical properties, thereby offers an orchestrated solution for stenosis with potential for in situ vascular tissue engineering applications.

Citation: Liu Z, et al. Development of a Silk Fibroin-Small Intestinal Submucosa Small-Diameter Vascular Graft with Sequential VEGF and TGF-β1 Inhibitor Delivery for In Situ Tissue Engineering. Development of a Silk Fibroin-Small Intestinal Submucosa Small-Diameter Vascular Graft with Sequential VEGF and TGF-β1 Inhibitor Delivery for In Situ Tissue Engineering. 2023; 23:e2300184. doi: 10.1002/mabi.202300184

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37262314/
