PMID: 37271937
Title: Feasibility of Intravascular Lithotripsy for the Treatment of Calcified Supra-Aortic Vessels: A Case Report and Literature Review.

Abstract: PURPOSE: To report a case of coronary-subclavian steal syndrome (CSSS) due to a history of a left internal mammary artery (LIMA) to left anterior descending (LAD) artery coronary bypass (CABG) and a heavily calcified ostial left subclavian artery (LSA) occlusion, that was treated with intravascular lithotripsy (IVL) technique and to summarize the current trends of IVL treatment for supra-aortic vessels.
CASE REPORT: A 64-year-old woman with progressive intermittent angina pectoris and a history of LIMA to LAD bypass underwent coronary angiography which demonstrated complete ostial occlusion of the LSA. Via brachial access, the patient underwent Shockwave IVL balloon treatment of the LSA and stent-graft implantation. At 9 months follow-up, the patient showed symptoms resolution, and duplex ultrasound (DUS) demonstrated a patent LSA.
CONCLUSIONS: The Shockwave IVL system was demonstrated to be a feasible treatment and justified for selective cases of highly calcified lesions in supra-aortic vessels. The present case report and the literature review, in a total of 47 patients resulted in a high technical procedural success rate, with a low rate of complications. Future studies with larger cohorts are warranted to confirm these findings and standardize this technology in this particular vascular field.
CLINICAL IMPACT: The present study exemplifies a case of recanalization of the left subclavian artery in a patient with coronary-subclavian steal syndrome with a heavily calcified ostial lesion treated with intravascular lithotripsy (IVL). In this paper, for the first time, a review of the contemporary literature on the use of IVL in supra-aortic vessels is reported, elucidating the feasibility of this technique in this vascular territory. Despite the heterogeneous features of the reported cases and the lack of a standardized protocol for the use of IVL in the management of highly calcified lesions of supra-aortic vessels, it was demonstrated to be a feasible technique, with a high technical success rate, being an advantageous tool for heavily calcified supra-aortic lesions.

Citation: Bilman V, et al. Feasibility of Intravascular Lithotripsy for the Treatment of Calcified Supra-Aortic Vessels: A Case Report and Literature Review. Feasibility of Intravascular Lithotripsy for the Treatment of Calcified Supra-Aortic Vessels: A Case Report and Literature Review. 2023; (unknown volume):15266028231175604. doi: 10.1177/15266028231175604

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37271937/
