PMID: 37271867
Title: Use of Mitomycin-C in Laryngotracheal Stenosis: A Focused Clinical Review.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Therapeutic options for managing laryngotracheal stenosis (LTS) are limited. Endoscopy is a minimally invasive approach to treating LTS, but carries a high risk of stenosis recurrence. Mitomycin C (MMC) is often used as an adjunct therapy to delay the time to symptomatic recurrence of LTS. This review synthesizes the current literature on the topic of MMC as an adjunct treatment strategy for LTS.
METHODS: A focused literature search was carried out from PubMed on June 12, 2022 using the terms "mitomycin c AND stenosis" in all fields with no date limitations. Evidence-based recommendations relevant to the clinical application of MMC as an adjunct therapy for LTS were formulated. Three questions were addressed: 1) efficacy of MMC, 2) single versus multiple application(s) of MMC, and 3) safety of MMC. The evidence rating and recommendation strength were guided by the GRADE system.
RESULTS: Twenty-nine studies were reviewed. The efficacy of MMC as an adjunct therapy for LTS varied across studies. Randomized controlled trials have not shown an outcome difference with MMC use, although methodologic flaws including underpowering were noted. A meta-analysis of observational studies with a comparator arm found the unadjusted probability of remaining symptom-free for > 1 year is greater with versus without MMC application (73% vs. 35%). Single versus multiple application(s) of MMC resulted in similar restenosis rates at long-term follow-up. Complications related to MMC use are rarely reported using conventional doses (0.4 mg/mL). Overall, the quality of evidence was low and the recommendation for intervention was weak.
CONCLUSION: The role for MMC as an adjunct therapy in LTS is uncertain. While safe in its application, the efficacy of MMC in reducing stenosis recurrence remains a matter of debate. Large, prospective studies are needed to inform future recommendations.

Citation: Di Felice C, et al. Use of Mitomycin-C in Laryngotracheal Stenosis: A Focused Clinical Review. Use of Mitomycin-C in Laryngotracheal Stenosis: A Focused Clinical Review. 2023; 30:223-231. doi: 10.1097/LBR.0000000000000933

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37271867/
