PMID: 37278074
Title: Neo-glans reconstruction with dartos flaps covered with buccal mucosal graft after total glans amputation during circumcision: novel technique.

Abstract: Penile glans amputation is a rare and catastrophic complication of circumcision. Reconstruction of the penile glans was indicated following amputation. Our report discusses a novel technique for reconfiguration of the amputated penile glans of a 5-year-old male admitted 6 months following a complicated circumcision. The parents complained of severe meatal stenosis and penile disfigurement. The penis was 3 cm long. Complete penile degloving was performed. The distal part of the remaining penis was prepared by removing fibrous tissue. Dartos flaps, which had been placed on the dorsal side by the previous surgery center, were divided into two similar parts from the ventral side and opened to both sides at the top of the penis, such as a curtain, and a glanular collar-like structure was obtained by bringing 5 cm × 3 cm buccal mucosa. This structure was covered on the penis as glans, and the freed urethra with the spongiosum was sutured here. The patient was taken to hyperbaric oxygen therapy in the postoperative period. The patient's glans-like cosmetic structure was observed during follow-up, and the patient was urinating normally. This is the first surgical repair technique to use this method in the literature. The use of a dartos flap covered with a buccal mucosal graft is a successful and simple procedure with acceptable cosmetic and functional results for the late reconfigurating a neoglans shape after a glans penis amputation when the penile size is suitable.

Citation: Çelebi S. Neo-glans reconstruction with dartos flaps covered with buccal mucosal graft after total glans amputation during circumcision: novel technique. Neo-glans reconstruction with dartos flaps covered with buccal mucosal graft after total glans amputation during circumcision: novel technique. 2023; 29:746-751. doi: 10.14744/tjtes.2023.07903

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37278074/
