PMID: 37270353
Title: Detection of Abnormal Wall Shear Stress and Oscillatory Shear Index via Ultrasound Vector Flow Imaging as Possible Indicators for Arteriovenous Fistula Stenosis in Hemodialysis.

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: The arteriovenous fistula (AVF) is an essential vascular access for hemodialysis patients. AVF stenosis may occur at sites with abnormal wall shear stress (WSS) and oscillatory shear index (OSI), which are caused by the complex flow in the AVF. At present, an effective method for rapid determination of the WSS and OSI of the AVF is lacking. The objective of this study was to apply an ultrasound-based method for determination of the WSS and OSI to explore the risk sites of the AVF.
METHODS: In this study, the ultrasound vector flow imaging technique V Flow was applied to measure the WSS and OSI at four different regions of the AVF to detect and analyze the risk sites: (i) anastomosis region, (ii) curved region, (iii) proximal vein and (iv) distal vein. Twenty-one patients were included in this study. The relative residence time was calculated based on the measured WSS and OSI.
RESULTS: The curved region had the lowest WSS; the anastomosis region had a significantly higher OSI (p < 0.05) compared with the venous regions, and the curved region had a significantly higher RRT (p < 0.05) compared with the proximal vein region.
CONCLUSION: V Flow is a feasible tool for studying WSS variations in AVF. The possible risk site in the AVF may be located in the anastomosis and curved regions, where the latter could present a higher risk for AVF stenosis.

Citation: Ding J, et al. Detection of Abnormal Wall Shear Stress and Oscillatory Shear Index via Ultrasound Vector Flow Imaging as Possible Indicators for Arteriovenous Fistula Stenosis in Hemodialysis. Detection of Abnormal Wall Shear Stress and Oscillatory Shear Index via Ultrasound Vector Flow Imaging as Possible Indicators for Arteriovenous Fistula Stenosis in Hemodialysis. 2023; 49:1830-1836. doi: 10.1016/j.ultrasmedbio.2023.04.007

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37270353/
