PMID: 37275317
Title: Clinical Research on Transcatheter Aortic Valve Replacement for Bicuspid Aortic Valve Disease: Principles, Challenges, and an Agenda for the Future.

Abstract: Bicuspid aortic valve disease (BAVD) is present in up to half of all patients referred for surgical aortic valve replacement (SAVR) yet was an exclusion criterion for all randomized controlled trials (RCTs) comparing transcatheter aortic valve replacement (TAVR) to SAVR. Nonetheless, approximately 10% of patients currently treated with TAVR have BAVD and available observational data for performing TAVR in these patients are limited by selection bias. Many in the cardiovascular community have advocated for RCTs in this population, but none have been performed. The Heart Valve Collaboratory (HVC) is a multidisciplinary community of stakeholders with the aim of creating significant advances in valvular heart disease by stimulating clinical research, engaging in educational activities, and advancing regulatory science. In December 2020, the HVC hosted a Global Multidisciplinary workshop involving over 100 international experts in the field. Following this 2-day symposium, working groups with varied expertise were convened to discuss BAVD, including the need for and design of RCTs. This review, conducted under the auspices of the HVC, summarizes available data and knowledge gaps regarding procedural therapy for BAVD, outlining specific challenges for trials in this population. We also propose several potential studies that could be performed and discuss respective strengths and weaknesses of each approach. Finally, we present a roadmap for future directions in clinical research in TAVR for BAVD with an emphasis both on RCTs and also prospective registries focused on disease phenotyping to develop parameters and risk scores that could ultimately be applied to patients to inform clinical decision-making.

Citation: Ahmad Y, et al. Clinical Research on Transcatheter Aortic Valve Replacement for Bicuspid Aortic Valve Disease: Principles, Challenges, and an Agenda for the Future. Clinical Research on Transcatheter Aortic Valve Replacement for Bicuspid Aortic Valve Disease: Principles, Challenges, and an Agenda for the Future. 2023; 7:100102. doi: 10.1016/j.shj.2022.100102

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37275317/
