PMID: 37275098
Title: A Prospective Institutional Study on Aetiopathogenesis, Management and Complications of Laryngotracheal Stenosis.

Abstract: The main purpose of this study is to evaluate and understand the clinical profile of patients presenting to an Indian tertiary care referral centre with Laryngotracheal Stenosis (LTS) and also to emphasise on the outcomes after treatment in these patients. This is a prospective observational study conducted at a tertiary care referral centre which included 18 patients diagnosed with LTS. All patients were evaluated clinically and radiologically to evaluate the degree of stenosis, site and length of the stenotic segment involved, intervened surgical procedure, intraoperative and postoperative complications following the procedure were all documented and taken into consideration. The data collected was analysed. The most common etiological cause of LTS was post intubation (77.8%). 61.5% among the 13 intubated patients had a history of intubation for more than 10 days. 83.3% of the cases had stenosis at the level of the subglottis and cervical trachea level. Post intubational airway stenosis is the most common cause of LTS. A precise assessment of the laryngotracheal complex is the cornerstone of LTS management. The choice of treatment depends on the location, severity, and length of stenosis, as well as on the patient's comorbidities, history of previous interventions, and on the expertise of the surgical team. Application of topical Mitomycin c during surgery reduces the incidence of granulations. Close postoperative follow up for a long time and the necessity of more than one intervention improves results and can spare patients the morbidity and mortality associated with acute airway obstruction.

Citation: Padmanabhan S, et al. A Prospective Institutional Study on Aetiopathogenesis, Management and Complications of Laryngotracheal Stenosis. A Prospective Institutional Study on Aetiopathogenesis, Management and Complications of Laryngotracheal Stenosis. 2023; 75:835-841. doi: 10.1007/s12070-023-03528-4

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37275098/
