PMID: 37279569
Title: Long-term patency of aorto-biiliac endoprosthesis for critical lower limb ischaemia in Takayasu arteritis after complicated angioplasty with a drug-coated balloon: Effect of dual antiplatelet therapy combined with tocilizumab.

Abstract: Takayasu arteritis is a chronic granulomatous vasculitis of unknown aetiology affecting the aorta and its major branches. Critical limb ischaemia may occur and eventually require surgical intervention. Surgical outcomes are influenced by disease activity, age, and comorbidities. We report a 43-year-old woman with Takayasu arteritis and stenosis of the left common iliac artery and occlusion of the left external iliac artery with limiting vascular claudication, who underwent angioplasty of the iliac artery with drug-eluting stent while being treated with infliximab. The artery ruptured a week later but was contained by the ilio-psoas muscle. She required subsequent stent placement to correct the lesion. Treatment comprised aspirin and clopidogrel, and the biological was switched to monthly intravenous tocilizumab. During an 8-year follow-up, serial imaging examinations showed a patent aorto-biiliac endoprosthesis, without evidence of thrombosis or restenosis. Clinically, the patient denies vascular claudication and pulses remain palpable in the left lower limb. This case highlights the risks inherent to these procedures in patients with large artery vasculitis and reinforces that the effectiveness of endovascular intervention can be increased by detailed preoperative evaluation, associated with a drug strategy including immunomodulatory and antiplatelet therapy as directed by the multispecialty team. Periodic imaging examinations are required because of the reported high rate of restenosis.

Citation: Leal TP, et al. Long-term patency of aorto-biiliac endoprosthesis for critical lower limb ischaemia in Takayasu arteritis after complicated angioplasty with a drug-coated balloon: Effect of dual antiplatelet therapy combined with tocilizumab. Long-term patency of aorto-biiliac endoprosthesis for critical lower limb ischaemia in Takayasu arteritis after complicated angioplasty with a drug-coated balloon: Effect of dual antiplatelet therapy combined with tocilizumab. 2023; 8:101-106. doi: 10.1093/mrcr/rxad030

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37279569/
