PMID: 37287415
Title: Lesion patterns and mechanism analysis of acute contralateral ischemic stroke accompanying stenosis of unilateral extracranial internal carotid artery.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Previous studies on unilateral internal carotid artery occlusive disease have focused on the mechanisms of ipsilateral hemispheric stroke, and contralateral stroke is considered to be an accidental phenomenon. Little is known about the relationship between severe stenosis (including occlusion) of the unilateral extracranial segment of the internal carotid artery and contralateral cerebral stroke, and the infarct patterns and pathogenesis require further study. The purpose of this study was to investigate the clinical characteristics and pathogenesis of contralateral acute stroke with unilateral extracranial internal carotid artery stenosis (including occlusion).
METHODS: Thirty-four patients were enrolled in this study, and all patients underwent routine clinical evaluation, including medical history, physical examination, laboratory tests, and various imaging evaluations. The morphological characteristics of diffusion-weighted magnetic resonance imaging were applied to determine infarct patterns. The etiological classification was confirmed according to the TOAST classification.
RESULTS: There were six distinctive lesion patterns: small subcortical infarcts (six patients), large subcortical infarcts (one patient), diffuse infarcts (eight patients), multiple anterior circulation infarcts (eight patients), multiple posterior circulation infarcts (two patients), and multiple anterior and posterior circulation infarcts (nine patients).
CONCLUSION: Diffuse and multiple infarcts were the most common topographic patterns in ischemic stroke contralateral to internal carotid artery stenosis or occlusion. Hemodynamic impairment of the contralateral hemisphere due to hypoperfusion and blood theft is regarded as the basis of stroke occurrence. Low ischemic tolerance and embolism are the main causes of acute ischemic stroke.

Citation: Li M, et al. Lesion patterns and mechanism analysis of acute contralateral ischemic stroke accompanying stenosis of unilateral extracranial internal carotid artery. Lesion patterns and mechanism analysis of acute contralateral ischemic stroke accompanying stenosis of unilateral extracranial internal carotid artery. 2023; 13:e3111. doi: 10.1002/brb3.3111

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37287415/
