PMID: 37287246
Title: A Case of Complete Resolution of Cauda Equina Syndrome Caused by Extensive Iliocaval Thrombosis: The Role of Thrombolysis and Venous Stents.

Abstract: PURPOSE: The cauda equina syndrome (CES) is a rare condition affecting less than 1 in 100,000 patients annually. Diagnosing CES is challenging because of its rare incidence, potentially subtle presentation, and various underlying etiologies. Vascular causes, such as inferior vena cava (IVC) thrombosis, are uncommon but should be considered, since timely recognition and treatment of deep vein thrombosis (DVT) as a cause of CES can avoid irreversible neurological damage.
CASE REPORT: A 30-year-old male presented with partial CES caused by nerve root compression due to venous congestion from an extensive iliocaval DVT. He completely recovered after thrombolysis and stenting of the IVC. His iliocaval tract remained patent until the last date of follow-up at 1 year without signs of post-thrombotic syndrome. Broad molecular, infectious, and hematological laboratory tests did not reveal any underlying disease for the thrombotic event, particularly no hereditary or acquired thrombophilia.
CONCLUSION: Timely recognition of venous thrombosis as a cause of CES is essential. This is the first case report of CES caused by an extensive iliocaval DVT successfully treated with thrombolysis and venous stenting with good resolution of DVT and CES.
CLINICAL IMPACT: This case-report describes a patient with cauda equina syndrome resulting from an extensive iliocaval deep vein thrombosis due to an underlying stenosis of the inferior vena cava. Thrombolysis and venous stenting succesfully restored venous patency and thereby relieved symptoms and signs of cauda equina syndrome, in addition to (long-term) therapeutic dose anticoagulation. It is important to timely recognize deep vein thrombosis as a cause of cauda equina syndrome and to consider endovenous treatment in a specialized center.

Citation: Bakas JM, et al. A Case of Complete Resolution of Cauda Equina Syndrome Caused by Extensive Iliocaval Thrombosis: The Role of Thrombolysis and Venous Stents. A Case of Complete Resolution of Cauda Equina Syndrome Caused by Extensive Iliocaval Thrombosis: The Role of Thrombolysis and Venous Stents. 2023; (unknown volume):15266028231179596. doi: 10.1177/15266028231179596

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37287246/
