PMID: 37280481
Title: Successful treatment of postoperative nonobstructive recurrent cholangitis by tract conversion surgery after total pancreatectomy: a case report.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Postoperative cholangitis is a complication of biliary reconstruction during hepatobiliary pancreatic surgery. Most cases are associated with anastomotic stenosis, but there are also cases of cholangitis without stenosis, and treatment can be difficult, especially in patients with recurrent symptoms. In this report, we describe a case of repeated nonobstructive cholangitis in a patient after total pancreatectomy, in which a good outcome was obtained after performing tract conversion surgery.
CASE PRESENTATION: The patient was a 75-year-old man. He underwent total pancreatectomy for stage IIA cancer of the pancreatic body, hepaticojejunostomy via the posterior colonic route, gastrojejunostomy and Braun anastomosis via the anterior colonic route using the Billroth II method. The patient had a good postoperative course and was receiving adjuvant chemotherapy on an outpatient basis, but he developed his first episode of cholangitis 4 months after surgery. Although conservative treatment with antimicrobial agents was successful, the patient continued to have recurrent biliary cholangitis and was repeatedly admitted and discharged from the hospital. Since stenosis at the anastomosis was suspected, endoscopic observation of the anastomosis was performed using small bowel endoscopy for close examination, but no apparent stenosis was observed. Small bowel imaging indicated a possible influx of contrast medium into the bile duct, and reflux due to food residue was suspected as the cause of cholangitis. Since conservative treatment alone did not suppress the flare-up of symptoms, the decision was made to perform tract conversion surgery for curative purposes. The afferent loop was cut midstream, and jejunojejunostomy was performed downstream. The postoperative course was good, and the patient was discharged on the 10th day after surgery. He is currently an outpatient and has been free of cholangitis symptoms for 4 years without cancer recurrence.
CONCLUSIONS: Although the diagnosis of nonobstructive retrograde cholangitis can be difficult, surgical treatment should be considered in patients with recurrent symptoms and refractory treatment.

Citation: Odaira M, et al. Successful treatment of postoperative nonobstructive recurrent cholangitis by tract conversion surgery after total pancreatectomy: a case report. Successful treatment of postoperative nonobstructive recurrent cholangitis by tract conversion surgery after total pancreatectomy: a case report. 2023; 9:97. doi: 10.1186/s40792-023-01686-9

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37280481/
