PMID: 37286484
Title: Distal Endovascular Occlusion for Incomplete Occlusion of Cavernous Carotid Aneurysms after High-flow Bypass and Cervical Internal Carotid Artery Ligation.

Abstract: Internal carotid artery (ICA) ligation for placing a high-flow extracranial-intracranial (EC-IC) bypass is used in patients with aneurysms on the cavernous portion of the ICA. Recanalization and rupture after proximal ICA ligation can occur. We present four patients who underwent endovascular distal ICA occlusion and report our surgical technique and treatment results. We ligated the ICA to place an EC-IC bypass using a radial artery (RA) graft. Failure to obtain spontaneous occlusion in the distal region required endovascular treatment an average of 219 days later. A guide catheter was placed in the common carotid artery, a guide or distal access catheter was introduced in the RA graft from the external carotid artery, and a microcatheter was navigated into the cavernous aneurysm through the RA graft. Using detachable coils, endovascular ICA occlusion was from just distal to the aneurysmal neck to a site proximal to the origin of the ophthalmic artery. Aneurysmal occlusion was completed by endovascular occlusion of the distal ICA. Complications were RA graft stenosis and transient consciousness disturbance due to local subarachnoid hemorrhage. Outpatient follow-up for a mean of 109.5 months revealed no recurrences. Distal occlusion of the ICA through the implanted RA graft is simple and presents a low risk for cerebral infarction due to thrombus formation during the procedure. To treat cavernous carotid aneurysms that do not disappear after placing the EC-IC bypass after ICA ligation at the aneurysmal neck, we offer our procedure as a treatment option.

Citation: Ideguchi M, et al. Distal Endovascular Occlusion for Incomplete Occlusion of Cavernous Carotid Aneurysms after High-flow Bypass and Cervical Internal Carotid Artery Ligation. Distal Endovascular Occlusion for Incomplete Occlusion of Cavernous Carotid Aneurysms after High-flow Bypass and Cervical Internal Carotid Artery Ligation. 2023; 63:356-363. doi: 10.2176/jns-nmc.2022-0303

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37286484/
