PMID: 37284999
Title: Procoagulant effect of extracellular vesicles in patients after transcatheter aortic valve replacement or transcatheter aortic valve replacement with percutaneous coronary intervention.

Abstract: Patients with severe aortic stenosis (AS) after replacement of the transcatheter aortic valve (TAVR) are more likely to develop thrombotic complications such as cerebral embolism and artificial valve thrombosis. However, the mechanism is not yet well defined. We aimed to explore the plasma extracellular vesicles (EVs) levels and their role in the induction of procoagulant activity (PCA) in patients receiving TAVR alone or TAVR with percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI). EVs were analyzed with flow cytometer. Markers of platelet and endothelial cell activation were quantified using selective enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) kits. Procoagulant activity (PCA) was assessed by clotting time, purified clotting complex assays, and fibrin production assays. Our results confirmed that EVs with positive phosphatedylserin (PS+EV), platelet EVs (PEVs) and positive tissue factor EVs (TF+EVs) were higher in patients following TAVR than before TAVR, particularly in TAVR with PCI. Furthermore, endothelial-derived EVs (EEVs) were also higher in patients after TAVR with PCI than pre-TAVR, however, the EEVs levels in TAVR alone patients were gradually reduce than pre-TAVR. In addition, we further proved that total EVs contributed to dramatically shortened coagulation time, increased intrinsic/extrinsic factor Xa and thrombin generation in patients after TAVR, especially in TAVR with PCI. The PCA was markedly attenuated by approximately 80% with lactucin. Our study reveals a previously unrecognized link between plasma EV levels and hypercoagulability in patients after TAVR, especially TAVR with PCI. Blockade of PS+EVs may improve the hypercoagulable state and prognosis of patients.

Citation: Chi H, et al. Procoagulant effect of extracellular vesicles in patients after transcatheter aortic valve replacement or transcatheter aortic valve replacement with percutaneous coronary intervention. Procoagulant effect of extracellular vesicles in patients after transcatheter aortic valve replacement or transcatheter aortic valve replacement with percutaneous coronary intervention. 2023; 56:264-274. doi: 10.1007/s11239-023-02835-5

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37284999/
