PMID: 37308350
Title: Comparison of single coronal thick-slab minimum intensity projection with flexible bronchoscopy for airway compression in children with lymphobronchial tuberculosis.

Abstract: AIM: To generate standardised coronal minimum intensity projection (MinIP) computed tomography (CT) reconstructions, and compare these with flexible bronchoscopy in children with lymphobronchial tuberculosis (LBTB).
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Standardised coronal MinIP reconstructions were performed from CT images in children with LBTB and the findings of three readers were compared with the reference standard, flexible bronchoscopy (FB), regarding airway narrowing. Intraluminal lesions, the site of the stenosis, and the degree of stenosis were also evaluated. The length of stenosis was evaluated by CT MinIP only.
RESULTS: Sixty-five children (38 males; 58.5% and 27 females; 41.5%), with ages ranging from 2.5 to 144 months were evaluated. Coronal CT MinIP demonstrated a sensitivity of 96% and specificity of 89% against FB. The most common site of stenosis was the bronchus intermedius (91%), followed by the left main bronchus (85%), the right upper lobe bronchus RUL (66%), and the trachea (60%).
CONCLUSION: Coronal CT MinIP reconstruction is useful in demonstrating airway stenosis in children with lymphobronchial TB, with high sensitivity and specificity. CT MinIP had additional advantages over FB in that it allowed objective measurement of the diameter of stenosis, measurement of the length of stenosis, and evaluation of post-stenotic segments of the airways and lung parenchymal abnormalities.

Citation: Venkatakrishna SSB, et al. Comparison of single coronal thick-slab minimum intensity projection with flexible bronchoscopy for airway compression in children with lymphobronchial tuberculosis. Comparison of single coronal thick-slab minimum intensity projection with flexible bronchoscopy for airway compression in children with lymphobronchial tuberculosis. 2023; 78:576-583. doi: 10.1016/j.crad.2023.03.021

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37308350/
