PMID: 37308613
Title: Effect of ureteral stricture in transplant kidney and choice of treatment on long-term graft survival.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: To explore the risk factors of ureteral stricture in transplant kidney and the clinical effects of different treatment methods.
METHODS: The 62 patients with transplant kidney ureteral stenosis as the experimental group, and another group of recipients from the same donor as the control group (n = 59 cases). The risk factors for ureteral stricture and the survival rate of transplant kidney were analyzed and compared. The 62 patients were divided into open operation, luminal operation, and magnetic compression anastomosis (MCA) operation group. The effect of the operation and the survival rate of transplant kidney among the three groups were compared.
RESULTS: In our study, we found that the above differences were statistically significant in clinical data such as gender, multiple donor renal arteries, history of infection, and delayed graft function (DGF) between the two groups (P < 0.05). Urinary tract infection and DGF history were the independent risk factors for the development of ureteral stricture. The open operation had the best treatment effect and the survival rate of the transplant kidney, followed by the MCA, the stricture recurrence rate in the luminal operation was the highest.
CONCLUSION: The ureteral stricture has a negative correlation with the long-term survival rate of the transplant kidney, the curative rate and long-term effect of open surgery are the best, stricture recurrence rate of luminal surgery is high, and it may require multiple operations in the future, the MCA is a new breakthrough and innovation in the treatment of ureteral stricture.

Citation: Zhang J, et al. Effect of ureteral stricture in transplant kidney and choice of treatment on long-term graft survival. Effect of ureteral stricture in transplant kidney and choice of treatment on long-term graft survival. 2023; 55:2193-2203. doi: 10.1007/s11255-023-03669-z

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37308613/
