PMID: 37309107
Title: Preoperative Contrast Examinations Help Determine the Appropriate Cervical Approach for Congenital Gross Type C Esophageal Atresia: A Report of Two Cases.

Abstract: BACKGROUND Kluth demonstrated that esophageal atresia/tracheoesophageal fistula (EA/TEF) has several anatomical variations and thus requires a preoperative imaging study to determine the surgical strategy. We routinely perform a contrast examination with iodixanol to assess the location of the TEF and the upper end of the esophageal pouch to determine the most appropriate approach. We herein present two cases of type C EA/TEF who successfully underwent radical surgery by a cervical approach based on the information from the contrast examination. CASE REPORT Case 1 was a Japanese boy suspected of type C EA/TEF after birth. A contrast examination with iodixanol showed that a TEF was at the second thoracic vertebra (Th2), as was the upper end of the esophageal pouch. Thus, the patient underwent esophago-esophageal anastomosis and TEF ligation using a cervical approach; the postoperative course was uneventful. Case 2 was also a Japanese boy suspected of type C EA/TEF. A contrast examination showed that the TEF was at Th1-2, as was the upper end of the esophageal pouch. Thus, the patient underwent esophago-esophageal anastomosis and TEF ligation using a cervical approach. The patient suffered from congenital tracheal stenosis and required tracheoplasty. However, there were no apparent complications after the surgery. CONCLUSIONS Here, we used the imaging information to adopt the cervical approach in type C EA/TEF cases and concluded that routine preoperative contrast examinations helped assess the TEF location and upper end of the esophageal pouch without significant complications.

Citation: Nakagawa Y, et al. Preoperative Contrast Examinations Help Determine the Appropriate Cervical Approach for Congenital Gross Type C Esophageal Atresia: A Report of Two Cases. Preoperative Contrast Examinations Help Determine the Appropriate Cervical Approach for Congenital Gross Type C Esophageal Atresia: A Report of Two Cases. 2023; 24:e938723. doi: 10.12659/AJCR.938723

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37309107/
