PMID: 37309521
Title: Clinical Results of 10-mm Endoscopic Minimally Invasive Interlaminar Decompression in the Treatment of Lumbar Spinal Stenosis with Degenerative Lumbar Scoliosis and Simple Lumbar Spinal Stenosis.

Abstract: PURPOSE: The number of patients with lumbar spinal stenosis (LSS) with degenerative lumbar scoliosis (DLS) is gradually increasing as the population ages. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the clinical outcomes of 10-mm endoscopic minimally invasive interlaminar decompression for LSS with DLS and simple LSS.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: The clinical data of 175 consecutive elderly patients with LSS were retrospectively analyzed. They were divided into LSS group and LSS with DLS group based on whether they were accompanied by DLS. Patient demographics, perioperative indicators, and clinical outcomes were recorded. Lumbar spine stability was assessed by imaging data. Meanwhile, visual analog scale (VAS) scores, Oswestry Disability Index (ODI) scores, and the modified Macnab criteria were used to assess clinical outcomes.
RESULTS: There were 129 patients in the LSS group and 46 patients in the LSS with DLS group. Both groups had similar VAS and ODI scores preoperatively, and both were significantly lower postoperatively (P < 0.05). However, patients combined with DLS showed higher VAS scores for low back pain at 3 months and 1 year postoperatively (P < 0.05). In addition, postoperative LL and PI-LL were significantly improved in both groups (P < 0.05). However, patients in LSS with DLS group showed higher PT, PI and PI-LL before and after surgery. According to the modified Macnab criteria, the excellent and good rates were 92.25% and 89.13% in the LSS group and LSS with DLS group at the last follow-up, respectively.
CONCLUSION: 10-mm endoscopic minimally invasive interlaminar decompression for LSS with or without DLS has shown satisfactory clinical outcomes. However, patients with DLS may have higher residual low back pain after surgery.

Citation: Li P, et al. Clinical Results of 10-mm Endoscopic Minimally Invasive Interlaminar Decompression in the Treatment of Lumbar Spinal Stenosis with Degenerative Lumbar Scoliosis and Simple Lumbar Spinal Stenosis. Clinical Results of 10-mm Endoscopic Minimally Invasive Interlaminar Decompression in the Treatment of Lumbar Spinal Stenosis with Degenerative Lumbar Scoliosis and Simple Lumbar Spinal Stenosis. 2023; 18:911-919. doi: 10.2147/CIA.S414559

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37309521/
