PMID: 37316777
Title: The natural course of incidental ureteral polyp during ureteroscopic surgery: KSER research.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: The natural course of polypoid lesions in the ureter during ureteroscopic stone surgery was not yet clarified.
METHODS: Patient data were collected prospectively from six teaching hospitals between 2019 and 2021. Patients with polypoid lesions in the ureter distal to ureteral stones were included during ureteroscopy. Computed tomography was performed on all enrolled patients three months after the procedure. Follow-up ureteroscopy was performed only if the patient consented, due to the need for general anesthesia and ethical considerations.
RESULTS: Among the 35 patients who were followed up, 14 had fibroepithelial polyps and 21 had inflammatory polyps. Twenty of the followed-up patients underwent ureteroscopy, and nine of them had fibroepithelial polyps. Although fibroepithelial polyps did not disappear in the follow-up ureteroscopy (p = 0.002), the rate of postoperative hydronephrosis was not higher in the fibroepithelial group than in the inflammatory group. Postoperative ureteral stricture and moderate-to-severe hydronephrosis were found to be closely related to the number of resected polyps, regardless of the type of polyp (p = 0.014 and 0.006, respectively).
CONCLUSION: Fibroepithelial polyps in the ureter may persist after treatment of adjacent ureter stones. However, conservative management may be preferable to active removal of ureteral polyps because fibroepithelial polyps may not contribute to clinically significant hydronephrosis after surgery, and inflammatory polyps disappear spontaneously. Hasty resections of polyps may increase the risk of ureteral stricture.

Citation: Cho SY, et al. The natural course of incidental ureteral polyp during ureteroscopic surgery: KSER research. The natural course of incidental ureteral polyp during ureteroscopic surgery: KSER research. 2023; 23:101. doi: 10.1186/s12894-023-01249-y

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37316777/
