PMID: 37318894
Title: Application and Evaluation of Real-time Three-dimensional Echocardiography in Transcatheter Aortic Valve Implantation.

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: This assessed the value of real-time three-dimensional echocardiography in patients with aortic valve lesions before and after transcatheter aortic valve implantation.
METHODS: A total of 61 patients were admitted for transcatheter aortic valve implantation due to aortic valve lesions between October 2021 and August 2022 (research group), and 55 patients who underwent a healthy physical examination during the same period (control group) were included. All participants underwent real-time three-dimensional echocardiography. Changes in left ventricular end-diastolic volume index, left ventricular end-systolic volume index, left ventricular ejection fraction, maximum velocity, and left ventricular mass index were observed at 1 week and 1 month after the surgery. Additionally, the research group was further divided based on the type of lesion to investigate the differences in real-time three-dimensional echocardiography findings between patients with moderate to severe aortic stenosis and moderate to severe aortic insufficiency. The occurrence of postoperative complications in the research group was also recorded to assess the role of real-time three-dimensional echocardiography in postoperative complication assessment after transcatheter aortic valve implantation.
RESULTS: Preoperative left ventricular ejection fraction did not differ significantly between the two groups (P > .05). However, the research group exhibited higher preoperative left ventricular end-diastolic volume index, left ventricular end-systolic volume index, left ventricular mass index, and maximum velocity compared to the control group (P < .05). At 1 week postoperatively, the research group showed significant reductions in left ventricular end-diastolic volume index, left ventricular end-systolic volume index, left ventricular mass index, and maximum velocity compared to preoperative values (P < .05). Furthermore, at 1 month postoperatively, the left ventricular mass index was further reduced (P < .05). Among the research group, patients with aortic stenosis had lower preoperative left ventricular end-diastolic volume index and left ventricular end-systolic volume index compared to patients with aortic insufficiency, while maximum velocity was higher (P < .05). Patients who experienced postoperative complications after transcatheter aortic valve implantation had lower left ventricular end-diastolic volume index, left ventricular end-systolic volume index and left ventricular mass index, and higher maximum velocity before and at 1 week after surgery (P < .05).
CONCLUSIONS: Real-time three-dimensional echocardiography demonstrated excellent assessment capabilities for aortic valve lesions and accurately guided the determination of left ventricular mass index, showcasing its significant clinical applications.

Citation: Li J, et al. Application and Evaluation of Real-time Three-dimensional Echocardiography in Transcatheter Aortic Valve Implantation. Application and Evaluation of Real-time Three-dimensional Echocardiography in Transcatheter Aortic Valve Implantation. 2023; 29:294-299.

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37318894/
