PMID: 37315878
Title: Near-infrared spectroscopy-intravascular ultrasound to improve assessment of coronary artery disease severity in patients referred for transcatheter aortic valve implantation (The IMPACTavi registry): Design and rationale.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Transcatheter aortic valve implantation (TAVI) was established as a standard treatment for high-operative risk patients with severe aortic stenosis (AS). Although coronary artery disease (CAD) often coexists with AS, clinical and angiographic evaluations of stenosis severity are unreliable in this specific setting. To provide precise risk stratification of coronary lesions, combined near-infrared spectroscopy and intravascular ultrasound (NIRS-IVUS) was developed to integrate morphological and molecular information on plaque composition. However, there is a lack of evidence on the association between NIRS-IVUS derived findings such as maximum 4mm lipid core burden index (maxLCBI<sub>4mm</sub>) and clinical outcomes in AS patients undergoing TAVI. This registry aims to assess feasibility and safety of NIRS-IVUS imaging in the setting of routine pre-TAVI coronary angiography to improve assessment of CAD severity.
METHODS: The registry is designed as a non-randomized, prospective, observational, multicenter cohort registry. Patients referred for TAVI with angiographic evidence of CAD receive NIRS-IVUS imaging and are followed up to 24 months. Enrolled patients are classified as NIRS-IVUS positive and NIRS-IVUS negative, respectively, based on their maxLCBI<sub>4mm</sub> to compare their clinical outcomes. The primary endpoint of the registry is major adverse cardiovascular events over a 24-month follow-up period.
CONCLUSIONS: Identification of patients likely or unlikely to benefit from revascularization prior to TAVI represents an important unmet clinical need. This registry is designed to investigate whether NIRS-IVUS-derived atherosclerotic plaque characteristics can identify patients and lesions at risk for future adverse cardiovascular events after TAVI, in order to refine interventional decision-making in this challenging patient population.

Citation: Seguchi M, et al. Near-infrared spectroscopy-intravascular ultrasound to improve assessment of coronary artery disease severity in patients referred for transcatheter aortic valve implantation (The IMPACTavi registry): Design and rationale. Near-infrared spectroscopy-intravascular ultrasound to improve assessment of coronary artery disease severity in patients referred for transcatheter aortic valve implantation (The IMPACTavi registry): Design and rationale. 2023; 264:114-122. doi: 10.1016/j.ahj.2023.06.004

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37315878/
