PMID: 37328687
Title: Usefulness of routine early œsophagogram after primary repair of œsophageal atresia: a multicenter study.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Advances in surgical and neonatal care have led to improved survival of patients with œsophageal atresia (OA) over time. Morbidity remains significant, with one-third of patients being affected by a postoperative complication. Several aspects of management are not consensual, such as the use of œsophagogram before starting oral feeding.
METHODS: We conducted a multicenter retrospective study, including all children with OA that underwent a primary anastomosis in the first days of life, between 2012 and 2018 in five French centers, to determine the usefulness of postoperative œsophagogram during the 10 days after early primary repair of OA to diagnose the anastomotic leak and congenital œsophageal stenosis.
RESULTS: Among 225 included children, 90 (40%) had a routine œsophagogram and 25 (11%) had an anastomotic leak, clinically diagnosed before the scheduled œsophagogram in 24/25 (96%) children at median postoperative day 4. Ten patients had associated congenital œsophageal stenosis diagnosed on the œsophagogram in only 30% of cases.
CONCLUSION: Early œsophagogram is rarely useful in the diagnosis of an anastomotic leak, which is clinically diagnosed before performing an œsophagogram in the majority of cases. The need for a postoperative œsophagogram should be evaluated on a case-by-case basis.
IMPACT: Early œsophagogram is not helpful in the diagnosis of an anastomotic leak in the majority of cases. An anastomotic leak is most often diagnosed clinically before performing an œsophagogram. Early postoperative œsophagogram could be helpful for the diagnosis of congenital œsophageal stenosis. However, dysphagia occurs later and early diagnosis of congenital œsophageal stenosis has no impact on the management and outcome of asymptomatic children. Indication of postoperative œsophagogram has to be evaluated on a case-by-case basis.

Citation: Pham A, et al. Usefulness of routine early œsophagogram after primary repair of œsophageal atresia: a multicenter study. Usefulness of routine early œsophagogram after primary repair of œsophageal atresia: a multicenter study. 2023; 94:1779-1783. doi: 10.1038/s41390-023-02696-x

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37328687/
