PMID: 37328581
Title: Association of ACE gene polymorphisms with in-stent restenosis by stent type (biomime, supraflex, xience).

Abstract: INTRODUCTION: Angiotensin Converting Enzyme or ACE is an exo-peptidase that causes the conversion of angiotensin I to angiotensin II, vasoconstriction, and aldosterone production. ACE gene polymorphism (I/D) affects enzyme activity and the risk of coronary artery disease or CAD.
AIMS: To examine the role of ACE (I/D) Gene Polymorphisms by Stent Types (Biomime, Supraflex, Xience) the Ace gene allele and genotype frequencies were determined in patients who underwent angioplasty.
MATERIAL & METHODS: Patients with in-stent restenosis (ISR+) (N = 53) and patients as non-ISR group (ISR-) (N = 68) have been enrolled in this study based on follow-up angiography &gt; 1 year after PCI. Frequencies of allele and genotypes of the ACE (I/D) variant were determined using polymerase chain reaction (PCR).
RESULTS: The genotypes and allele frequencies were not significantly different between the studied populations (p-Values > 0.05). However, there was a significant difference between people with a history of Clopidogrel use in the ISR- and ISR + groups observed (p-Values > 0.005).
CONCLUSION: In the present study, there was no statistically significant relationship between ACE (I/D) gene polymorphism and the incidence of restenosis in patients who underwent repeat angiography. The results showed that the number of patients who received Clopidogrel in the ISR + group was significantly less than the ISR- group. This issue can indicate the inhibitory effect of Clopidogrel in the recurrence of stenosis.

Citation: Klashami ZN, et al. Association of ACE gene polymorphisms with in-stent restenosis by stent type (biomime, supraflex, xience). Association of ACE gene polymorphisms with in-stent restenosis by stent type (biomime, supraflex, xience). 2023; 50:6445-6455. doi: 10.1007/s11033-023-08554-7

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37328581/
