PMID: 37323532
Title: Transseptal snaring technique as a bailout from valvuloplasty balloon entrapment within a self-expanding valve: a case report.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Transcatheter aortic valve replacement (TAVR) has become the dominant treatment strategy for severe aortic stenosis in patients with high and intermediate surgical risk. Although complications are significant cause of increasing mortality after TAVR and bailout techniques have been well established, we still encounter a rare complication without widely accepted bailout option. We present a rare complication of valvuloplasty balloon entrapment to a self-expanding valve strut with successful bailout.
CASE SUMMARY: A 71-year-old man complaining of dyspnoea underwent valve-in-valve TAVR for failed surgical aortic valve. However, he developed acute decompensated heart failure due to high residual aortic gradient (peak aortic velocity of 4.0 m/s and mean aortic gradient of 37 mmHg) on the 3rd day after TAVR. Computed tomography demonstrated underexpansion of transcatheter heart valve (THV) within the surgical valve. Therefore, urgent balloon valvuloplasty was performed. The balloon entrapment in the THV stent frame happened during the procedure. Percutaneous removal through transseptal approach using snaring technique was successfully performed.
DISCUSSION: Balloon entrapment within a THV is a rare complication and potentially requires urgent surgical removal. To our knowledge, this is the first report utilizing the snaring technique through transseptal approach for balloon entrapment within a THV. Through the current report, we highlight the utility and effectiveness of the transseptal snaring technique with using a steerable transseptal sheath. Moreover, this case shows the importance of the multiprofessional approach to resolve unexpected complications.

Citation: Sugiyama Y, et al. Transseptal snaring technique as a bailout from valvuloplasty balloon entrapment within a self-expanding valve: a case report. Transseptal snaring technique as a bailout from valvuloplasty balloon entrapment within a self-expanding valve: a case report. 2023; 7:ytad264. doi: 10.1093/ehjcr/ytad264

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37323532/
