PMID: 37320978
Title: Intrathoracic herniation of retrosternal gastric conduit after thoracolaparoscopic esophagectomy causing gastric conduit obstruction: A case report.

Abstract: INTRODUCTION AND IMPORTANCE: Intrathoracic herniation of gastric conduit (IHGC) is a specific complication following esophagectomy with retrosternal gastric pull-up but is not well recognized. Diagnosis and management are challenging due to the lack of literature reviews.
CASE PRESENTATION: We report a 50-year-old man where a reconstructed gastric conduit hernia into the mediastinal pleural cavity after esophagectomy. The patient underwent minimally invasive esophagectomy with cervical anastomosis for middle esophageal carcinoma followed by retrosternal reconstruction; during the tunneling phase, the mediastinal pleura was injured. Subsequently, the patient developed progressive dysphagia postoperatively, and chest CT scans revealed that the dilating gastric tube had moved into the mediastinal pleural cavity.
CLINICAL DISCUSSION: After ruling out the pyloric stenosis by endoscopy, our diagnosis was severe gastric outlet obstruction due to gastric conduit herniation. We performed laparoscopic surgery to mobilize and straighten the redundant gastric conduit. No recurrence occurred throughout the follow-up for one year.
CONCLUSION: IHGC can cause gastric conduit obstruction, which requires reoperation to repair. The laparoscopic approach is an appropriate strategy with the advantages of being less invasive and effective in mobilizing and straightening the gastric conduit. To prevent mediastinal pleural injury - which affects the continuation of the reconstructions, the surgeon should use blunt dissection with direct observation during the route creation.

Citation: Pham VH, et al. Intrathoracic herniation of retrosternal gastric conduit after thoracolaparoscopic esophagectomy causing gastric conduit obstruction: A case report. Intrathoracic herniation of retrosternal gastric conduit after thoracolaparoscopic esophagectomy causing gastric conduit obstruction: A case report. 2023; 108:108392. doi: 10.1016/j.ijscr.2023.108392

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37320978/
