PMID: 37329116
Title: Analysis of Coronary Angiography and Revascularization Rates Made Over 5 Years in Public Institutions in Türkiye.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Coronary angiography is currently the gold standard anatomic imaging method used to diagnose obstructive epicardial coronary artery disease. In patients with critical coronary stenosis, surgical or percutaneous revascularization is provided. Normal coronary artery ratio in coronary angiography is an indirect indicator of patient selection quality. The aim of our study is to evaluate the efficiency of coronary angiography by examining the revascularization rates according to years in patients who underwent coronary angiography.
METHODS: Revascularization rates will be determined by analyzing retrospectively the number of patients who underwent coronary angiography in our country between 2016 and 2021 and were revascularized interventionally or surgically. The number of patients who underwent percutaneous, surgical, and total revascularization were proportioned to the number of coronary angiography, and their percentages were determined.
RESULTS: From 2016 to 2019, there was a continuous increase in the number of coronary angiography. In 2020, the lowest coronary angiography numbers (n = 222.159) of the last 6 years were seen with the effect of the COVID-19 pandemic. In 2021, it was observed that the number of coronary angiography increased again with the relaxation of pandemic measures and the approaching of hospital admissions to old levels. It is seen that revascularization is performed in up to one-third of the patients who underwent coronary angiography.
CONCLUSION: Similar to the rest of the world, revascularization rates as a result of coronary angiography procedures performed in our country are low. With this result, it should not be concluded that coronary angiography is not used effectively; on the contrary, the efficiency of coronary angiography can be increased by more effective use of noninvasive tests.

Citation: Beştemir A, et al. Analysis of Coronary Angiography and Revascularization Rates Made Over 5 Years in Public Institutions in Türkiye. Analysis of Coronary Angiography and Revascularization Rates Made Over 5 Years in Public Institutions in Türkiye. 2023; 27:529-533. doi: 10.14744/AnatolJCardiol.2023.3112

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37329116/
