PMID: 37324356
Title: Additional superdrainage reduces anastomotic fistula and stenosis after gastric tube reconstruction with cervical anastomosis for esophageal cancer.

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: Gastric pull-up is a common procedure to reconstruct the continuity of the upper digestive tract after esophagectomy. However, this technique sometimes causes postoperative anastomotic leakage or stricture, resulting from congestion of the gastric tube. We performed additional microvascular venous anastomoses to solve this problem. The purpose of this study was to compare postoperative anastomotic leaks and strictures in cases with or without additional venous superdrainage after gastric tube reconstruction.
METHODS: A total of 117 consecutive patients with cervical and thoracic esophageal cancer who underwent thoracoscopic esophagectomy with gastric tube reconstruction in the National Nagasaki Medical Center between 2011 and 2021 were analyzed retrospectively. Of these patients, 46 did not undergo additional venous anastomoses (standard group), and 71 who underwent gastric pull-up surgery after November 2014 have added this surgical procedure to their routine (superdrainage group). We compared the frequency of postsurgical leakage and stricture in the 2 groups retrospectively.
RESULTS: Fifteen patients (32.6%) developed postoperative leakage in the standard group and 6 (8.5%) did so in the superdrainage group. Twelve patients (26.1%) showed postoperative anastomotic stricture in the standard group and 7 (9.9%) did so in the superdrainage group. Patients who did not undergo additional venous superdrainage were significantly more likely to develop postsurgical leakage (χ2 test P &lt; .01) and anastomotic stricture (χ2 test P &lt; .05). The mean time taken to perform additional venous anastomoses was 54.2 minutes.
CONCLUSIONS: Our study revealed that performing additional venous anastomosis for as little as 1 hour can significantly reduce the incidence of postoperative leakage and stenosis. This procedure is of merit to perform after total esophagectomy with gastric tube reconstruction.

Citation: Fujioka M, et al. Additional superdrainage reduces anastomotic fistula and stenosis after gastric tube reconstruction with cervical anastomosis for esophageal cancer. Additional superdrainage reduces anastomotic fistula and stenosis after gastric tube reconstruction with cervical anastomosis for esophageal cancer. 2023; 19:142-146. doi: 10.1016/j.xjtc.2023.03.005

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37324356/
