PMID: 37356972
Title: The First Application of Intraumbilical Longitudinal Incision to Pyloromyotomy for Hypertrophic Pyloric Stenosis.

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: There are several approaches to pyloromyotomy for the treatment of hypertrophic pyloric stenosis including open transumbilical pyloromyotomy and laparoscopic pyloromyotomy. Beginning in 2012, we adopted intraumbilical longitudinal incision as a new transumbilical approach for pyloromyotomy. We describe details of the operative technique and results of this new approach.
METHODS: We reviewed records of patients undergoing transumbilical pyloromyotomy from 2005 to 2018. Perioperative outcomes were compared between intraumbilical longitudinal incision and supraumbilical incision, the latter of which is the conventional incision for transumbilical pyloromyotomy.
RESULTS: Twenty-four patients underwent pyloromyotomy with intraumbilical longitudinal incision (intraumbilical group) and 28 patients with supraumbilical incision (supraumbilical group). The median operative time was longer in the intraumbilical group (58.0 vs. 43.5 min, p = 0.002). However, the time to full feeding did not differ significantly between the two groups, and the median postoperative stay was shorter in the intraumbilical group (3 vs. 5.5 days, p = 0.003). There was no difference in the rate of complications (4.2% vs. 7.1%, p = 1.0). Scars after intraumbilical longitudinal incision were localized inside the umbilicus.
CONCLUSION: Pyloromyotomy can be performed through intraumbilical longitudinal incision as safely as supraumbilical incision and intraumbilical longitudinal incision may improve cosmetic results. This approach can be an alternative technique for pyloromyotomy.

Citation: Suzuki K, et al. The First Application of Intraumbilical Longitudinal Incision to Pyloromyotomy for Hypertrophic Pyloric Stenosis. The First Application of Intraumbilical Longitudinal Incision to Pyloromyotomy for Hypertrophic Pyloric Stenosis. 2023; 48:67-71.

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37356972/
