PMID: 37362530
Title: Tracheocutaneous Fistula After Tracheostomy: Spotlight on a Closure Technique With a High Success Rate.

Abstract: Tracheostomy is a commonly performed procedure in patients requiring prolonged mechanical ventilation. While it effectively provides a secure airway, tracheostomy can lead to complications, such as tracheal stenosis, tracheomalacia granulation tissue, pneumonia, aspiration tracheovascular fistula, tracheoesophageal fistula, and tracheocutaneous fistula.  In this systematic review, we aim to identify the most suitable closure method and compare recurrence outcomes between methods for persistent tracheocutaneous fistula (TCF) in all age groups. We conducted a bibliographic search between January 1st, 2011 and March 10th, 2021 in the PubMed, B-on, Scopus, and Web of Science databases, and also performed a manual search to identify relevant articles. Our inclusion criteria were case series or comparative studies of surgery for persistent TCF and the success rate of TCF closure in patients both below and above 18 years of age. After applying the inclusion criteria to the research results, we included nine studies in our analysis. We found that closure by secondary intention is the most effective method for TCF closure, followed by primary and secondary intention combined. The success rate with most of the techniques was high, regardless of the size of the fistula or associated comorbidities, and its simplicity makes it an appealing treatment option in the care of patients with TCF. In conclusion, this systematic review highlights the importance of selecting an appropriate closure method for persistent TCF and provides valuable insights into the success rate of various techniques.

Citation: Aljehani MJ, et al. Tracheocutaneous Fistula After Tracheostomy: Spotlight on a Closure Technique With a High Success Rate. Tracheocutaneous Fistula After Tracheostomy: Spotlight on a Closure Technique With a High Success Rate. 2023; 15:e39462. doi: 10.7759/cureus.39462

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37362530/
