PMID: 37364727
Title: Anlotinib and fruquintinib co-administrated with warfarin increases the risk of bleeding: Studied from pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic perspectives.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Recent studies have reported a higher risk of bleeding among patients that are co-administrated with vascular endothelial growth factor receptor tyrosine kinase inhibitors (VEGFR-TKIs) and anticoagulant, which raises our concern about the possible TKIs-warfarin pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic interaction that could be life-threatening to tumor patients who take warfarin for preventing deep vein thrombosis (DVT).
METHODS: Influences of anlotinib and fruquintinib on the pharmacokinetic and dynamic behavior of warfarin were estimated. Influence on the activity of cytochrome P450 (CYP450) enzymes was detected in vitro through rat liver microsomes. Quantitative analysis of blood concentration in rats was finished by a validated UHPLC-MS/MS method. Furthermore, pharmacodynamic interactions were studied in rats by monitoring prothrombin time (PT) and activated partial thromboplastin time (APTT), while Inferior vena cava (IVC) stenosis-induced DVT model was built to further investigate the antithrombotic effect after co-administration.
RESULTS: Anlotinib inhibited the activity of cyp2c6, cyp3a1/2 and cyp1a2 in rat liver microsomes in a dose-dependent manner, meanwhile enhanced the AUC<sub>0∼t</sub> and AUC<sub>0∼∞</sub> of R-warfarin. However, fruquintinib showed no effects on pharmacokinetics of warfarin. Anlotinib and fruquintinib co-administrated with warfarin was found to exert more significant increase on PT and APTT values than that taking warfarin alone. In IVC stenosis-induced DVT model rats, the co-administration groups significantly reduced the length of thrombus compared with the single warfarin group.
CONCLUSIONS: Anlotinib and fruquintinib enhanced the anticoagulated and antithrombotic effect of warfarin. The anlotinib-induced interaction may due to the inhibition of the metabolism of warfarin. The mechanism of the pharmacodynamic interaction between fruquintinib and warfarin should be further investigated.

Citation: Fang B, et al. Anlotinib and fruquintinib co-administrated with warfarin increases the risk of bleeding: Studied from pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic perspectives. Anlotinib and fruquintinib co-administrated with warfarin increases the risk of bleeding: Studied from pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic perspectives. 2023; 188:106507. doi: 10.1016/j.ejps.2023.106507

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37364727/
