PMID: 37365775
Title: Does primary urethral realignment improve the outcome of pediatric pelvic fracture urethral injury? A randomized controlled trial.

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: To assess the efficacy of primary urethral realignment in the prevention of urethral stenosis and in simplifying delayed urethroplasty after complete pelvic fracture urethral injury in male children.
METHODS: This randomized comparative trial included 40 boys <18 years with complete pelvic fracture urethral injury. The initial management was a primary urethral realignment in 20 boys and suprapubic cystostomy alone in the remaining 20 boys. The boys who underwent primary urethral realignment were assessed regarding the development of urethral stenosis. Boys who needed to be delayed urethroplasty in the two groups were compared regarding urethral defect length, intraoperative details, postoperative outcomes, number of procedures, and time to achieve normal voiding.
RESULTS: Although 14 (70%) patients were able to void after primary urethral realignment, all of them developed urethral stenosis and needed delayed urethroplasty. No statistically significant difference between the two groups was found regarding urethral defect length, intraoperative details, and postoperative outcomes. Patients in the primary urethral realignment group underwent significantly more procedures (p < 0.001) and took a significantly longer time to achieve normal voiding (p = 0.002).
CONCLUSION: Primary urethral realignment is neither able to prevent urethral stenosis nor effective in simplifying later urethroplasty after complete pelvic fracture urethral injury in male children. It exposes the patients to more surgical procedures and a prolonged clinical course.

Citation: Taha TM, et al. Does primary urethral realignment improve the outcome of pediatric pelvic fracture urethral injury? A randomized controlled trial. Does primary urethral realignment improve the outcome of pediatric pelvic fracture urethral injury? A randomized controlled trial. 2023; 30:922-928. doi: 10.1111/iju.15237

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37365775/
