PMID: 37370969
Title: Non-Contrast and Contrast-Enhanced Cardiac Computed Tomography Imaging in the Diagnostic and Prognostic Evaluation of Coronary Artery Disease.

Abstract: In recent decades, cardiac computed tomography (CT) has emerged as a powerful non-invasive tool for risk stratification, as well as the detection and characterization of coronary artery disease (CAD), which remains the main cause of morbidity and mortality in the world. Advances in technology have favored the increasing use of cardiac CT by allowing better performance with lower radiation doses. Coronary artery calcium, as assessed by non-contrast CT, is considered to be the best marker of subclinical atherosclerosis, and its use is recommended for the refinement of risk assessment in low-to-intermediate risk individuals. In addition, coronary CT angiography (CCTA) has become a gate-keeper to invasive coronary angiography (ICA) and revascularization in patients with acute chest pain by allowing the assessment not only of the extent of lumen stenosis, but also of its hemodynamic significance if combined with the measurement of fractional flow reserve or perfusion imaging. Moreover, CCTA provides a unique incremental value over functional testing and ICA by imaging the vessel wall, thus allowing the assessment of plaque burden, composition, and instability features, in addition to perivascular adipose tissue attenuation, which is a marker of vascular inflammation. There exists the potential to identify the non-obstructive lesions at high risk of progression to plaque rupture by combining all of these measures.

Citation: Pugliese L, et al. Non-Contrast and Contrast-Enhanced Cardiac Computed Tomography Imaging in the Diagnostic and Prognostic Evaluation of Coronary Artery Disease. Non-Contrast and Contrast-Enhanced Cardiac Computed Tomography Imaging in the Diagnostic and Prognostic Evaluation of Coronary Artery Disease. 2023; 13:(unknown pages). doi: 10.3390/diagnostics13122074

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37370969/
