PMID: 37379795
Title: The counterbalance of endothelial glycocalyx and high wall shear stress to low-density lipoprotein concentration polarization in mouse ear skin arterioles.

Abstract: BACKGROUND AND AIMS: Atherosclerosis preferentially occurs at regions in arterial branching, curvature, and stenosis, which may be explained by the geometric predilection of low-density lipoprotein (LDL) concentration polarization that has been investigated in major arteries in previous studies. Whether this also happens in arterioles remains unknown.
METHODS: Herein, a radially non-uniform distribution of LDL particles and a heterogeneous endothelial glycocalyx layer in the mouse ear arterioles, as shown by fluorescein isothiocyanate labeled wheat germ agglutinin (WGA-FITC), were successfully observed by a non-invasive two-photon laser-scanning microscopy (TPLSM) technique. The stagnant film theory was applied as the fitting function to evaluate LDL concentration polarization in arterioles.
RESULTS: The concentration polarization rate (CPR, the ratio of the number of polarized cases to that of total cases) in the inner walls of curved and branched arterioles was 22% and 31% higher than the outer counterparts, respectively. Results from the binary logistic regression and multiple linear regression analysis showed that endothelial glycocalyx thickness increases CPR and the thickness of the concentration polarization layer (CPL). Flow field computation indicates no obvious disturbances or vortex in modeled arterioles with different geometries and the mean wall shear stress is about 7.7-9.0 Pa.
CONCLUSIONS: These findings suggest a geometric predilection of LDL concentration polarization in arterioles for the first time, and the existence of an endothelial glycocalyx, acting together with a relatively high wall shear stress in arterioles, may explain to some extent why atherosclerosis rarely occurs in these regions.

Citation: Deng Z, et al. The counterbalance of endothelial glycocalyx and high wall shear stress to low-density lipoprotein concentration polarization in mouse ear skin arterioles. The counterbalance of endothelial glycocalyx and high wall shear stress to low-density lipoprotein concentration polarization in mouse ear skin arterioles. 2023; 377:24-33. doi: 10.1016/j.atherosclerosis.2023.06.011

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37379795/
