PMID: 37378251
Title: An Investigation of the Relationship Between Carotid Artery Stenosis and White Matter Hyperintensities.

Abstract: Introduction White matter hyperintensities (WMHs) are frequently detected on magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) with age. Although the etiology of WMH has not been fully explained, it was reported to be associated with internal carotid artery (ICA) stenosis as well as small vessel diseases. The number and volume of these lesions might increase in cases of internal carotid artery (ICA) stenosis. The present study aimed to calculate the localization and volumes of white matter lesions in the VolBrain Program and investigate the relationship between age and sex in patients with symptomatic and asymptomatic internal carotid artery stenosis. Methods MRI scans of patients with carotid stenosis with T1-weighted and fluid-attenuated inversion recovery (FLAIR) sequences were performed retrospectively for the present study, which had a retrospective design. The patients were divided into two groups (<70% and ≥70%) because endovascular intervention was considered in patients with asymptomatic stenosis over 70%. Digital subtraction angiography was used to detect carotid artery stenosis. They were also divided into four groups. According to laterality and degree of stenosis, ICA stenosis was separated as those with <70% stenosis on both sides (group 1), right side ICA <70%, left side ≥70% stenosis (group 2), right side ICA ≥70%, left side <70% stenosis (group 3), and ≥70% stenosis on both sides (group 4). A total of 102 patient images were selected that met the inclusion criteria. The measurements of white matter lesion volumes were made using the LesionBrain application in the VolBrain Program. Results The MRI of 82 patients (mean age: 65.55 ± 9.28 years), 28 females and 54 males, were used in the present study. According to LesionBrain Analysis, the total WMH volume was seen in the first and third groups at most. When analyzed in regional terms, stenosis was mostly detected in the first and third groups in the periventricular region. WMH volume was less in all areas in group 4. When examined according to the number of lesions, the most lesions were detected in the third group in the juxtacortical region. When the difference between the groups was examined, a significant difference was detected only in the volume change in the deep white region (p=0.011). No significant differences were found between WMH volumes and age and gender (p>0.05). Conclusion Stenosis of the external internal carotid artery might cause hypoperfusion and silent embolization in the brain. As a result, as well as pathological conditions in cortical areas, ischemic areas in the white matter might also cause cognitive disorders.

Citation: Yasin S and Tasdemir R. An Investigation of the Relationship Between Carotid Artery Stenosis and White Matter Hyperintensities. An Investigation of the Relationship Between Carotid Artery Stenosis and White Matter Hyperintensities. 2023; 15:e39468. doi: 10.7759/cureus.39468

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37378251/
