PMID: 37378157
Title: A Clinical Audit on the Indications for Intervention With Transcatheter Aortic Valve Implantation Over Surgical Aortic Valve Replacement in Aortic Stenosis Patients in Mohammed Bin Khalifa Bin Salman Al Khalifa Specialist Cardiac Centre.

Abstract: Introduction Transcatheter aortic valve implantation (TAVI) is a novel treatment strategy used to treat patients with symptomatic aortic stenosis. It utilizes a percutaneous approach and is preferred over surgical aortic valve replacement (SAVR) in patients at high surgical risk. The aim of this study was to audit the indications of the intervention with TAVI over SAVR in Bahrain Defence Force Hospital, Mohammed Bin Khalifa Bin Sulman AlKhalifa Cardiac Centre (BDF-MKCC), as well as note the outcomes of patients who underwent TAVI. Methods The indications for allocating aortic stenosis patients to TAVI over SAVR in BDF-MKCC were studied with regard to the European Society of Cardiology and the European Association for Cardio-Thoracic Surgery (ESC/EACTS) guidelines published in 2017. Data from 82 patients, which accounts for all patients who underwent TAVI, were collected retrospectively from electronic medical records and the percentage of compliance was calculated and analyzed. Results The compliance percentages of the 23 parameters for the intervention with TAVI that have been set by the ESC/EACTS are calculated, where BDF-MKCC were fully adherent to 12 out of the 23 standards. Moreover, the total number of patients that are compliant with all standards is 13 out of 82 (15.85%) compliant patients. Conclusion The centre showed non-compliance to many of the published standards. Hence, we created a checklist to ensure that the international guidelines are followed. We are looking forward to re-audit this aspect in the near future, to make certain that changes were done. We would also like to do a comparative study to compare the patients' outcomes before and after implementing the 2017 ESC/EACTS guidelines. Furthermore, we call for further studies to be conducted in this field and that is to evaluate the standards themselves as well as the safety of TAVI in those who are not eligible for it according to the ESC/EACTS.

Citation: Al-Hammadi M, et al. A Clinical Audit on the Indications for Intervention With Transcatheter Aortic Valve Implantation Over Surgical Aortic Valve Replacement in Aortic Stenosis Patients in Mohammed Bin Khalifa Bin Salman Al Khalifa Specialist Cardiac Centre. A Clinical Audit on the Indications for Intervention With Transcatheter Aortic Valve Implantation Over Surgical Aortic Valve Replacement in Aortic Stenosis Patients in Mohammed Bin Khalifa Bin Salman Al Khalifa Specialist Cardiac Centre. 2023; 15:e39249. doi: 10.7759/cureus.39249

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37378157/
