PMID: 37381824
Title: The prognostic significance of early troponin levels in patients undergoing aortic ridge surgery.

Abstract: Subaortic stenosis is a CHD that can lead to left ventricular hypertrophy, heart failure, and aortic valve damage if left untreated. The gold standard treatment for subaortic stenosis is septal myectomy. However, there is no clear consensus on the surgical margins required for adequate muscle resection. In this retrospective study, we reviewed the records of 83 patients who underwent subaortic stenosis surgery between 2012 and 2020 to investigate the effect of early troponin levels on prognosis. We excluded patients with additional cardiac pathologies, hypertrophic obstructive cardiomyopathy, and valvular aortic stenosis.Troponin levels were recorded in the early post-operative period, and patients were monitored for complications such as ventricular arrhythmia, left ventricular systolic dysfunction, infective endocarditis, and pacemaker implantation. The troponin levels were significantly higher in the patients who had septal myectomy. The degree of myectomy affected the risk of complications in the early post-operative period and recurrence in the later period. However, when the gradient was substantially or completely removed by myectomy, patients experienced significant symptom improvement in the early post-operative period, and their late survival was equivalent to that of healthy individuals of the same age.Our findings suggest that monitoring troponin levels in patients undergoing septal myectomy may be beneficial in predicting the risk of complications. However, further studies are needed to establish the optimal surgical technique and extent of muscle resection required for subaortic stenosis treatment. Our study adds to the existing knowledge of the benefits and risks associated with septal myectomy as a treatment option for subaortic stenosis.

Citation: Kara KA, et al. The prognostic significance of early troponin levels in patients undergoing aortic ridge surgery. The prognostic significance of early troponin levels in patients undergoing aortic ridge surgery. 2024; 34:301-307. doi: 10.1017/S1047951123001737

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37381824/
