PMID: 37386804
Title: Hemodynamic outcomes of stenting for vertebrobasilar insufficiency in patients with a low flow state.

Abstract: INTRODUCTION: The Vertebrobasilar Flow Evaluation and Risk of Transient Ischemic Attack and Stroke (VERiTAS) study determined patients with low flow in their vertebrobasilar (VB) system are at increased risk of recurrent stroke. Endovascular interventions such as angioplasty and stenting are reserved for patients with refractory symptoms; however, few series to date have demonstrated either hemodynamic or clinical outcomes in this high-risk patient group. We present our combined institutional series of patients with symptomatic VB atherosclerotic disease and low-flow state who underwent angioplasty and stenting.
METHODS: Retrospective chart review of patients undergoing angioplasty and stenting for symptomatic VB atherosclerotic disease at two institutions was performed. Clinical and radiographical outcomes were collected including flow rates using quantitative MRA (QMRA) pre- and post-stenting.
RESULTS: Seventeen patients underwent angioplasty and stenting for symptomatic VB atherosclerotic disease and met VERiTAS low-flow state criteria. There were four cases (23.5%) of periprocedural stroke, two of which were minor and transient. The stent was placed intracranially in 82.4% of patients. Basilar and bilateral posterior cerebral artery (PCA) flows significantly improved post-stenting (p &lt; 0.05) and normalized based upon VERiTAS criteria in all patients. Fourteen patients had delayed QMRA at mean follow-up 20 months demonstrating appropriate patency and flow post-stenting. Two patients (10%) had recurrent stroke, one from medication nonadherence and in-stent thrombosis, and the other from a procedural dissection that subsequently became symptomatic.
CONCLUSIONS: Our series demonstrates angioplasty and stenting significantly improve intracranial flow over long-term. Angioplasty and stenting may improve the natural history of low-flow VB atherosclerotic disease.

Citation: White TG, et al. Hemodynamic outcomes of stenting for vertebrobasilar insufficiency in patients with a low flow state. Hemodynamic outcomes of stenting for vertebrobasilar insufficiency in patients with a low flow state. 2023; (unknown volume):15910199231185801. doi: 10.1177/15910199231185801

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37386804/
