PMID: 37388526
Title: Development of a gastrocutaneous fistula from a marginal ulcer after repair of duodenal injury with pyloric exclusion.

Abstract: INTRODUCTION: Duodenal trauma is rare but can be associated with significant morbidity and mortality (Pandey et al., 2011). Adjunct procedures, such as pyloric exclusion, can be performed to assist in surgical repair of these injuries. However, pyloric exclusion can lead to severe long-term complications associated with significant morbidity that can be difficult to repair.
CASE: A 35-year-old man with a history of duodenal trauma from a gunshot wound (GSW) status post pyloric exclusion and Roux-en-Y gastrojejunostomy presented to the Emergency Department (ED) with complaints of abdominal pain and leakage of food particles and fluid from an open wound around his surgical scar. Computed tomography (CT) scan on admission showed a tract extending from the gastrojejunostomy anastomosis to the skin representing a fistula. Esophago-gastro-duodenoscopy (EGD) reconfirmed a large marginal ulcer that had fistulized to the skin. After nutritional repletion, the patient was taken to the operating room (OR) for takedown of the enterocutaneous fistula and Roux-en-Y gastrojejunostomy, closure of gastrostomy and enterotomy, pyloroplasty and feeding jejunostomy tube placement. The patient was re-admitted after discharge with abdominal pain, vomiting and early satiety. EGD showed gastric outlet obstruction and severe pyloric stenosis which was managed with endoscopic balloon dilation.
CONCLUSION: This case represents the severe and potentially life-threatening complications that may occur after pyloric exclusion with Roux-en-Y gastrojejunostomy. Gastrojejunostomies are prone to marginal ulceration which can perforate if not adequately treated. Free perforations cause peritonitis, but if the perforation is contained it can erode through the abdominal wall creating the rare complication of a gastrocutaneous fistula. Even after restoration of normal anatomy with a pyloroplasty, patients may suffer additional complications such as pyloric stenosis requiring continued intervention.

Citation: Lin J, et al. Development of a gastrocutaneous fistula from a marginal ulcer after repair of duodenal injury with pyloric exclusion. Development of a gastrocutaneous fistula from a marginal ulcer after repair of duodenal injury with pyloric exclusion. 2023; 47:100877. doi: 10.1016/j.tcr.2023.100877

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37388526/
