PMID: 37384399
Title: Expression of CAD and SOX2 in Postoperative Intestinal Tissues of Children with Hirschsprung's Disease and Their Interrelationship.

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: To investigate the expression and significance of intestinal Cathepsin D (CAD) and sex-determining region Y-frame protein 2 (SOX2) in children with Hirschsprung's disease (HD) after surgery.
METHODS: Immunohistochemistry and Western blot techniques were employed to examine the expression of CAD and SOX2 in colonic tissues obtained from 56 children with HD (HD group) and 23 colonic tissues obtained from fistulas for intestinal obstruction or perforation (control group). Pearson linear correlation analysis was conducted to analyze the relationship between CAD and SOX2 expression, the diameter of the intermuscular plexus, and the number of ganglion cells in the diseased intestinal segment.
RESULTS: The positive expression rates of CAD protein and SOX2 protein in the intestinal tissues of children with HD were lower than those in the control group (P < .05). Furthermore, the positive expression rates of CAD protein and SOX2 protein in the narrow intestinal tissue of HD children were lower than those in the transitional colon tissue (P < .05). The diameter of the intramuscular plexus and the number of ganglion cells in the intestinal tissue of the stenosis and transitional segments in HD children were lower than those in the control group (P < .05). There was a significant positive correlation between the diameter of the intermuscular plexus and the number of ganglion cells in the intestinal tissue of HD children and the expression intensity of CAD protein and SOX2 protein (P < .05).
CONCLUSIONS: The down-regulated expression intensity of CAD protein and SOX2 protein in the diseased colon of children with HD may be associated with a decrease in the diameter of the intermuscular plexus and the number of ganglion cells.

Citation: Zhao Z and Xi H. Expression of CAD and SOX2 in Postoperative Intestinal Tissues of Children with Hirschsprung's Disease and Their Interrelationship. Expression of CAD and SOX2 in Postoperative Intestinal Tissues of Children with Hirschsprung's Disease and Their Interrelationship. 2023; 29:364-369.

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37384399/
