PMID: 37388584
Title: Factors Associated With the Rate of Recovery After Cervical Decompression Surgery for Degenerative Cervical Myelopathy: A Retrospective Analysis.

Abstract: Introduction Degenerative cervical myelopathy (DCM) is a debilitating spinal condition with a wide variety of symptoms that can differ greatly among individuals. Common symptoms include numbness, extremity weakness, loss of balance, and gait instability. Decompression surgeries are commonly indicated for the treatment of DCM with varying outcomes reported in the literature. However, there is little evidence on the rate of recovery defined as the time until improvement in symptoms such as numbness, balance, and strength after surgery for DCM. The purpose of this study was to determine the rate of neurological recovery after surgery for DCM and its subsequent association with various risk factors to guide clinicians while providing care and improve patient education. Methods This study was a retrospective case series (n=180 patients) examining patients who underwent cervical decompression surgery for DCM. All patients had a clinical presentation of DCM, were diagnosed with DCM, had radiographic degenerative changes and cervical stenosis, and received surgical management from 2010 to 2020 in a tertiary hospital system. Data recorded included age, smoking status, duration of pre-operative symptoms, preoperative and postoperative pain, and postoperative rate of recovery (days until improvement) in numbness, upper extremity strength, and balance. Results Patients (n=180) had an average age of 65.7 years (SD ±9.2 years, range 43-93 years). The mean ± standard deviation for the rate of recovery (days until improvement) in numbness, upper extremity strength, and balance was 84.5 ± 94.4 days, 50.6 ± 42.8 days, and 60.4 ± 69.9 days, respectively. There was only a marginally significant association between the rate of recovery for numbness after surgery and patient age (p=0.053). The average rate of recovery in numbness for patients older than 60 years was significantly longer than those younger than 60 years (99.3 versus 60.2 days). Preoperative smoking status was significantly associated with persistent moderate to severe pain (p=0.032) within the six-month postoperative period. No significant correlations were seen between the rate of recovery for balance or strength and patient age or preoperative duration of symptoms. Conclusion There was great variability in the rate of recovery for postoperative symptoms after surgery for DCM. A longer time for improvement in postoperative numbness was only marginally correlated with the increased patient age after surgery for DCM. There was no correlation found between strength or balance recovery times and patient age. Smoking status was associated with moderate to severe postoperative pain after surgery for DCM. Furthermore, the duration of preoperative symptoms was not associated with improvement in postoperative symptoms after surgery for DCM. More research is needed to determine factors impacting the rate of recovery after surgery for DCM.

Citation: Baumann AN, et al. Factors Associated With the Rate of Recovery After Cervical Decompression Surgery for Degenerative Cervical Myelopathy: A Retrospective Analysis. Factors Associated With the Rate of Recovery After Cervical Decompression Surgery for Degenerative Cervical Myelopathy: A Retrospective Analysis. 2023; 15:e39654. doi: 10.7759/cureus.39654

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37388584/
