PMID: 37394366
Title: Severe post-pyloric injury after button battery ingestion: Systematic literature review and case report.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: The health and safety hazards related to button batteries (BB) have been extensively studied, highlighting that the presence of a button battery in the esophagus is a life-threatening emergency. However, complications related to bowel BB are poorly evaluated and not well known. The objective of this review of the literature was to describe severe cases of BB that have passed the pylorus.
CASE REPORT: This case, from the PilBouTox cohort, is the first report of small-bowel occlusion following ingestion of an LR44 BB (diameter: 11.4 mm) by a 7-month-old infant with a history of intestinal resections. In this case, the BB was ingested without a witness. The initial presentation mimicked acute gastroenteritis evolving into hypovolemic shock. An X-ray revealed a foreign body stuck in the small bowel causing an intestinal occlusion and local necrosis without perforation. The patient's history of intestinal stenosis and intestinal surgery were the contributing factor of impaction.
SYSTEMATIC LITERATURE REVIEW: The review was performed using the Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic Reviews and Meta-Analysis (PRISMA) statement. The research was conducted on September 12, 2022 through five database and the U.S. Poison Control Center website. An additional 12 severe cases of intestinal or colonic injury after ingestion of a single BB were identified. Of these, 11 were related to small BBs (< 15 mm) that impacted Meckel's diverticulum and one was related to postoperative stenosis.
CONCLUSION: In view of the findings, the indications for digestive endoscopy for extraction of a BB in the stomach should include a history of intestinal stenosis or intestinal surgery so as to avoid delayed intestinal perforation or occlusion and prolonged hospitalization.

Citation: Vaucel JA, et al. Severe post-pyloric injury after button battery ingestion: Systematic literature review and case report. Severe post-pyloric injury after button battery ingestion: Systematic literature review and case report. 2023; 30:501-504. doi: 10.1016/j.arcped.2023.05.007

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37394366/
