PMID: 37396439
Title: Inferior Mesenteric Artery Snorkel for Endovascular Treatment of a Large Degenerating Saccular Aneurysm.

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: Preservation of the inferior mesenteric artery (IMA) during endovascular aortic aneurysm repair (EVAR) is necessary for prevention of mesenteric ischaemia in the case of chronically occluded coeliac and superior mesenteric arteries (SMA). This case report presents an approach in a complex patient.
METHODS: A 74 year old man with hepatitis C cirrhosis and recent non-ST elevation myocardial infarction presented with an infrarenal degenerating saccular aneurysm (58 mm), chronically occluded SMA and coeliac artery, and 9 mm IMA with high grade ostial stenosis. He also had concomitant atherosclerosis of the aorta with a narrow distal aortic lumen of 14 mm, which tapered to 11 mm at the aortic bifurcation. Endovascular attempts to cross long segment occlusions of the SMA and coeliac artery were unsuccessful. Thus, EVAR was performed using the unibody AFX2 endograft and chimney revascularisation of the IMA using a VBX stent graft. One year follow up demonstrated regression of the aneurysm sac to 53 mm with patent IMA graft and no endoleak.
CONCLUSION: Few reports have described techniques for endovascular preservation of the IMA, which is a necessary consideration in the context of coeliac and SMA occlusion. Because open surgery was not a good option for this patient, available endovascular options had to be weighed up. An added challenge was the exceptionally narrow aortic lumen in the context of aortic and iliac atherosclerotic disease. It was decided that the anatomy was prohibitive for a fenestrated design and extensive calcification was too limiting for gate cannulation of a modular graft. Thus a bifurcated unibody aortic endograft with chimney stent grafting of the IMA was successfully used as a definitive solution.

Citation: Chan SM, et al. Inferior Mesenteric Artery Snorkel for Endovascular Treatment of a Large Degenerating Saccular Aneurysm. Inferior Mesenteric Artery Snorkel for Endovascular Treatment of a Large Degenerating Saccular Aneurysm. 2023; 59:36-40. doi: 10.1016/j.ejvsvf.2023.05.008

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37396439/
