PMID: 37395422
Title: [Surgical Treatment of Degenerative Lumbar Stenosis and Spondylolisthesis: Clinical Practice Guideline].

Abstract: PURPOSE OF THE STUDY This article presents the evidence and the rationale for the recommendations for surgical treatment of degenerative lumbar stenosis (DLS) and spondylolisthesis that were recently developed as a part of the Czech Clinical Practice Guideline (CPG) "The Surgical Treatment of the Degenerative Diseases of the Spine". MATERIAL AND METHODS The Guideline was drawn up in line with the Czech National Methodology of the CPG Development, which is based on the Grading of Recommendations, Assessment, Development and Evaluation (GRADE) approach. We used an innovative GRADE-adolopment method that combines adoption and adaptation of the existing guidelines with de novo development of recommendations. In this paper, we present three adapted recommendations on DLS and a recommendation on spondylolisthesis developed de novo by the Czech team. RESULTS Open surgical decompression in DLS patients has been evaluated in three randomized controlled trials (RCTs). A recommendation in favour of decompression was made based on a statistically significant and clinically evident improvement in the Oswestry Disability Index (ODI) and leg pain. Decompression may be recommended for patients with symptoms of DLS in the event of correlation of significant physical limitation and the finding obtained via imaging. The authors of a systematic review of observational studies and one RCT conclude that fusion has a negligible role in the case of a simple DLS. Thus, spondylodesis should only be chosen as an adjunct to decompression in selected DLS patients. Two RCTs compared supervised rehabilitation with home or no exercise, showing no statistically significant difference between the procedures. The guideline group considers the post-surgery physical activity beneficial and suggests supervised rehabilitation in patients who have undergone surgery for DLS for the beneficial effects of exercise in the absence of known adverse effects. Four RCTs were found comparing simple decompression and decompression with fusion in patients with degenerative lumbar spondylolisthesis. None of the outcomes showed clinically significant improvement or deterioration in favour of either intervention. The guideline group concluded that for stable spondylolisthesis the results of both methods are comparable and, when other parameters are considered (balance of benefits and risks, or costs), point in favour of simple decompression. Due to the lack of scientific evidence, no recommendation has been formulated regarding unstable spondylolisthesis. The certainty of the evidence was rated as low for all recommendations. DISCUSSION Despite the unclear definition of stable/unstable slip, the inclusion of apparently unstable cases of DS in stable studies limits the conclusions of the studies. Based on the available literature, however, it can be summarized that in simple degenerative lumbar stenosis and static spondylolisthesis, fusion of the given segment is not justified. However, its use in the case of unstable (dynamic) vertebral slip is undisputable for the time being. CONCLUSIONS The guideline development group suggests decompression in patients with DLS in whom previous conservative treatment did not lead to improvement, spondylodesis only in selected patients, and post-surgical supervised rehabilitation. In patients with degenerative lumbar stenosis and spondylolisthesis with no signs of instability, the guideline development group suggests simple decompression (without fusion). Key words: degenerative lumbar stenosis, degenerative spondylolisthesis, spinal fusion, Clinical Practice Guideline, GRADE, adolopment.

Citation: Kaiser R, et al. [Surgical Treatment of Degenerative Lumbar Stenosis and Spondylolisthesis: Clinical Practice Guideline]. [Surgical Treatment of Degenerative Lumbar Stenosis and Spondylolisthesis: Clinical Practice Guideline]. 2023; 90:157-167.

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37395422/
