PMID: 37406780
Title: Angiographic classification of pulmonary vascular lesion in Takayasu arteritis: A cohort study.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Percutaneous transluminal pulmonary angioplasty (PTPA) can significantly improve the haemodynamics and prognosis of patients with Takayasu arteritis and pulmonary artery involvement. However, the choice of PTPA is mainly based on clinical experience. We aim to classify pulmonary artery lesions in Takayasu arteritis according to pulmonary angiogram and evaluate the PTPA success rate and technical difficulty of different types of lesions.
METHODS: We enrolled consecutive patients diagnosed with Takayasu arteritis and pulmonary artery involvement. Patients who underwent pulmonary angiography were included.
RESULTS: A total of 365 pulmonary vascular lesions were observed in 63 patients based on pulmonary angiography. According to morphology, distal blood flow of the lesions and PTPA treatment success rate, we classified the pulmonary arterial lesions into 4 groups: type A, stenosis; type B, dilation; type C, subtotal occlusion; type D, total occlusion. Total occlusion was further subclassified as D1, cone-shape occlusion; D2, pocket-like occlusion; and D3, ostium occlusion. The success rate of PTPA was higher in stenosis and subtotal occlusion, whereas ostium occlusion had the lowest success rate. The 2-year survival rate was 97.3% in patients who underwent PTPA.
CONCLUSIONS: The morphology of pulmonary lesions in Takayasu arteritis had a significant impact on the PTPA success rate. The failure rate and technical difficulty of PTPA increased in the following order: stenosis, dilation, subtotal occlusion, and total occlusion. Our classification scheme could guide the performance of PTPA for pulmonary artery lesions in Takayasu arteritis.

Citation: Yang T, et al. Angiographic classification of pulmonary vascular lesion in Takayasu arteritis: A cohort study. Angiographic classification of pulmonary vascular lesion in Takayasu arteritis: A cohort study. 2023; 217:107337. doi: 10.1016/j.rmed.2023.107337

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37406780/
