PMID: 37410913
Title: Idiopathic Intracranial Venous Hypertension: Toward a Better Understanding of Venous Stenosis and the Role of Stenting in Idiopathic Intracranial Hypertension.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Venous sinus stenosis, typically at the junction of the transverse and sigmoid sinus, is increasingly recognized as a contributor to the pathophysiology of idiopathic intracranial hypertension (IIH), whether it be the intrinsic type that does not reverse with normalization of intracranial pressure or the extrinsic type, which does. Efforts to treat the stenosis and reduce the associated transstenotic gradient through placement of a stent at the site of stenosis have been studied over the past 2 decades, primarily through retrospective studies, with variable emphasis on formal visual testing and direct assessment of poststent opening pressure. Most studies have presented evidence for utilization of stenting as an alternative to cerebrospinal fluid shunting or optic nerve sheath fenestration in patients with IIH who harbor the stenosis and are refractory to or intolerant of intracranial pressure-lowering medications, but an assessment of the current data is needed to better understand the role of stenting for this patient population.
EVIDENCE ACQUISITION: A search in PubMed was made for "IIH," "papilledema," and "venous stenting." Data pre and post stenting, including symptoms attributable to IIH, intracranial pressure, papilledema, retinal nerve fiber layer thickening on optical coherence tomography, and visual field assessment (mean deviation), were collected. Need for retreatment and complications were assessed among all studies. Studies using stenting for special circumstances, such as cerebrospinal leaks or for stenosis along anomalous vessels, were reviewed.
RESULTS: In total, 49 studies (45 retrospective and 4 prospective) and 18 case reports (with 3 or less patients) were found and included in the analysis, for a total of 1,626 patients. In 250 patients in whom poststent intracranial pressure was measured, the mean value was 19.7 cm H 2 O, reduced from a mean of 33 cm H 2 O. Transient visual obscurations resolved in 79.6% of 201 patients who complained of it, pulsatile tinnitus resolved in 84.7% of 515, diplopia resolved in 93% of 86 patients, and nonspecific visual symptoms such as "blurry vision" improved in 76.2% of 537 patients. Headaches resolved in 36% and improved in a further 40.7% of 1,105 patients in whom they were documented before stenting. Of 1,116 with papilledema, 40.8% demonstrated resolution and 38.2% improvement. The mean retinal nerve fiber layer thickness improved from 170.2 µm to 89.2 µm among 402 eyes in which optical coherence tomography was used to measure it. Among 135 eyes in which formal visual fields were performed pre and post stenting, the prestent average mean deviation of -7.35 dB improved to -4.72 dB after stenting. Complications associated with stenting included in-stent stenosis or thrombosis, subdural hematoma, intracerebral hematoma, cerebral edema, stent migration, and death. A recurrence of symptoms requiring a follow-up surgical intervention occurred in 9%.
CONCLUSIONS: A growing body of evidence supports the use of venous sinus stenting as a viable option for medically refractory IIH, especially when papilledema threatens visual function. Complication and failure rates seem to be similar to alternative surgical approaches, although serious neurological sequalae can rarely occur. Emerging studies evaluating stent type, including novel stents designed for use in the venous system, may help improve ease of the procedure and long-term success rates. Prospective head-to-head studies are needed to better understand the performance of stenting compared with other interventions.

Citation: Dinkin MJ and Patsalides A. Idiopathic Intracranial Venous Hypertension: Toward a Better Understanding of Venous Stenosis and the Role of Stenting in Idiopathic Intracranial Hypertension. Idiopathic Intracranial Venous Hypertension: Toward a Better Understanding of Venous Stenosis and the Role of Stenting in Idiopathic Intracranial Hypertension. 2023; 43:451-463. doi: 10.1097/WNO.0000000000001898

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37410913/
