PMID: 37414524
Title: Updated definition of pulmonary hypertension and outcome after transcatheter aortic valve implantation.

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: The European Society of Cardiology guidelines have recently defined new cut-offs for pulmonary hypertension (PH) and pulmonary vasculature resistance (PVR; median pulmonary artery pressure (mPAP) >20 instead of 25 mm Hg and PVR >2 instead of 3 Wood unit). The prognostic value of this updated classification after transcatheter aortic valve implantation (TAVI) is unknown.
METHODS: 579 consecutive patients treated by TAVI with preprocedural right heart catheterisation evaluation were included. Patients were grouped as: (1) no PH, (2) isolated precapillary/combined (I-PreC/Co) PH and (3) isolated postcapillary PH (I-PoC). All-cause death, cardiovascular death and hospitalisations for heart failure (HF) were evaluated at follow-up. We also analysed the prognostic role of residual postprocedural PH.
RESULTS: Out of 579 patients, 299 (52%) had PH according to the new criteria compared with 185 (32%) according to the previous ones. Overall median age was 82 years, while 55.3% patients were male. Patients with PH were more frequently diagnosed with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease and atrial fibrillation and were characterised by higher surgical risk as compared with patients without PH.At a median follow-up of 2.9 years, the presence of PH according to previous definition was associated with worse survival (p<0.001) and HF hospitalisation (p=0.002) rates, irrespective of PVR values. With newer cut-offs, PH was associated with worse outcomes only in patients with increased PVR, while no differences were found between patients with PH and normal PVR values and those without PH. Postprocedural mPAP normalisation was observed in 45% of the cases, but it was associated with improved long-term survival only in the I-PoC PH group.
CONCLUSIONS: New ESC PH cut-offs increased the number of PH diagnoses. The presence of PH, particularly in the setting of increased PVR, identify patients at higher risk for postprocedural mortality and rehospitalisation. Normalisation of PH was associated with better survival only in I-PoC group.

Citation: Cardaioli F, et al. Updated definition of pulmonary hypertension and outcome after transcatheter aortic valve implantation. Updated definition of pulmonary hypertension and outcome after transcatheter aortic valve implantation. 2023; 110:27-34. doi: 10.1136/heartjnl-2023-322881

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37414524/
