PMID: 37413892
Title: Repurposing of rilpivirine for preventing platelet β3 integrin-dependent thrombosis by targeting c-Src active autophosphorylation.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: HIV-infected individuals are known to be at higher risk for thrombotic cardiovascular disease (CVD), which may also be differentially affected by components of anti-HIV drugs. To identify the effects of a series of FDA-approved anti-HIV drugs on platelet aggregation in humans, focusing on the novel pharmacological effects of rilpivirine (RPV), a reverse transcriptase inhibitor, on platelet function both in vitro and in vivo and the mechanisms involved.
METHODS AND RESULTS: In vitro studies showed that RPV was the only anti-HIV reagent that consistently and efficiently inhibited aggregation elicited by different agonists, exocytosis, morphological extension on fibrinogen, and clot retraction. Treatment of mice with RPV significantly prevented thrombus formation in FeCl<sub>3</sub>-injured mesenteric vessels, postcava with stenosis surgery, and ADP -induced pulmonary embolism models without defects in platelet viability, tail bleeding, and coagulation activities. RPV also improved cardiac performance in mice with post-ischemic reperfusion. A mechanistic study revealed that RPV preferentially attenuated fibrinogen-stimulated Tyr773 phosphorylation of β3-integrin by inhibiting Tyr419 autophosphorylation of c-Src. Molecular docking and surface plasmon resonance analyses showed that RPV can bind directly to c-Src. Further mutational analysis showed that the Phe427 residue of c-Src is critical for RPV interaction, suggesting a novel interaction site for targeting c-Src to block β3-integrin outside-in signaling.
CONCLUSION: These results demonstrated that RPV was able to prevent the progression of thrombotic CVDs by interrupting β3-integrin-mediated outside-in signaling via inhibiting c-Src activation without hemorrhagic side effects, highlighting RPV as a promising reagent for the prevention and therapy of thrombotic CVDs.

Citation: Liu K, et al. Repurposing of rilpivirine for preventing platelet β3 integrin-dependent thrombosis by targeting c-Src active autophosphorylation. Repurposing of rilpivirine for preventing platelet β3 integrin-dependent thrombosis by targeting c-Src active autophosphorylation. 2023; 229:53-68. doi: 10.1016/j.thromres.2023.06.031

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37413892/
