PMID: 37428626
Title: Impact of transcatheter aortic valve implantation on circulating von Willebrand factor in patients with severe aortic stenosis.

Abstract: INTRODUCTION: Severe aortic stenosis (AS) can lead to degradation of high molecular weight (HMW) von Willebrand factor (VWF) which can result in haemostatic abnormalities. While studies have explored changes in VWF profiles before and after surgical aortic valve replacement (SAVR), the longer-term changes in VWF profiles pre- and post-transcatheter aortic valve implantation (TAVI) are less understood.
AIM: Our primary objective was to identify differences in VWF multimer profiles and VWF function pre-TAVI and 1-month post-TAVI. Our secondary objective was to correlate VWF markers with measures of AS severity.
METHODS: Adult patients with severe AS referred for TAVI at our institution were prospectively enrolled in this cohort study. Blood samples were collected for plasma analysis at three time points for all patients: 1 day pre-TAVI, 3 days post-TAVI, and 1-month post-TAVI. VWF antigen, activity, propeptide, collagen binding, multimers, and factor VIII coagulant activity were determined at each time point. Correlations between VWF parameters and severity of AS were assessed.
RESULTS: Twenty participants (15 males, five females) with severe AS were recruited for the study. There was a significant increase in HMW VWF between pre-procedure and 1-month post-TAVI (p < .05). There was a transient increase in VWF antigen levels and activity at 3-days post TAVI that decreased to pre-TAVI levels at 1-month. There were no statistically significant correlations between VWF markers and AS severity.
CONCLUSIONS: This is the first study to elucidate longer-term (>1 week) improvements in HMW VWF after a TAVI procedure in severe AS patients.

Citation: Varghese SS, et al. Impact of transcatheter aortic valve implantation on circulating von Willebrand factor in patients with severe aortic stenosis. Impact of transcatheter aortic valve implantation on circulating von Willebrand factor in patients with severe aortic stenosis. 2023; 29:1306-1312. doi: 10.1111/hae.14825

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37428626/
