PMID: 37425600
Title: Percutaneous Transaxillary Impella Device Placement Resulting in Iatrogenic Subclavian Artery Pseudoaneurysm.

Abstract: Subclavian artery pseudoaneurysm (PSA) is a rare complication arising from transaxillary Impella device placement during high-risk percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI). Despite the increasing prevalence of Impella use, literature addressing this complication is scarce. This case emphasizes the limited existing evidence on subclavian artery PSA and highlights the importance of recognizing it as a potential risk. With high-risk PCI and Impella use gaining popularity, understanding this complication is crucial for early detection and appropriate management. A 62-year-old male with a past medical history of type II diabetes mellitus, peripheral artery disease, hypertension, and chronic tobacco use presents with recurrent episodes of exertional chest pain and dyspnea. Initial workup with an electrocardiogram showed ST-segment elevations in the anteroseptal leads. The patient underwent right- and left-sided cardiac catheterization, which revealed severe stenosis of the left anterior descending artery and findings of cardiogenic shock. The patient required mechanical circulatory support with a percutaneous left ventricular assist device during the procedure; this was placed via transaxillary approach due to the patient having peripheral artery disease in bilateral femoral arteries. The patient had a complicated clinical course, but the patient's clinical picture slowly improved, and the percutaneous left ventricular assist device was removed. Roughly six weeks after the removal of the device, the patient developed a large fluid collection in the chest wall anterior to the left shoulder. Imaging revealed a ruptured left distal subclavian artery PSA. The patient was promptly taken to the catheterization laboratory and a covered stent was deployed over the site of the PSA. Repeat angiography revealed brisk flow through the left subclavian artery into the axillary artery with no extravasation into the chest wall.

Citation: Singh I, et al. Percutaneous Transaxillary Impella Device Placement Resulting in Iatrogenic Subclavian Artery Pseudoaneurysm. Percutaneous Transaxillary Impella Device Placement Resulting in Iatrogenic Subclavian Artery Pseudoaneurysm. 2023; 15:e40082. doi: 10.7759/cureus.40082

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37425600/
