PMID: 37432400
Title: 6-Shogaol, an Active Component of Ginger, Inhibits p300 Histone Acetyltransferase Activity and Attenuates the Development of Pressure-Overload-Induced Heart Failure.

Abstract: Hypertrophic stress-induced cardiac remodeling is a compensatory mechanism associated with cardiomyocyte hypertrophy and cardiac fibrosis. Continuation of this response eventually leads to heart failure. The histone acetyltransferase p300 plays an important role in the development of heart failure, and may be a target for heart failure therapy. The phenolic phytochemical 6-shogaol, a pungent component of raw ginger, has various bioactive effects; however, its effect on cardiovascular diseases has not been investigated. One micromolar of 6-shogaol suppressed phenylephrine (PE)-induced increases in cardiomyocyte hypertrophy in rat primary cultured cardiomyocytes. In rat primary cultured cardiac fibroblasts, 6-shogaol suppressed transforming growth factor-beta (TGF-β)-induced increases in L-proline incorporation. It also blocked PE- and TGF-β-induced increases in histone H3K9 acetylation in the same cells and in vitro. An in vitro p300-HAT assay revealed that 6-shogaol suppressed histone acetylation. The mice underwent transverse aortic constriction (TAC) surgery, and were administered 0.2 or 1 mg/kg of 6-shogaol daily for 8 weeks. 6-shogaol prevented TAC-induced systolic dysfunction and cardiac hypertrophy in a dose-dependent manner. Furthermore, it also significantly inhibited TAC-induced increases in histone H3K9 acetylation. These results suggest that 6-shogaol may ameliorate heart failure through a variety of mechanisms, including the inhibition of p300-HAT activity.

Citation: Kawase Y, et al. 6-Shogaol, an Active Component of Ginger, Inhibits p300 Histone Acetyltransferase Activity and Attenuates the Development of Pressure-Overload-Induced Heart Failure. 6-Shogaol, an Active Component of Ginger, Inhibits p300 Histone Acetyltransferase Activity and Attenuates the Development of Pressure-Overload-Induced Heart Failure. 2023; 15:(unknown pages). doi: 10.3390/nu15092232

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37432400/
