PMID: 37430483
Title: Determinants and treatments of heart failure after transcatheter aortic valve implantation: moving up a notch.

Abstract: Transcatheter aortic valve implantation (TAVI) has become an alternative to surgical aortic valve replacement for patients with symptomatic severe aortic stenosis in elderly and comorbid population. Significant improvement in heart function has been observed in patients undergoing TAVI, but numerous patients are readmitted to hospital for heart failure (HF). Moreover, repeat HF hospitalization is strongly associated with an adverse prognosis and increases the financial burden of health care. Although studies have identified pre-existing and post-procedural factors that contribute to HF hospitalization after TAVI, there is a paucity of data regarding optimal post-procedural pharmacological treatments. This review aims to provide an overview of the current understanding of mechanisms, determinants, and potential treatments of HF following TAVI. We first review the pathophysiology of left ventricular (LV) remodelling, coronary microcirculation disorder, and endothelial dysfunction in patients with aortic stenosis and then examine the impact of TAVI on these conditions. We then present evidence of various factors and complications that may interplay with LV remodelling and contribute to HF events after TAVI. Next, we describe the triggers and predictors of early and late HF rehospitalizations following TAVI. Lastly, we discuss the potential of conventional pharmacological treatments, including renin-angiotensin blockers, beta-blockers, and diuretics in TAVI patients. The paper explores the potential of newer drugs, including sodium-glucose co-transporter 2 inhibitors, anti-inflammatory drugs, and ion supplementation. Comprehensive knowledge in this field may aid in recognizing successful existing therapies, developing effective new treatments, and establishing dedicated patient care strategies during follow-up after TAVI.

Citation: Matsushita K, et al. Determinants and treatments of heart failure after transcatheter aortic valve implantation: moving up a notch. Determinants and treatments of heart failure after transcatheter aortic valve implantation: moving up a notch. 2023; 10:2183-2199. doi: 10.1002/ehf2.14435

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37430483/
