PMID: 37438679
Title: Preclinical study of diabetic foot ulcers: From pathogenesis to vivo/vitro models and clinical therapeutic transformation.

Abstract: Diabetic foot ulcer (DFU), a common intractable chronic complication of diabetes mellitus (DM), has a prevalence of up to 25%, with more than 17% of the affected patients at risk of amputation or even death. Vascular risk factors, including vascular stenosis or occlusion, dyslipidemia, impaired neurosensory and motor function, and skin infection caused by trauma, all increase the risk of DFU in patients with diabetes. Therefore, diabetic foot is not a single pathogenesis. Preclinical studies have contributed greatly to the pathogenesis determination and efficacy evaluation of DFU. Many therapeutic tools are currently being investigated using DFU animal models for effective clinical translation. However, preclinical animal models that completely mimic the pathogenesis of DFU remain unexplored. Therefore, in this review, the preparation methods and evaluation criteria of DFU animal models with three major pathological mechanisms: neuropathy, angiopathy and DFU infection were discussed in detail. And the advantages and disadvantages of various DFU animal models for clinical sign simulation. Furthermore, the current status of vitro models of DFU and some preclinical studies have been transformed into clinical treatment programs, such as medical dressings, growth factor therapy, 3D bioprinting and pre-vascularization, Traditional Chinese Medicine treatment. However, because of the complexity of the pathological mechanism of DFU, the clinical transformation of DFU model still faces many challenges. We need to further optimize the existing preclinical studies of DFU to provide an effective animal platform for the future study of pathophysiology and clinical treatment of DFU.

Citation: Du Y, et al. Preclinical study of diabetic foot ulcers: From pathogenesis to vivo/vitro models and clinical therapeutic transformation. Preclinical study of diabetic foot ulcers: From pathogenesis to vivo/vitro models and clinical therapeutic transformation. 2023; 20:4394-4409. doi: 10.1111/iwj.14311

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37438679/
