PMID: 37432059
Title: Endoscopic ultrasound-guided colo-colostomy for the treatment of benign complete occlusion of colonic anastomosis: a case series and description of technique.

Abstract: AIM: The incidence of benign colonic anastomotic stricture is approximately 2% in patients undergoing left hemicolectomy or anterior resection and as high as 16% in patients undergoing low anterior or intersphincteric resection. In the majority, rather than complete occlusion, a stenosis forms, which can be managed with endoscopic balloon dilatation, a self-expanding metallic stent or endoscopic electroincision. In the less common scenario of a completely occluded colonic anastomosis, surgery is often required. In this study, we aim to describe the technique we used to treat this condition non-operatively METHOD: We describe a case series of three patients with benign complete occlusion of their colorectal anastomosis and how we managed them nonoperatively with a colonic/rectal endoscopic ultrasound (EUS) anastomosis technique and a Hot lumen-apposing metallic stent.
RESULTS: We demonstrate that the technical and clinical success for this technique is 100%.
CONCLUSIONS: We believe that the technique we describe is effective and safe. It should be widely reproducible in centres with expertise in interventional EUS, given the similarity to well-established procedures such as EUS-guided gastroenterostomy. Patient selection and timing of reversal of ileostomy need careful consideration, especially in patients with a history of keloid formation. Given the shorter hospital stay and reduced invasiveness of this technique, we believe it should be considered for all patients who have complete benign occlusion of a colonic anastomosis. However, given the small number of cases and short period of follow-up, the long-term outcome of this technique is not known. More studies with higher power and a longer period of follow-up should be conducted to further ascertain the effectiveness of this technique.

Citation: Pang PBC, et al. Endoscopic ultrasound-guided colo-colostomy for the treatment of benign complete occlusion of colonic anastomosis: a case series and description of technique. Endoscopic ultrasound-guided colo-colostomy for the treatment of benign complete occlusion of colonic anastomosis: a case series and description of technique. 2023; 25:1708-1712. doi: 10.1111/codi.16649

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37432059/
