PMID: 37437582
Title: Aneurysm Sac Shrinkage After EVAR Can Lead to Complications: A Case Report of Complete Endograft Thrombosis Due to Kinking.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Bilateral limb occlusion after endovascular repair of abdominal aortic aneurysms (EVAR) is an uncommon entity. The relationship between graft kinking and unilateral limb occlusion is widely described in the literature. Our aim is to report a case of complete endograft thrombosis due to bilateral limb kinking secondary to aneurysm sac shrinkage, treated by endovascular means.
CASE REPORT: A 67 year-old male with history of EVAR with an Incraft® endograft (Cordis, Bridgewater, NJ, USA) four years before, presented at the emergency department with disabling claudication of the right lower extremity and a better tolerated 10-month left extremity claudication. Complete endograft thrombosis with bilateral limb kinking and a remarkable reduction of the aneurysm sac was observed in the computed tomography angiography. An endovascular repair was performed, through bilateral open femoral access and with angiographic control through percutaneous left brachial access. Bilateral recanalization was achieved and the endograft was re-lined with two 10x150 mm Viabahn (WL Gore & Ass., Flagstaff, AZ, USA). Both sides were extended with a 11 × 50 mm Viabahn (WL Gore & Ass., Flagstaff, AZ, USA). The final angiographic control showed bilateral patency with no residual stenosis and the patient recovered distal pulses. Follow-up showed complete patency and no complications at 17 months.
CONCLUSIONS: Bilateral limb occlusion is a rare complication with technically challenging treatment options. Aneurysm sac shrinkage can affect the endograft configuration, leading to limb distortion and occasionally to bilateral limb occlusion after EVAR. Special attention should be put on imaging follow-up to detect these complications before occlusion occurs.

Citation: González Canga C, et al. Aneurysm Sac Shrinkage After EVAR Can Lead to Complications: A Case Report of Complete Endograft Thrombosis Due to Kinking. Aneurysm Sac Shrinkage After EVAR Can Lead to Complications: A Case Report of Complete Endograft Thrombosis Due to Kinking. 2024; 58:105-109. doi: 10.1177/15385744231189019

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37437582/
