PMID: 37432539
Title: Anterior mediastinal tracheostomy for severe tracheal stenosis in a child with severe motor and intellectual disabilities: a case report.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Owing to recurrent aspiration pneumonia and airway stenosis secondary to thoracic deformities, tracheostomy or laryngotracheal separation are often necessary in children with severe motor and intellectual disabilities. However, these procedures are associated with the risks of tracheal stenosis due to tracheal granulation and tracheoinnominate artery fistula formation. We report a case of a child with severe motor and intellectual disabilities treated with an anterior mediastinal tracheostomy.
CASE PRESENTATION: The patient was a 15-year-old boy with severe motor and intellectual disabilities due to intractable epilepsy. Due to thoracic deformity and tracheomalacia, the patient had a flattened and narrowed trachea. Accordingly, laryngotracheal separation was performed 4 months before admission to avoid aspiration pneumonia. Due to a common cold, the patient required frequent sputum suctioning, which exacerbated the tracheal stenosis. Bronchoscopy revealed tracheal stenosis 4-5 cm caudal to the tracheostomy site, tracheal mucosal ulcers, and pulsation of the innominate artery on the anterior wall of the trachea. We performed an anterior mediastinum tracheostomy to release the tracheal stenosis and prevent tracheoinnominate artery fistula formation.
CONCLUSIONS: Anterior mediastinal tracheostomy has several advantages. Including sufficient release of bony compression, release of tracheal hyperextension, and relief of tracheal and innominate artery contact ensures a cannula-free tracheostomy, and there is no need to dissect the brachiocephalic artery. It is the procedure of choice in cases of head and neck malignancies requiring extensive tracheal resection and could be a good surgical option for severe tracheal stenosis and tracheoinnominate artery fistula in children with severe motor and intellectual disabilities.

Citation: Iwanaka T, et al. Anterior mediastinal tracheostomy for severe tracheal stenosis in a child with severe motor and intellectual disabilities: a case report. Anterior mediastinal tracheostomy for severe tracheal stenosis in a child with severe motor and intellectual disabilities: a case report. 2023; 9:128. doi: 10.1186/s40792-023-01712-w

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37432539/
