PMID: 37433067
Title: The Association Between Age at Diagnosis and Disease Characteristics and Damage in Patients With ANCA-Associated Vasculitis.

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: This study examined the relationship between age at diagnosis and disease characteristics and damage in patients with antineutrophil cytoplasmic antibody (ANCA)-associated vasculitis (AAV).
METHODS: Analysis of a prospective longitudinal cohort of patients with granulomatosis with polyangiitis (GPA), microscopic polyangiitis (MPA), and eosinophilic GPA (EGPA) in the Vasculitis Clinical Research Consortium (2013-2021). Disease cohorts were divided by age at diagnosis (years): children (<18), young adults (18-40), middle-aged adults (41-65), and older adults (>65). Data included demographics, ANCA type, clinical characteristics, Vasculitis Damage Index (VDI) scores, ANCA Vasculitis Index of Damage (AVID) scores, and novel disease-specific and non-disease-specific damage scores built from VDI and AVID items.
RESULTS: Analysis included data from 1020 patients with GPA/MPA and 357 with EGPA. Female predominance in GPA/MPA decreased with age at diagnosis. AAV in childhood was more often GPA and proteinase 3-ANCA positive. Children with GPA/MPA experienced more subglottic stenosis and alveolar hemorrhage; children and young adults with EGPA experienced more alveolar hemorrhage, need for intubation, and gastrointestinal involvement. Older adults (GPA/MPA) had more neurologic manifestations. After adjusting for disease duration, medications, tobacco, and ANCA, all damage scores increased with age at diagnosis for GPA/MPA (P < 0.001) except the disease-specific damage score, which did not differ (P = 0.44). For EGPA, VDI scores increased with age at diagnosis (P < 0.009), whereas all other scores were not significantly different.
CONCLUSION: Age at diagnosis is associated with clinical characteristics in AAV. Although VDI and AVID scores increase with age at diagnosis, this is driven by non-disease-specific damage items.

Citation: Bloom JL, et al. The Association Between Age at Diagnosis and Disease Characteristics and Damage in Patients With ANCA-Associated Vasculitis. The Association Between Age at Diagnosis and Disease Characteristics and Damage in Patients With ANCA-Associated Vasculitis. 2023; 75:2216-2227. doi: 10.1002/art.42651

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37433067/
