PMID: 37430281
Title: Necessity of fusion following decompression surgery in patients with single-level lumbar stenosis: study protocol for an open-label multicentre non-inferiority randomized controlled clinical trial.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: The necessity of spinal segment fusion after decompression is one of the most controversial and unresolved issues in single-level lumbar spinal stenosis surgery. To date, only one trial carried out 15 years ago focused on this problem. The key purpose of the current trial is to compare the long-term clinical results of the two surgical methods (decompression vs. decompression and fusion) in patients with single-level lumbar stenosis.
METHODS: This study is focused on the non-inferior clinical results of decompression compared with the standard fusion procedure. In the decompression group, the spinous process, the interspinous and supraspinous ligaments, part of the facet joints, and corresponding parts of the vertebral arch are to be preserved intact. In the fusion group, decompression is to be supplemented with transforaminal interbody fusion. Participants meeting the inclusion criteria will be randomly divided into two equal groups (1:1), depending on the surgical method. The final analysis will include 86 patients (43 per group). The primary endpoint is Oswestry Disability Index dynamics at the end of the 24-month follow-up compared to the baseline level. Secondary outcomes included those estimated using the SF-36 scale, EQ-5D-5L, and psychological scales. Additional parameters will include sagittal balance of the spine, fusion results, total cost of surgery, and hospital stay followed by two-year treatment. Follow-up examinations will be performed at 3, 6, 12, and 24 months DISCUSSION: Authors suggest that this study will improve the evidence for application of various surgical techniques for lumbar spine stenosis surgery and verify the existing protocol for surgical management.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: ClinicalTrials.gov NCT05273879 . Registered on March 10, 2022.

Citation: Grin A, et al. Necessity of fusion following decompression surgery in patients with single-level lumbar stenosis: study protocol for an open-label multicentre non-inferiority randomized controlled clinical trial. Necessity of fusion following decompression surgery in patients with single-level lumbar stenosis: study protocol for an open-label multicentre non-inferiority randomized controlled clinical trial. 2023; 24:451. doi: 10.1186/s13063-023-07486-8

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37430281/
