PMID: 37431253
Title: Improving access to transcatheter aortic valve implantation across Europe by restructuring cardiovascular services: An expert council consensus statement.

Abstract: Transcatheter aortic valve implantation (TAVI) is recommended for a growing range of patients with severe aortic stenosis in the European Society of Cardiology and European Association for Cardio-Thoracic Surgery (ESC/EACTS) 2021 Guidelines update. However, guideline implementation programs are needed to ensure the application of clinical recommendations which will favorably influence disease outcomes. An Expert Council was convened to identify whether cardiology services across Europe are set up to address the growing needs of patients with severe aortic stenosis for increased access to TAVI by identifying the key challenges faced in growing TAVI programs and mapping associated solutions. Wide variation exists across Europe in terms of TAVI availability and capacity to deliver the increased demand for TAVI in different countries. The recommendations of this Expert Council focus on the short-to-medium-term aspects where the most immediate, actionable impact can be achieved. The focus on improving procedural efficiency and optimizing the patient pathway via clinical practice and patient management demonstrates how to mitigate the current major issues of shortfall in catheterization laboratory, workforce, and bed capacity. Procedural efficiencies may be achieved through steps including streamlined patient assessment, the benchmarking of standards for minimalist procedures, standardized approaches around patient monitoring and conduction issues, and the implementation of nurse specialists and dedicated TAVI coordinators to manage organization, logistics, and early mobilization. Increased collaboration with wider stakeholders within institutions will support successful TAVI uptake and improve patient and economic outcomes. Further, increased education, collaboration, and partnership between cardiology centers will facilitate sharing of expertise and best clinical practice.

Citation: Zamorano JL, et al. Improving access to transcatheter aortic valve implantation across Europe by restructuring cardiovascular services: An expert council consensus statement. Improving access to transcatheter aortic valve implantation across Europe by restructuring cardiovascular services: An expert council consensus statement. 2023; 102:547-557. doi: 10.1002/ccd.30760

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37431253/
