PMID: 37430314
Title: Randomized double-blind personalized N-of-1 clinical trial to test the safety and potential efficacy of TJ-68 for treating muscle cramps in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS): study protocol for a TJ-68 trial.

Abstract: INTRODUCTION/AIMS: Muscle cramps are a common and often disabling symptom in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), a devastating and incurable neurodegenerative disorder. To date, there are no medications specifically approved for the treatment of muscle cramps. Ameliorating muscle cramps in ALS may improve and sustain quality of life. A widely prescribed traditional Japanese (Kampo) medicine against muscle cramps, shakuyakukanzoto (TJ-68), has been studied in advanced liver disease, spinal stenosis, kidney failure, and diabetic neuropathy. The Japanese ALS Management Guideline mentions TJ-68 for difficult muscle cramps in ALS. Therefore, the rationale of our trial is to investigate the safety and effectiveness of TJ-68 in treating painful and disabling muscle cramps in people with ALS outside of Japan. Accordingly, we are conducting a randomized clinical trial to test the safety and efficacy of TJ-68 in participants with ALS reporting frequent muscle cramps using an innovative, personalized N-of-1 design. If successful, TJ-68 may be used for muscle cramps in a broader population of people with ALS.
METHODS: This is a two-site, double-blind, randomized personalized N-of-1 early clinical trial with TJ-68. At least 22 participants with ALS and daily muscle cramps will receive drug or placebo for 2 weeks (one treatment period) followed by a 1-week washout in a four-period cross-over design. While the primary objective is to evaluate the safety of TJ-68, the study has 85% power to detect a one-point shift on the Visual Analog Scale for Muscle Cramps Affecting Overall Daily Activity of the Columbia Muscle Cramp Scale (MCS). Secondary outcomes include the full MCS score, a Cramp Diary, Clinical Global Impression of Changes, Goal Attainment Scale, quality of life scale and ALS functional rating scale-revised (ALSFRS-R).
DISCUSSION: The study is underway. A personalized N-of-1 trial design is an efficient approach to testing medications that alleviate muscle cramps in rare disorders. If TJ-68 proves safe and efficacious then it may be used to treat cramps in ALS, and help to improve and sustain quality of life.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: This clinical trial has been registered with ClinicalTrials.gov (NCT04998305), 8/9/2021.

Citation: Mitsumoto H, et al. Randomized double-blind personalized N-of-1 clinical trial to test the safety and potential efficacy of TJ-68 for treating muscle cramps in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS): study protocol for a TJ-68 trial. Randomized double-blind personalized N-of-1 clinical trial to test the safety and potential efficacy of TJ-68 for treating muscle cramps in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS): study protocol for a TJ-68 trial. 2023; 24:449. doi: 10.1186/s13063-023-07424-8

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37430314/
