PMID: 37442058
Title: Anatomical findings in patients with chronic rhinosinusitis without nasal polyps requiring revision surgery.

Abstract: OBJECTIVES: For the treatment of chronic rhinosinusitis functional endoscopic sinus surgery is a well-established therapy with high initial success rates. However, a significant proportion of patients have persistent disease requiring revision surgery. To date, studies including data of large patient collectives are missing. In this study, we aimed to identify anatomic factors increasing the need for revision surgery in a large patient collective with chronic rhinosinusitis without nasal polyps.
METHODS: Data were collected retrospectively on patients with recurrent or persistent chronic rhinosinusitis without nasal polyps requiring revision surgery. The patients' symptomatology, endoscopic and radiographic findings were analyzed. Preoperatively, patients were evaluated with endoscopic examination of the nose and paranasal sinuses. In all individuals computed tomography of the sinuses was performed. Images were evaluated according to the Lund-Mackay system. Information was also collected intraoperatively.
RESULTS: 253 patients were included. The most common anatomic factor was incomplete anterior ethmoidectomy (51%), followed by residual uncinated process (37%), middle turbinate lateralization (25%), incomplete posterior ethmoidectomy (20%), frontal recess scarring (19%), and middle meatal stenosis (9%). Other factors such as persistent sphenoid pathology was less frequent.
CONCLUSION: Iatrogenic causes with inadequate resection of obstructing structures seem to be a principal risk factor for recurrent chronic rhinosinusitis and the need for revision sinus surgery. Meticulous attention in the area of the ostiomeatal complex during surgery with ventilation of obstructed anatomy as well as avoidance of scarring and turbinate destabilization may reduce the failure rate after primary endoscopic sinus surgery.
LEVEL OF EVIDENCE: 2b.

Citation: Englhard AS and Ledderose GJ. Anatomical findings in patients with chronic rhinosinusitis without nasal polyps requiring revision surgery. Anatomical findings in patients with chronic rhinosinusitis without nasal polyps requiring revision surgery. 2023; 89:101287. doi: 10.1016/j.bjorl.2023.101287

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37442058/
