PMID: 37445379
Title: Comparative Study for Characteristics of Locomotive Syndrome in Patients with Lumbar Stenosis and Adult Spinal Deformity.

Abstract: INTRODUCTION: The differential diagnoses of lumbar spinal stenosis (LSS) and adult spinal deformity (ASD) have been demonstrated primarily using sagittal radiographic spinopelvic parameters. However, it is more important to know the differences in the characteristic clinical symptoms to make accurate treatment decisions. Recently, the relationship between spinal disease and Locomotive Syndrome (LS) has been reported. Additionally, the Geriatric Locomotive Function Scale-25 (GLFS-25) was reported to be a useful scale to evaluate disease severity and characteristic clinical symptoms in spinal disease.
METHODS: Sixty-nine consecutive patients with ASD and 196 patients with LSS who underwent spinal surgery were included. Locomotive dysfunction was evaluated using the GLFS-25 questionnaire and physical performance tests including the two-step test and the stand-up test, measured preoperatively. The correlations between sagittal spinopelvic parameters of ASD and LS were examined.
RESULTS: All subjects with lumbar degenerative disease in the present study were diagnosed with LS preoperatively. The severity of LS in patients with LSS and ASD were statistically similar. GLFS-25 scores in the mobility and community domain were similarly poor in both groups. Several scores in the domestic life and self-care domains were significantly worse in the ASD group. Question 20 of the GLFS-25, related to load-bearing tasks and housework, was significantly associated with a large pelvic incidence in ASD patients.
CONCLUSIONS: Lumbar degenerative disease requiring surgery severely affects the LS of older people. ASD patients had more difficulty with load-bearing tasks and housework such as cleaning the yard, carrying heavy bedding, dressing, and bathing compared to LSS patients.

Citation: Ohba T, et al. Comparative Study for Characteristics of Locomotive Syndrome in Patients with Lumbar Stenosis and Adult Spinal Deformity. Comparative Study for Characteristics of Locomotive Syndrome in Patients with Lumbar Stenosis and Adult Spinal Deformity. 2023; 12:(unknown pages). doi: 10.3390/jcm12134345

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37445379/
