PMID: 37441354
Title: Coronary Artery Disease in Persons With Human Immunodeficiency Virus Without Detectable Viral Replication.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: We aimed to determine the prevalence of coronary artery disease (CAD) in persons with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV; PWH) and investigate whether inflammatory markers, including interleukin 6, IL-1β, and high-sensitivity C-reactive protein (hsCRP), were associated with CAD.
METHODS: From the Copenhagen Comorbidity in HIV Infection (COCOMO) study, we included virologically suppressed PWH who underwent coronary computed tomographic (CT) angiography. Any atherosclerosis was defined as >0% stenosis, and obstructive CAD as ≥50% stenosis.
RESULTS: Among 669 participants (mean age [standard deviation], 51 [11] years; 89% male), 300 (45%) had atherosclerosis, and 119 (18%) had obstructive CAD. The following risk factors were associated with any atherosclerosis and with obstructive CAD: age, male sex, hypertension, diabetes, smoking, dyslipidemia, time with HIV, and current protease inhibitor use. Interleukin 6 (IL-6) and hsCRP levels >2 mg/L were associated with any atherosclerosis and with obstructive CAD in univariable analyses but not after adjustment for traditional risk factors. IL-1β was not associated with CAD.
CONCLUSIONS: In a large population of PWH without viral replication, almost half had angiographically verified atherosclerosis. High concentrations of IL-6 and hsCRP were associated with CAD in univariable analyses, but adjustment for cardiovascular risk factors attenuated the association, suggesting that inflammation may mediate the association between traditional risk factors and CAD.

Citation: Knudsen AD, et al. Coronary Artery Disease in Persons With Human Immunodeficiency Virus Without Detectable Viral Replication. Coronary Artery Disease in Persons With Human Immunodeficiency Virus Without Detectable Viral Replication. 2023; 10:ofad298. doi: 10.1093/ofid/ofad298

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37441354/
