PMID: 37448216
Title: Safety and efficacy of a novel calcified plaque modification technique - Shockwave Intravascular Lithotripsy - in patients with coronary artery disease: Mid-term outcomes.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Coronary interventions in calcified lesions are associated with a higher rate of adverse clinical events. Initial aggressive plaque modification along with post-implantation optimization is pivotal for achieving a favorable outcome of percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI). Recently, the Shockwave C2 Intravascular Lithotripsy (S-IVL) System, a novel acoustic wave-based device designed to modify calcified plaque, has been introduced into clinical practice.
AIMS: We evaluated the mid-term safety and efficiency of S-IVL in a cohort of 131 consecutive patients with severely calcified coronary lesions.
METHODS: We retrospectively analyzed a total of 131 consecutive S-IVL PCI procedures. The study had two main inclusion criteria - the presence of a calcified resistant lesion (defined by inadequate non-compliant balloon catheter inflation) or a significantly underexpanded stent (more than 20% of reference diameter). The study had two primary endpoints - successful clinical outcome and safety concerns. Clinical success was defined as effective stent deployment or optimization of a previously underexpanded stent (with less than <20% in-stent residual stenosis). Safety outcomes were defined as periprocedural complications, such as device failure and major adverse cardiac and cerebrovascular events (MACCE). Clinical follow-up was performed at the end of hospitalization and 6 months after the index procedure.
RESULTS: In-hospital MACCE was 4.6% with 1.5% target lesion revascularization (TLR) and one case of subacute fatal stent thrombosis. At 6-month follow-up, the MACCE rate was 7.9% with a concomitant TLR rate of 3.8%.
CONCLUSION: Our mid-term data confirm acceptable safety and efficacy of intravascular lithotripsy as a valuable strategy for lesion preparation and stent optimization in a cohort of 131 consecutive patients with severely calcified coronary lesions.

Citation: Rola P, et al. Safety and efficacy of a novel calcified plaque modification technique - Shockwave Intravascular Lithotripsy - in patients with coronary artery disease: Mid-term outcomes. Safety and efficacy of a novel calcified plaque modification technique - Shockwave Intravascular Lithotripsy - in patients with coronary artery disease: Mid-term outcomes. 2023; 81:878-885. doi: 10.33963/KP.a2023.0152

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37448216/
