PMID: 37449418
Title: Human Plasma IgG N-Glycome Profiles Reveal a Proinflammatory Phenotype in Chronic Thromboembolic Pulmonary Hypertension.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: The pathological mechanism of chronic thromboembolic pulmonary hypertension (CTEPH) is not fully understood, and inflammation has been reported to be one of its etiological factors. IgG regulates systemic inflammatory homeostasis, primarily through its N-glycans. Little is known about IgG N-glycosylation in CTEPH. We aimed to map the IgG N-glycome of CTEPH to provide new insights into its pathogenesis and discover novel markers and therapies.
METHODS: We characterized the plasma IgG N-glycome of patients with CTEPH in a discovery cohort and validated our results in an independent validation cohort using matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization time of flight mass spectrometry. Thereafter, we correlated IgG N-glycans with clinical parameters and circulating inflammatory cytokines in patients with CTEPH. Furthermore, we determined IgG N-glycan quantitative trait loci in CTEPH to reveal partial mechanisms underlying glycan changes.
RESULTS: Decreased IgG galactosylation representing a proinflammatory phenotype was found in CTEPH. The distribution of IgG galactosylation showed a strong association with NT-proBNP (N-terminal pro-B-type natriuretic peptide) in CTEPH. In line with the glycomic findings, IgG pro-/anti-inflammatory N-glycans correlated well with a series of inflammatory markers and gene loci that have been reported to be involved in the regulation of these glycans or inflammatory immune responses.
CONCLUSIONS: This is the first study to reveal the full signature of the IgG N-glycome of a proinflammatory phenotype and the genes involved in its regulation in CTEPH. Plasma IgG galactosylation may be useful for evaluating the inflammatory state in patients with CTEPH; however, this requires further validation. This study improves our understanding of the mechanisms underlying CTEPH inflammation from the perspective of glycomics.

Citation: Zhang ZJ, et al. Human Plasma IgG N-Glycome Profiles Reveal a Proinflammatory Phenotype in Chronic Thromboembolic Pulmonary Hypertension. Human Plasma IgG N-Glycome Profiles Reveal a Proinflammatory Phenotype in Chronic Thromboembolic Pulmonary Hypertension. 2023; 80:1929-1939. doi: 10.1161/HYPERTENSIONAHA.123.21408

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37449418/
