PMID: 37443141
Title: Primary sclerosing encapsulating peritonitis: a case report.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Sclerosing encapsulating peritonitis is a rare condition with a typical macroscopic appearance, with fibrocollagenous membrane enclosing loops of the small intestine, causing intestinal obstruction. Unexplained recurrent abdominal pain, obstruction, and a large array of other possible clinical signs and symptoms make sclerosing encapsulating peritonitis a diagnostic challenge.
CASE PRESENTATION: A 48-year-old man of Persian ethnicity was admitted multiple times to the emergency surgery department due to recurrent sudden abdominal pain and chronic obstruction without significant findings in medical history or clinical evaluation. Computed tomography was positive for proximal jejunal dilatation and duodenojejunal flexure stenosis due to internal mesenteric hernia. Exploratory laparoscopy, followed by laparotomy, confirmed thick membrane-like fibrous tissue with complete small intestinal loop envelopment. Extensive membrane excision and adhesiolysis was performed, but no mesenteric herniation was found. Early postoperative paralytic ileus with introduction of low-dose steroid therapy, based on histopathological and immunological results, confirming type III sclerosing encapsulating peritonitis, was completely resolved.
CONCLUSION: Sclerosing encapsulating peritonitis is a rare and difficult-to-diagnose condition, further divided into primary and secondary sclerosing encapsulating peritonitis, on the basis of underlying etiology, dictating treatment modality and prognosis. Intraoperative diagnosis and surgical treatment are mandatory, besides a wide variety of abdominal computed tomography scans, inconclusive results, and clinical presentations. There are so far no known specific markers for the diagnosis of sclerosing encapsulating peritonitis.

Citation: Pintar T, et al. Primary sclerosing encapsulating peritonitis: a case report. Primary sclerosing encapsulating peritonitis: a case report. 2023; 17:318. doi: 10.1186/s13256-023-04020-x

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37443141/
