PMID: 37445378
Title: Acute Changes in Right Ventricular Function in Pediatric Patients with Pulmonary Valve Stenosis Undergoing Percutaneous Valvuloplasty: A Speckle-Tracking Study.

Abstract: INTRODUCTION: Pulmonary valve stenosis determines multiple effects on the right ventricular dimension and function. Percutaneous balloon valvuloplasty is the treatment of choice in severe pulmonary valve stenosis in patients of all ages. However, little is known regarding right ventricular function immediate changes after percutaneous balloon dilation. Pediatric patients with isolated pulmonary valve stenosis represent a pure clinical model of chronic RV pressure overload not affected by other confounders or comorbidities.
AIM OF THE STUDY: This study seeks to explore right ventricle (RV) mechanics in pediatric patients early after percutaneous balloon pulmonary valvuloplasty (BPV) for valvar pulmonary stenosis (PS).
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Forty-three pediatric patients (19 males), mean age 3.2 ± 4.9 years old, with severe pulmonary valve stenosis and indication for percutaneous balloon valvuloplasty were recruited. All patients underwent standard transthoracic echocardiography (TTE), and speckle-tracking echocardiography (STE) with an analysis of right ventricle free-wall longitudinal strain (RVFWLS) one day before and one day after the procedure. For each patient, we collected invasive parameters during the interventional procedure before and after BPV.
RESULTS: After the procedure, there was an immediate significant reduction in both peak-to-peak transpulmonary gradient (peak-to-peak PG) and ratio between the right ventricle and aortic systolic pressure (RV/AoP) with a drop of ∆29.3 ± 14.67 mmHg and ∆0.43 ± 0.03, respectively. Post-procedural echocardiography showed peak and mean transvalvar pressure gradient drop (∆50 ± 32.23 and ∆31 ± 17.97, respectively). The degree of pulmonary valve regurgitation was mild in 8% of patients before the procedure, affecting 29% of our patients post-BPV (p = 0.007). The analysis of right ventricular mechanics showed a significant improvement of fractional area change (FAC) immediately after BPV (40.11% vs. 44.42%, p = 0.01). On the other hand, right ventricular longitudinal systolic function parameters, TAPSE and global RVFWLS, did not improve significantly after intervention. The segmental analysis of the RVFWLS showed a significant regional increase in the myocardial deformation of the apical segments.
CONCLUSIONS: Percutaneous BPV represents an efficient and safe procedure to relieve severe pulmonary valve stenosis. The analysis of the right ventricular function on echocardiography demonstrated an immediate global systolic function improvement, while longitudinal systolic function was persistently impaired 24 h after intervention, possibly due to the necessity of a longer recovery time.

Citation: Sirico D, et al. Acute Changes in Right Ventricular Function in Pediatric Patients with Pulmonary Valve Stenosis Undergoing Percutaneous Valvuloplasty: A Speckle-Tracking Study. Acute Changes in Right Ventricular Function in Pediatric Patients with Pulmonary Valve Stenosis Undergoing Percutaneous Valvuloplasty: A Speckle-Tracking Study. 2023; 12:(unknown pages). doi: 10.3390/jcm12134344

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37445378/
