PMID: 37443516
Title: Post-extubation use of high-flow nasal oxygenation induces upper airway leak and intrathoracic sepsis after successful Bentall procedure: A case report.

Abstract: RATIONALE: In recent few years, high-flow nasal oxygenation (HFNO) has been widely used for management of acute hypoxemic respiratory failure and during postextubation periods, including after endotracheal intubation general anesthesia (ETGA). However, HFNO generates positive pressure in the injured airway following removal of endotracheal tube may cause airway leaks. This is the first case report of severe airway leak syndrome following postextubation use of HFNO in surgical patients.
PATIENT CONCERNS: This case report describes a 75-year-old female with critical aortic stenosis who underwent an emergency Bentall procedure. HFNO (flow rate of 45 L/min) was applied after weaning from mechanical ventilation and removal of the endotracheal tube.
DIAGNOSES: At 6 hours after HFNO application, subcutaneous emphysema in the neck bilaterally and face was noted, and the emphysema extended into the supraclavicular regions.
INTERVENTIONS: The HFNO cannula was removed soon after and the patient was re-intubated with an endotracheal tube the following day due to progressive respiratory insufficiency. Unfortunately, the patient general condition deteriorated, as the subcutaneous air collections progressed into deep tissue infections of the neck, mediastinal abscesses, and left-sided empyema. Patient received surgical interventions repeatedly to drain the mediastinal abscess and empiric antimicrobial therapy was given.
OUTCOMES: The patient passed away about 2 months later due to uncontrollable sepsis.
LESSONS: Air leaks in the upper airway can occur during the use of post-extubation HFNO use, and the resulting subcutaneous emphysema can progress to severe intrathoracic infections in surgical patients who have a sternotomy wound. Therefore, HFNO-induced subcutaneous emphysema should be treated more aggressively in open thoracic or sternotomy surgeries to prevent the development of intrathoracic sepsis.

Citation: Liao YY, et al. Post-extubation use of high-flow nasal oxygenation induces upper airway leak and intrathoracic sepsis after successful Bentall procedure: A case report. Post-extubation use of high-flow nasal oxygenation induces upper airway leak and intrathoracic sepsis after successful Bentall procedure: A case report. 2023; 102:e34240. doi: 10.1097/MD.0000000000034240

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37443516/
