PMID: 37443830
Title: Atrial Cardiomyopathy in Valvular Heart Disease: From Molecular Biology to Clinical Perspectives.

Abstract: This review discusses the evolving topic of atrial cardiomyopathy concerning valvular heart disease. The pathogenesis of atrial cardiomyopathy involves multiple factors, such as valvular disease leading to atrial structural and functional remodeling due to pressure and volume overload. Atrial enlargement and dysfunction can trigger atrial tachyarrhythmia. The complex interaction between valvular disease and atrial cardiomyopathy creates a vicious cycle of aggravating atrial enlargement, dysfunction, and valvular disease severity. Furthermore, atrial remodeling and arrhythmia can predispose to atrial thrombus formation and stroke. The underlying pathomechanism of atrial myopathy involves molecular, cellular, and subcellular alterations resulting in chronic inflammation, atrial fibrosis, and electrophysiological changes. Atrial dysfunction has emerged as an essential determinant of outcomes in valvular disease and heart failure. Despite its predictive value, the detection of atrial fibrosis and dysfunction is challenging and is not included in the clinical routine. Transthoracic echocardiography and cardiac magnetic resonance imaging are the main diagnostic tools for atrial cardiomyopathy. Recently published data have revealed that both left atrial volumes and functional parameters are independent predictors of cardiovascular events in valvular disease. The integration of atrial function assessment in clinical practice might help in early cardiovascular risk estimation, promoting early therapeutic intervention in valvular disease.

Citation: Molnár AÁ, et al. Atrial Cardiomyopathy in Valvular Heart Disease: From Molecular Biology to Clinical Perspectives. Atrial Cardiomyopathy in Valvular Heart Disease: From Molecular Biology to Clinical Perspectives. 2023; 12:(unknown pages). doi: 10.3390/cells12131796

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37443830/
