PMID: 37445576
Title: Coronary Computed Tomography Angiography and Abdominal Aortic Calcification Screening among High-Risk Living Kidney Donors.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: A unique scanning protocol combining coronary computed tomography angiography (CTA) with routine abdominal CTA is being used at the Rabin Medical Center as a method of screening high-risk candidates for living kidney donation. We aim to evaluate the potential impact of coronary CTA on the decision regarding eligibility for kidney donation and its correlation with abdominal aortic calcification (AAC).
METHODS: CCTA and abdominal CTA results of potential living kidney donors evaluated for donation between September 2020 and November 2021 were retrieved. A retrospective analysis of the abdominal CTA was used to calculate the AAC. Patients' demographic, clinical, and imaging data were collected from the electronic files, as well as the final decision regarding eligibility for donation.
RESULTS: A total of 62 potential kidney donors were evaluated for donation using the combined scan. The mean age was 53.8 years, with male predominance (59.7%). Significant coronary artery stenosis (≥70% luminal stenosis) was present in two patients (3.2%), whereas five patients (8%) had moderate stenosis (50-69%). Thirteen patients (21%) were disqualified from donation due to moderate-to-significant coronary artery disease or abdominal atherosclerosis. The correlation between the coronary artery calcium score and the AAC was found to be positive, with a Pearson correlation coefficient of 0.88 (p &lt; 0.001).
CONCLUSIONS: The use of coronary CTA in the evaluation of potential kidney donors may has a potential impact on the decision regarding eligibility for donation. A high correlation between the coronary artery calcium score and the AAC was found.

Citation: Skalsky K, et al. Coronary Computed Tomography Angiography and Abdominal Aortic Calcification Screening among High-Risk Living Kidney Donors. Coronary Computed Tomography Angiography and Abdominal Aortic Calcification Screening among High-Risk Living Kidney Donors. 2023; 12:(unknown pages). doi: 10.3390/jcm12134541

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37445576/
