PMID: 37448414
Title: Peripheral Arterial Disease: A Narrative Review.

Abstract: Peripheral arterial disease (PAD) describes the partial or complete occlusion of blood flow in the distal arteries of the body. A decreased arterial patency may occur due to a reduction in the elasticity or diameter of the vessel. The goal of interventions is to decrease incidence and reduce complications by identifying and minimizing the primary causes. This paper discusses PAD affecting the aortoiliac, common femoral, and femoropopliteal arteries. In a significant portion of the population, PAD may lack usual symptoms such as limb pain, claudication, and diminished pulses. Imaging techniques become crucial to ensuring timely diagnosis, monitoring treatment effectiveness, and preventing recurrence. Duplex ultrasound (DUS) is a cheap and non-invasive preliminary technique to detect atherosclerotic plaques and grade arterial stenosis. Magnetic resonance angiography (MRA) provides the added advantage of minimizing artifacts. Digital subtraction angiography (DSA) remains the gold standard for grading the degree of stenosis but is only employed second-line to DUS or MRA due to the high dose of nephrotoxic contrast. Computed tomography angiography (CTA) is able to overcome the anatomical limitations of DUS and MRA and proves to be a suitable alternative to DSA in patients with renal disease. Preventative measures involve monitoring blood pressure, cholesterol levels, and tobacco usage. First-line treatment options include endovascular procedures as well as surgical interventions in cases of significant arterial involvement. Endovascular treatments involve the use of balloon angioplasty, drug-coated balloons, and drug-coated stents, to name a few, that serve as minimally invasive techniques to manage PAD. Surgical procedures, although more complex, are considered gold-standard treatment options for long and intricate lesions. Endovascular methods are generally preferred over surgical options as the complication risk is severely reduced and the rates of reintervention are comparable to surgical options.

Citation: Parwani D, et al. Peripheral Arterial Disease: A Narrative Review. Peripheral Arterial Disease: A Narrative Review. 2023; 15:e40267. doi: 10.7759/cureus.40267

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37448414/
