PMID: 37455034
Title: Nonatherosclerotic Renovascular Hypertension.

Abstract: Renovascular hypertension (RVH) is a secondary form of high blood pressure resulting from impaired blood flow to the kidneys with subsequent activation of the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system. Often, this occurs due to abnormally small, narrowed, or blocked blood vessels supplying one or both kidneys (ie: renal artery occlusive disease) and is correctable. Juxtaglomerular cells release renin in response to decreased pressure, which in turn catalyzes the cleavage of circulating angiotensinogen synthesized by the liver to the decapeptide angiotensin I. Angiotensin-converting enzyme then cleaves angiotensin I to form the octapeptide angiotensin II, a potent vasopressor and the primary effector of renin-induced hypertension. The effects of angiotensin II are mediated by signaling downstream of its receptors. Angiotensin receptor type 1 is a G-protein-coupled receptor that activates vasoconstrictor and mitogenic signaling pathways resulting in peripheral arteriolar vasoconstriction and increased renal tubular reabsorption of sodium and water which promotes intravascular volume expansion. Angiotensin II stimulates the adrenal cortical release of aldosterone, which promotes renal tubular sodium reabsorption, resulting in volume expansion. Angiotensin II acts on glial cells and regions of the brain responsible for blood pressure regulation increasing renal sympathetic activation. Angiotensin II simulates the release of vasopressin from the pituitary which stimulates thirst and water reabsorption from the kidney to expand the intravascular volume and cause peripheral vasoconstriction (increased sympathetic tone). All of these mechanisms coalesce to increase arterial pressure by way of arteriolar constriction, enhanced cardiac output, and the retention of sodium and water.

Citation: Dalman J and Coleman DM. Nonatherosclerotic Renovascular Hypertension. Nonatherosclerotic Renovascular Hypertension. 2023; 103:733-743. doi: 10.1016/j.suc.2023.05.007

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37455034/
