PMID: 37459894
Title: Preclinical validation of the advection diffusion flow estimation method using computational patient specific coronary tree phantoms.

Abstract: Coronary computed tomography angiography (CCTA) does not allow the quantification of reduced blood flow due to coronary artery disease (CAD). In response, numerical methods based on the CCTA image have been developed to compute coronary blood flow and assess the impact of disease. However to compute blood flow in the coronary arteries, numerical methods require specification of boundary conditions that are difficult to estimate accurately in a patient-specific manner. We describe herein a new noninvasive flow estimation method, called Advection Diffusion Flow Estimation (ADFE), to compute coronary artery flow from CCTA to use as boundary conditions for numerical models of coronary blood flow. ADFE uses image contrast variation along the tree-like structure to estimate flow in each vessel. For validating this method we used patient specific software phantoms on which the transport of contrast was simulated. This controlled validation setting enables a direct comparison between estimated flow and actual flow and a detailed investigation of factors affecting accuracy. A total of 10 CCTA image data sets were processed to extract all necessary information for simulating contrast transport. A spectral element method solver was used for computing the ground truth simulations with high accuracy. On this data set, the ADFE method showed a high correlation coefficient of 0.998  between estimated flow and the ground truth flow together with an average relative error of only 1 %  . Comparing the ADFE method with the best method currently available (TAFE) for image-based blood flow estimation, which showed a correlation coefficient of 0.752  and average error of 20 %  , it can be concluded that the ADFE method has the potential to significantly improve the quantification of coronary artery blood flow derived from contrast gradients in CCTA images.

Citation: Bakker LMML, et al. Preclinical validation of the advection diffusion flow estimation method using computational patient specific coronary tree phantoms. Preclinical validation of the advection diffusion flow estimation method using computational patient specific coronary tree phantoms. 2023; 39:e3746. doi: 10.1002/cnm.3746

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37459894/
