PMID: 37460281
Title: [A Case of Autoimmune Acquired Factor XIII Deficiency Diagnosed from Recurrent Postoperative Bleeding].

Abstract: The patient was a 79-year-old man with ureteroileal anastomotic stricture after a Bricker ileal conduit. Endourological treatment of stenosis was performed via percutaneous nephrostomy and ileal conduit. The patient experienced lower abdominal pain on the following day, and computed tomographic (CT) scan showed hematoma retention around the kidney and active bleeding from the renal artery branches. Transarterial embolisation (TAE) was performed and the bleeding was controlled. Two days later, there was a sudden progression of anemia and CT showed an increase in hematoma around the kidney. We subsequently performed nephrectomy for hemostasis. Five days later, the anemia progressed further. There was hematoma retention in the retroperitoneal cavity, and emergency laparotomy hemostasis was performed. Routine coagulation test results were normal. Heavy bleeding was observed several days after TAE and the possibility of coagulation factor XIII deficiency was considered. Factor XIII deficiency was confirmed by a low factor XIII activity level. The patient was given plasma-derived factor XIII. After receiving factor XIII replacement, factor XIII activity remained unchanged and the patient continued to bleed. Thereafter, a cross-mixing test was performed and the patient was diagnosed with autoimmune acquired factor XIII deficiency. Cortical steroids were administered to remove the factor XIII inhibitor. Steroid administration showed a rapid increase in factor XIII activity, and bleeding symptoms were no longer observed. In cases of serious bleeding of unknown cause with a normal coagulation profile, acquired factor XIII deficiency should be suspected and factor XIII activity measured.

Citation: Takashima Y, et al. [A Case of Autoimmune Acquired Factor XIII Deficiency Diagnosed from Recurrent Postoperative Bleeding]. [A Case of Autoimmune Acquired Factor XIII Deficiency Diagnosed from Recurrent Postoperative Bleeding]. 2023; 69:169-173. doi: 10.14989/ActaUrolJap_69_6_169

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37460281/
