PMID: 37460237
Title: Demographic and Clinical Characteristics of Patients With Cervical Spine Degeneration Reveal Frequent Cervicolumbar Tandem Spinal Stenosis in Mexico.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Limited literature exists regarding the differences in demographics, causes, comorbidities, presentation, and structural changes associated with cervical spine degeneration in patients from distinct geographic regions. The authors aimed to evaluate the demographic and clinical characteristics of patients with cervical spine degeneration admitted to a single center in Mexico.
METHODS: This study enrolled patients with degenerative disease of the cervical spine. Clinical data were retrieved from medical records and retrospectively characterized.
RESULTS: A total of 50 patients with cervical spine degeneration were included in the analysis. Of these, 26% were men with a median age of 54 years. Hypertension, depression, anxiety, obesity, and alcohol consumption were presented in about a quarter of the participants. In addition, we observed hypertriglyceridemia and hypercholesterolemia in 72% and 46% of participants, respectively. The median duration of symptoms was 11 months, including radicular arm/neck pain (80%), tingling (80%), reduced muscle strength (48%), and gait disturbances (48%). Forty percent of patients had 2 cervical segments radiologically involved, mainly at C5-C6, with changes such as disc herniation (88%), foraminal stenosis with nerve root compression (67%), reduced spinal canal-to-vertebral body ratio (38%), and ligamentum flavum hypertrophy (24%). Also, 22% of patients showed degenerative cervical myelopathy. Strikingly, 48% of enrolled individuals showed cervicolumbar tandem spinal stenosis, mainly in L4-L5 and L5-S1, who were generally older, had a longer duration of symptoms, and had a higher comorbidity burden, including hyperglycemia, hypertension, and depression.
CONCLUSIONS: The demographic and clinical characteristics of degenerative cervical spine disease in Mexico differ with respect to other geographical regions by a younger age of diagnosis, a high frequency of cardiovascular, metabolic, and mental health comorbidities, and an increased prevalence of concomitant lumbar spinal stenosis.
CLINICAL RELEVANCE: Our findings reveal a considerably high burden of cervicolumbar tandem spinal stenosis as a distinctive feature of Mexican patients with cervical spine degeneration.

Citation: Guadarrama-Ortiz P, et al. Demographic and Clinical Characteristics of Patients With Cervical Spine Degeneration Reveal Frequent Cervicolumbar Tandem Spinal Stenosis in Mexico. Demographic and Clinical Characteristics of Patients With Cervical Spine Degeneration Reveal Frequent Cervicolumbar Tandem Spinal Stenosis in Mexico. 2023; 17:670-677. doi: 10.14444/8520

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37460237/
