PMID: 37479028
Title: Complications of Cervical Endoscopic Spinal Surgery: A Systematic Review and Narrative Analysis.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: There are no systematic evidence-based medical data on the complications of endoscopic cervical spinal surgery. This narrative analysis compiled data from various studies that examined endoscopic complications, such as cervical disc herniation and foraminal stenosis. This study aimed to investigate the efficacy and safety of endoscopic surgery in cervical radiculopathy.
METHODS: We searched the PubMed/MEDLINE databases to identify articles on endoscopic spinal surgery, and keywords were set as "endoscopic cervical spinal surgery", "endoscopic cervical discectomy", "endoscopic cervical foraminotomy", and "percutaneous endoscopic cervical discectomy". We analyzed the evidence level and classified the prescribed complications according to the literature. Endoscopic cervical surgery was divided into three categories: full endoscopic anterior, endoscopic posterior, and unilateral biportal approaches. We excluded duplicate publications, studies without full text, studies without complications or incomplete information, and studies that did not provide the necessary data for extraction, animal experiments, or reviews.
RESULTS: Difficulties in swallowing, hematoma, and hoarseness are common complications associated with the anterior cervical approach. In contrast, complications of the posterior approach include nerve root injury, hematoma, and dysesthesia. However, endoscopic cervical spinal surgery, including the full endoscopic anterior, posterior, and unilateral biportal approaches, is a safe and effective treatment for cervical radiculopathy.
CONCLUSIONS: Complications of full endoscopic cervical spinal surgery differ significantly depending on the anterior and posterior approaches. In the anterior approach, swallowing difficulty, recurrent disc, hematoma, and dysphonia are the common complications. In contrast, transient dysesthesia, dural tears, upper limb motor deficits, and persistent arm pain are commonly reported with the posterior approach.

Citation: Ju CI, et al. Complications of Cervical Endoscopic Spinal Surgery: A Systematic Review and Narrative Analysis. Complications of Cervical Endoscopic Spinal Surgery: A Systematic Review and Narrative Analysis. 2023; 178:330-339. doi: 10.1016/j.wneu.2023.07.058

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37479028/
