PMID: 37476369
Title: Intracranial Stenosis Treated with Stenting in Patients with Suspected Cerebral Vasculitis: Two Case Reports.

Abstract: Central nervous system vasculitis (CNSV) is an uncommon and poorly understood form of vasculitis. Early recognition is important because medical treatment might improve the outcome. However, randomized clinical trials on CNSV treatment do not exist. Endovascular treatment has been reported in few cases, but no data exist for intracranial stenting. We report 2 cases of patients with suspected CNSV and recurrent clinical episodes, treated with intracranial stenting. A 48-year-old man had relapsing episodes of right hemiparesis. Neuroradiological exams showed severe left carotid terminus stenosis. Despite immunosuppressive therapy, neuroradiological follow-up exams showed a worsening of the aforementioned stenosis with many transient episodes of weakness in the right limbs and aphasia. A 64-year-old woman had a sudden onset of dysarthria and transient aphasia. Neuroradiological exams showed a severe arterial stenosis involving the origin of left anterior cerebral artery and middle cerebral artery (MCA). Despite dual antiplatelet therapy, she presented an acute onset of severe aphasia, due to an occlusion of the left carotid terminus and proximal MCA. In both cases, endovascular procedure and intracranial stenting was performed, with marked improvement of cerebral blood flow. No more clinical episodes were reported. Intracranial stenting may be a valid therapeutic option in selected patients with CNSV and involvement of medium or large size vessels with clinical worsening despite best medical treatment.

Citation: Vandelli G, et al. Intracranial Stenosis Treated with Stenting in Patients with Suspected Cerebral Vasculitis: Two Case Reports. Intracranial Stenosis Treated with Stenting in Patients with Suspected Cerebral Vasculitis: Two Case Reports. 2023; 15:100-107. doi: 10.1159/000529942

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37476369/
