PMID: 37479146
Title: Operative Management of Complications Following Intestinal Vaginoplasty: A Case Series and Systematic Review.

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: To describe the authors' experience with surgical management of complications following intestinal vaginoplasty and review the literature on incidence of complications following gender-affirming intestinal vaginoplasty.
METHODS: Retrospective chart review identified patients presenting with complications following prior intestinal vaginoplasty requiring operative management. Charts were analyzed for medical history, preoperative exam and imaging, intraoperative technique, and long-term outcomes. Systematic literature review was performed to identify primary research on complications following gender-affirming intestinal vaginoplasty.
RESULTS: Four patients presented to the senior authors' clinic requiring operative intervention for complications following intestinal vaginoplasty, all of whom underwent surgical revision. Complications included vaginal stenosis (2 patients, 50%), vaginal false passage (1 patient, 25%), and diversion colitis (1 patient, 25%). Postoperatively all patients were able to dilate successfully to a depth of at least 15 cm. Systematic review identified 10 studies meeting inclusion criteria. There were 215 complications reported across 654 vaginoplasties (33% overall complication rate). Average return to operating room rate was 18%. The most common complications were stenosis (11%), mucorrhea (7%), vaginal prolapse (6%), and malodor (5%). Six intestinal vaginoplasty segments developed vascular compromise leading to flap loss. There were 2 reported mortalities.
CONCLUSION: Intestinal vaginoplasty is associated with a range of complications including vaginal stenosis, mucorrhea, and vaginal prolapse. Intra-abdominal complications, including diversion colitis, anastomotic bowel leak, and intra-abdominal abscess can occur many years after surgery, be life-threatening and require prompt diagnosis and management.

Citation: Robinson IS, et al. Operative Management of Complications Following Intestinal Vaginoplasty: A Case Series and Systematic Review. Operative Management of Complications Following Intestinal Vaginoplasty: A Case Series and Systematic Review. 2023; 180:105-112. doi: 10.1016/j.urology.2023.07.005

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37479146/
