PMID: 37478637
Title: Conduction Disturbance After Transcatheter Aortic Valve Implantation With Self- or Balloon-Expandable Valve According to the Implantation Depth.

Abstract: Membranous septum (MS) length, in conjunction with implantation depth (ID), is known as a determinant of conduction disturbance (CD) after transcatheter aortic valve implantation (TAVI). However, its impact might be dissimilar among valve types because each valve has a different platform. This study sought to investigate the different impacts of ID and MS length on the new-onset CD between ACURATE neo and SAPIEN 3. This study included patients without a previous permanent pacemaker implantation who underwent TAVI with ACURATE neo and SAPIEN 3 and divided them into 2 groups based on the ID according to MS length (deep and shallow implantation group). Deep implantation was defined as transcatheter heart valve implantation deeper than MS length. The primary endpoint was new-onset CD (new permanent pacemaker implantation or new-onset complete left bundle branch block). A total of 688 patients (deep implantation: n = 373, shallow implantation: n = 315) were identified as a study cohort. New-onset CD developed more frequently in the deep implantation group (16.6% vs 7.0%; p = 0.0001). Deep implantation was revealed as a predictor of new-onset CD. Moreover, deep implantation was significantly associated with new-onset CD after SAPIEN 3 implantation but not after ACURATE neo. Among patients with MS shorter than 2 mm, ACURATE neo was superior in terms of avoiding new-onset CD. In conclusion, the deep implantation was associated with new-onset CD after TAVI with SAPIEN 3 but not with ACURATE neo. These results may impact device selection in patients with a preexisting high risk of CD.

Citation: Miyashita H, et al. Conduction Disturbance After Transcatheter Aortic Valve Implantation With Self- or Balloon-Expandable Valve According to the Implantation Depth. Conduction Disturbance After Transcatheter Aortic Valve Implantation With Self- or Balloon-Expandable Valve According to the Implantation Depth. 2023; 203:17-22. doi: 10.1016/j.amjcard.2023.05.025

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37478637/
