PMID: 37478713
Title: Unsteady blood flow of Carreau fluid in a porous saturated medium with stenosis under the influence of acceleration and magnetic fields: A comprehensive analysis.

Abstract: Blood flow in stenosed arteries is a common cause of cardiovascular diseases, leading to serious health problems. The present study aims to investigate the unsteady Womersley blood flow in a stenosed, porous saturated artery under the influence of acceleration and magnetic fields. The study utilizes a Carreau constitutive equation to model blood rheology and employs the finite difference technique to compute the governing equations under the assumption of unsteady, unidirectional, and laminar flow. The importance of this study lies in its potential to provide a better understanding of the complex behavior of hemodynamic flow in the presence of external fields and porous media, which has significant implications for the control and management of cardiovascular diseases. In particular, the study analyses the impacts of non-dimensional parameters, such as magnetic field, channel permeability, acceleration field, Weissenberg number, and stenosis amplitude, on critical flow variables, such as velocity, resistivity, wall shear stress, and flow rate. Our calculations suggest that a magnetic field is an effective instrument for regulating hemodynamic flow because it increases resistance by up to 8.31% while decreasing flow by up to 8.44%. Channel permeability, on the other hand, improves blood velocity by up to 33.35% while eliminating resistance by up to 23.43%. Furthermore, greater acceleration fields decrease resistivity while increasing velocity, flow rate, and wall shear stress. Additionally, the severity of the stenosis and the Weissenberg number substantially affect flow factors. By raising the stenosis amplitude, resistivity rises, and other flow characteristics diminish, whereas modifying the Weissenberg number causes the reverse effect.

Citation: Fahim M, et al. Unsteady blood flow of Carreau fluid in a porous saturated medium with stenosis under the influence of acceleration and magnetic fields: A comprehensive analysis. Unsteady blood flow of Carreau fluid in a porous saturated medium with stenosis under the influence of acceleration and magnetic fields: A comprehensive analysis. 2023; 164:107278. doi: 10.1016/j.compbiomed.2023.107278

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37478713/
