PMID: 37485264
Title: Characterization of ultrasound and postnatal pathology in fetuses with heterotaxy syndrome.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: To explore the diagnostic clues and abnormality spectrum of heterotaxy syndrome by prenatal ultrasonography and postnatal verification.
METHODS: The prenatal ultrasonic data of 88 heterotaxy syndrome fetuses were analyzed retrospectively as left isomerism (LI) and right isomerism (RI). Prenatal ultrasound compared with the anatomical casting of the fetal body after labor induction, and the confirmatory postnatal diagnosis after delivery.
RESULTS: Fetal LI showed typical malformations of gastric vesicles on different sides from the heart, absence of hepatic segment of the inferior vena cava (IVC), abdominal aorta (AO) parallel with the azygos vein (AV), bilateral left bronchus, bilateral left atrial appendages, and polysplenia; intracardiac malformations of AV septal defects (AVSD), single atrium (SA), left ventricular outflow tract obstruction (LVOTO), and double-outlet right ventricle (DORV); and cardiac conduction abnormalities of sinus bradycardia and AV blockage. Fetal RI reported typical malformations of gastric vesicles on different sides from the heart, juxtaposition of the IVC with AO, anomalous pulmonary venous connection (APVC), asplenia, and bilateral right atrial appendages; intracardiac malformations of AVSD, SA, single ventricle, pulmonary atresia and stenosis, and DORV. The postnatal verification revealed 3 malformations misdiagnoses and 4 malformations missed diagnoses in LI fetuses and 10 misdiagnoses and 8 missed diagnoses in RI fetuses.
CONCLUSIONS: The proposed five-step prenatal ultrasonography has an important diagnostic value for the identification and classification of heterotaxy syndrome. The different sides of gastric vesicles and cardiac apex are important diagnostic clues for heterotaxy syndrome, featuring disconnected or hypoplastic IVC, typical complex cardiac malformation, and atrioventricular block in fetal LI, and shown APVC, juxtaposition of IVC and AO, and intracardiac malformations such as AVSD, DORV, and LVOTO in fetal RI.

Citation: Wu Q, et al. Characterization of ultrasound and postnatal pathology in fetuses with heterotaxy syndrome. Characterization of ultrasound and postnatal pathology in fetuses with heterotaxy syndrome. 2023; 10:1195191. doi: 10.3389/fcvm.2023.1195191

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37485264/
