PMID: 37498386
Title: Deep learning-based reconstruction for acceleration of lumbar spine MRI: a prospective comparison with standard MRI.

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: To compare the image quality and diagnostic performance between standard turbo spin-echo MRI and accelerated MRI with deep learning (DL)-based image reconstruction for degenerative lumbar spine diseases.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Fifty patients who underwent both the standard and accelerated lumbar MRIs at a 1.5-T scanner for degenerative lumbar spine diseases were prospectively enrolled. DL reconstruction algorithm generated coarse (DL_coarse) and fine (DL_fine) images from the accelerated protocol. Image quality was quantitatively assessed in terms of signal-to-noise ratio (SNR) and contrast-to-noise ratio (CNR) and qualitatively assessed using five-point visual scoring systems. The sensitivity and specificity of four radiologists for the diagnosis of degenerative diseases in both protocols were compared.
RESULTS: The accelerated protocol reduced the average MRI acquisition time by 32.3% as compared to the standard protocol. As compared with standard images, DL_coarse and DL_fine showed significantly higher SNRs on T1-weighted images (T1WI; both p < .001) and T2-weighted images (T2WI; p = .002 and p < 0.001), higher CNRs on T1WI (both p < 0.001), and similar CNRs on T2WI (p = .49 and p = .27). The average radiologist assessment of overall image quality for DL_coarse and DL_fine was higher on sagittal T1WI (p = .04 and p < .001) and axial T2WI (p = .006 and p = .01) and similar on sagittal T2WI (p = .90 and p = .91). Both DL_coarse and DL_fine had better image quality of cauda equina and paraspinal muscles on axial T2WI (both p = .04 for cauda equina; p = .008 and p = .002 for paraspinal muscles). Differences in sensitivity and specificity for the detection of central canal stenosis and neural foraminal stenosis between standard and DL-reconstructed images were all statistically nonsignificant (p ≥ 0.05).
CONCLUSION: DL-based protocol reduced MRI acquisition time without degrading image quality and diagnostic performance of readers for degenerative lumbar spine diseases.
CLINICAL RELEVANCE STATEMENT: The deep learning (DL)-based reconstruction algorithm may be used to further accelerate spine MRI imaging to reduce patient discomfort and increase the cost efficiency of spine MRI imaging.
KEY POINTS: • By using deep learning (DL)-based reconstruction algorithm in combination with the accelerated MRI protocol, the average acquisition time was reduced by 32.3% as compared with the standard protocol. • DL-reconstructed images had similar or better quantitative/qualitative overall image quality and similar or better image quality for the delineation of most individual anatomical structures. • The average radiologist's sensitivity and specificity for the detection of major degenerative lumbar spine diseases, including central canal stenosis, neural foraminal stenosis, and disc herniation, on standard and DL-reconstructed images, were similar.

Citation: Yoo H, et al. Deep learning-based reconstruction for acceleration of lumbar spine MRI: a prospective comparison with standard MRI. Deep learning-based reconstruction for acceleration of lumbar spine MRI: a prospective comparison with standard MRI. 2023; 33:8656-8668. doi: 10.1007/s00330-023-09918-0

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37498386/
