PMID: 37491312
Title: Posterior unilateral small fenestration of lamina combined with a custom-made Y-shaped fracture reduction device for the treatment of severe thoracolumbar burst fracture: a prospective comparative study.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: The purpose was to evaluate the clinical effect of a custom-made Y-shaped fracture fragment reduction device and to assist in posterior unilateral small fenestration of lamina to reduce the fracture fragments.
METHODS: In this study, 40 patients were assigned to one of two groups: the traditional reduction device group (TRG) or the Y-shaped reduction device group (YRG). All patients underwent posterior unilateral small fenestration of the lamina and direct decompression through the spinal canal. And the operation time (OT), intraoperative bleeding (IB), preoperative, postoperative, and final follow-up data on the spinal stenosis rate (SSR), Cobb angle, the anterior compression ratio of injured vertebrae (ACRIV), and ASIA neurological function grade were compared between the two groups.
RESULT: There were no complications, including vascular and nerve injury, serious postoperative infection, internal fixation fracture, or loosening, for any of the patients. And the average follow-up time of the two groups was 14.2 months, the average operation time of the TRG was 236.6 min, and the average intraoperative blood loss was 357.20 ml. Moreover, the average operation time of the YRG was 190.6 min, and the average intraoperative blood loss was 241.5 ml. There were significant differences between the two groups in terms of operation duration and intraoperative blood loss. The YRG's was lower than that of the TRG. Besides, there was no difference in SSR, Cobb angle, ACRIV, or neurological recovery between the two groups before or immediately after the operation or at the last follow-up.
CONCLUSION: The Y-shaped fracture reduction device can reduce the fracture fragments and the OT and IB stably; it also has satisfactory postoperative curative effects and clinical utility.

Citation: Zeng Z, et al. Posterior unilateral small fenestration of lamina combined with a custom-made Y-shaped fracture reduction device for the treatment of severe thoracolumbar burst fracture: a prospective comparative study. Posterior unilateral small fenestration of lamina combined with a custom-made Y-shaped fracture reduction device for the treatment of severe thoracolumbar burst fracture: a prospective comparative study. 2023; 18:529. doi: 10.1186/s13018-023-03971-7

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37491312/
