PMID: 37499352
Title: Chronic lymphedema reversal following arteriovenous fistula takedown: A case report.

Abstract: INTRODUCTION AND IMPORTANCE: Lymphedema is a very rare complication of Arteriovenous Fistula. The commonly encountered complications following the arteriovenous fistula are thrombosis, stenosis, congestive heart failure, ischemic neuropathy, steal syndrome, aneurysm and infection. Hence, presence of Lymphedema is a rarity that must be managed vigilantly. The incidence of lymphedema following AV fistula is very rare. Presently there is lack of studies evaluating the outcome of fistula take down. The standard care for lymphedema is complex decongestive physiotherapy in most of other causes bur Fistula Take down also helps in reducing the swelling in our case.
CASE PRESENTATION: Our case is of 53 years female presented to the surgical OPD with left upper limb swelling 5 months back which was non-pitting in nature. She was a known case of Acute kidney injury with no history of other comorbidities. The swelling started about 1 year ago involving the upper parts of the left arm which was intermittent and relieved spontaneously. She has a history of brachiocephalic fistula insertion for hemodialysis access 4 years ago with diagnosis of Acute Kidney Injury. However, the fistula was never used because of patient recovering from medical management. Investigations performed were doppler and other routine tests.
CLINICAL DISCUSSION: The fistula was patent on examination confirmed by venous hum on auscultation. Fistula takedown surgery was planned after ruling out thrombosis and stenosis using doppler. Other alternatives were not considered because of lack of use of fistula. The swelling started to improve postoperatively and the patient was discharged.
CONCLUSION: Our Case report highlights the fact that the rare complication like lymphedema could occur after the arteriovenous fistula which could be managed by fistula take down surgery if the fistula is no longer in use. Though very rare lymphedema should be kept in differential for complication which can be diagnosed by examination and ruling out other causes.

Citation: Jaiswal LS, et al. Chronic lymphedema reversal following arteriovenous fistula takedown: A case report. Chronic lymphedema reversal following arteriovenous fistula takedown: A case report. 2023; 109:108519. doi: 10.1016/j.ijscr.2023.108519

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37499352/
