PMID: 37502380
Title: Endovascular Treatment of Intracranial Hypertension Associated with Venous Sinus Stenosis due to Tumor Compression.

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: We report a patient with intracranial hypertension associated with venous sinus stenosis due to tumor compression. Embolization of tumor feeding blood vessels reduced the tumor volume, improved venous sinus stenosis, and alleviated the symptoms of intracranial hypertension.
CASE PRESENTATION: The patient was a 46-year-old woman with chronic headache and blurred vision. Magnetic resonance venography (MRV) revealed stenosis of the right transverse-sigmoid sinus. Intracranial hypertension was diagnosed by lumbar puncture. A high-intensity 2-cm tumor was detected on T2-weighted magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), and the homogenously enhanced tumor was adjacent to the right transverse-sigmoid sinus. Cerebral angiography demonstrated tumor staining mainly from the right occipital artery (OA). Collateral venous flow was minimal. In such cases, resection and reconstruction of the involved sinus segment have a high risk of venous infarction. Accordingly, percutaneous transluminal angioplasty (PTA) was performed, but dilation of the stenosis was poor. Thus, feeder occlusion of the tumor was added and lumboperitoneal (LP) shunt was placed, alleviating the headache and blurred vision. Ten months later, reduction of the tumor volume and improvement of sinus stenosis were observed, and the LP-shunt system was removed. A decrease in tumor volume via feeder occlusion may lead to partial sinus decompression and increased venous flow, resulting in long-term clinical remission.
CONCLUSION: Transverse-sigmoid sinus stenosis can be a cause of intracranial hypertension, albeit rare. Embolization of the tumor is considered to be a treatment option for patients who cannot undergo resection.

Citation: Mizuhashi S and Kohyama S. Endovascular Treatment of Intracranial Hypertension Associated with Venous Sinus Stenosis due to Tumor Compression. Endovascular Treatment of Intracranial Hypertension Associated with Venous Sinus Stenosis due to Tumor Compression. 2020; 14:14-21. doi: 10.5797/jnet.cr.2019-0076

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37502380/
