PMID: 37502347
Title: Successful Leptomeningeal Enhancement in a Patient with Tandem Occlusion of a Carotid and Middle Cerebral Artery Following Carotid Artery Stenting for Contralateral Carotid Artery Stenosis.

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: Although the presence of leptomeningeal anastomosis is known as a predictor of favorable outcome in patients with acute large vessel occlusion, the efficacy of enhancing leptomeningeal collateral flow has rarely been demonstrated.
CASE PRESENTATION: A 73-year-old man previously diagnosed with asymptomatic bilateral carotid stenosis was admitted to our emergency department 2 hours after the onset of fluctuating symptoms, including aphasia, left conjugate deviation, and right hemiparesis. CT demonstrated no hemorrhagic lesion. Considering the history of the patient, emergent angiography was performed and demonstrated tandem occlusion of the left cervical internal carotid artery (ICA) with left common carotid injection, leptomeningeal flow compensating for distal territory of occluded segment of left middle cerebral artery (MCA) via the left anterior cerebral artery through severe cervical ICA stenosis with right common carotid injection, and the proximal segment of the left MCA through the posterior communicating artery and occlusion of the M2 segment with left vertebral injection. Given the results of angiography and fluctuating symptoms, hemodynamic insufficiency was considered the underlying stroke mechanism for this case. Although recanalization of tandem lesions was initially considered, the risk of distal clot migration was a concern, so the patient underwent right carotid artery stenting (CAS) to enhance leptomeningeal collateral flow. This resulted in immediate resolution of symptoms after right CAS.
CONCLUSION: Stenting for carotid artery stenosis contralateral to tandem occlusive lesion may offer an effective alternative when both Willisian and leptomeningeal collaterals are robust.

Citation: Kojima D, et al. Successful Leptomeningeal Enhancement in a Patient with Tandem Occlusion of a Carotid and Middle Cerebral Artery Following Carotid Artery Stenting for Contralateral Carotid Artery Stenosis. Successful Leptomeningeal Enhancement in a Patient with Tandem Occlusion of a Carotid and Middle Cerebral Artery Following Carotid Artery Stenting for Contralateral Carotid Artery Stenosis. 2022; 16:381-386. doi: 10.5797/jnet.cr.2021-0081

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37502347/
