PMID: 37501651
Title: The Role of Postoperative Nasal Stents in Cleft Rhinoplasty: A Systematic Review.

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the role of postoperative nasal stenting in preserving nasal shape and preventing nostril stenosis in cleft rhinoplasty, and to develop a classification system for postoperative nasal stents.
DESIGN: Systematic review.
METHODS: Electronic and manual searches of scientific literature were conducted from 3 databases (PubMed, SCOPUS, OVID). Primary evidence that described postoperative nasal stenting in cleft rhinoplasty were included. Exclusion criteria included secondary evidence, non-English articles, and studies focusing on preoperative nasal stents.
PATIENTS AND PARTICIPANTS: Patients with cleft lip/nose of any type were included.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE(S): Role in preservation of nasal shape & symmetry, role in prevention of nostril stenosis, complications with the use of postoperative nasal stent.
RESULTS: Of the 13 articles, 9 papers described the preservation of nasal shape with nasal stents and three studies with a control group showed improved symmetry score. No studies evaluated the prevention of nostril stenosis; however, 2 studies reported improvement of nostril stenosis in secondary cleft rhinoplasty. The results of the included studies had significant heterogeneity. Nasal stents were classified into five types: Type I-spare parts assembled, Type II-prefabricated commercial, Type IIIa-patient specific 3D-printed static, Type IIIb-patient specific dynamic, and Type IV-internal absorbable. Total complications were 6.0%, including irritation (0.9%), infection (0.3%), and stent loss (4.6%).
CONCLUSION: Despite the lack of consensus with postoperative nasal stents, this review suggests its safety and role in preserving shape and improving stenosis. Our classification system highlights variability and the need for better quality studies to determine the efficacy of nasal stents.

Citation: Nguyen DC, et al. The Role of Postoperative Nasal Stents in Cleft Rhinoplasty: A Systematic Review. The Role of Postoperative Nasal Stents in Cleft Rhinoplasty: A Systematic Review. 2024; 61:1941-1950. doi: 10.1177/10556656231190703

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37501651/
