PMID: 37502447
Title: The Case of a Patient with Idiopathic Intracranial Hypertension Who Required Additional Stenting for Stent-Adjacent Stenosis.

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: We report the case of a patient with recurred idiopathic intracranial hypertension (IIH) with transverse sinus (TS) stenosis after initial stenting, which was treated with additional stent placed in tandem to the secondarily occurred stent-adjacent stenosis (SAS).
CASE PRESENTATION: A 41-year-old woman complained of reduced visual acuity and blurred vision, and presented with papilledema. Lumbar puncture revealed an opening pressure of 36 cmH<sub>2</sub>O. MRI revealed no space-occupying lesions, and the patient was diagnosed with IIH based on the modified Dandy criteria. MR venography revealed stenosis in the right and hypoplastic left TS. The patient complained of headache and neck pain after each lumbar puncture for examination. Venous sinus stenting (VSS) was performed in the right TS. One month after stenting, follow-up angiography revealed stenosis in the remaining parts of TS. Five months after stenting, IIH recurred, and SAS was detected on angiography. An additional stenting procedure was performed. Three months after the second treatment, her symptoms disappeared and cerebrospinal fluid pressure was normalized.
CONCLUSION: Patients with post-VSS recurrent IIH may develop restenosis in the remaining parts of TS at variable progression speeds. In this case, angiography revealed gradually advancing stenosis that seemed to form SAS at the time of recurrence. If the initial VSS is effective for IIH, SAS can also be treated effectively and less invasively with a second stent placement covering the entire TS length.

Citation: Uesugi S, et al. The Case of a Patient with Idiopathic Intracranial Hypertension Who Required Additional Stenting for Stent-Adjacent Stenosis. The Case of a Patient with Idiopathic Intracranial Hypertension Who Required Additional Stenting for Stent-Adjacent Stenosis. 2022; 16:211-217. doi: 10.5797/jnet.cr.2021-0073

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37502447/
