PMID: 37501740
Title: Folding Deformation of Open-Cell Stents in Carotid Artery Stenting: Report of Three Cases and Review of Literature.

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: We describe 3 cases with folding deformation of a PRECISE (Cordis, Miami, FL, USA) stent in carotid artery stenting (CAS).
CASE PRESENTATIONS: The 3 cases with cervical carotid stenosis consisted of 3 males around 80 years old and included 2 symptomatic lesions. During CAS, distal embolic protection was established using a Mo.Ma (Medtronic, Minneapolis, MN, USA) along with a filter device in 2 cases and an Optimo (Tokai Medical Products, Aichi, Japan) along with a filter device in 1 case. For the filter device, either FilterWire EZ (Boston Scientific, Natick, MA, USA) or Spider FX (Covidien, Irvine, CA, USA) was employed. In all cases, a PRECISE stent was deployed after pre-dilation performed using a percutaneous transluminal angioplasty (PTA) balloon with the diameter of 2.5 to 3 mm. Post-dilation was performed after the stent deployment using a PTA balloon whose diameter was about 80% of that of the normal distal internal carotid artery. In all cases, cone-beam CT taken after the deployment of a stent showed folding deformation of the stent. In 2 cases, heavily calcified plaque hampered self-expansion of the stent, which resulted in the stent deformation. On the other hand, in the remaining 1 case, a distal shaft of the Mo.Ma caused the stent deformation, which was likely accelerated by head rotation and cervical compression that was performed to resolve difficulties for a filter retrieval device to pass through the stent, and post-dilation after the stenting.
CONCLUSION: Heavily calcified plaque and a distal shaft of a Mo.Ma would result in stent deformation.

Citation: Ichikawa T, et al. Folding Deformation of Open-Cell Stents in Carotid Artery Stenting: Report of Three Cases and Review of Literature. Folding Deformation of Open-Cell Stents in Carotid Artery Stenting: Report of Three Cases and Review of Literature. 2022; 16:570-575. doi: 10.5797/jnet.cr.2022-0028

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37501740/
