PMID: 37505178
Title: Unilateral bi-portal endoscopy for the treatment of thalassemia with extramedullary hematopoietic compression of the spinal cord: Two case reports.

Abstract: RATIONALE: Thalassemia combined with extramedullary hematopoietic spinal cord compression is extremely rare; its ideal treatment is still controversial. Herein, we present 2 cases of thalassemia combined with extramedullary hematopoietic compression of the spinal cord wherein satisfactory results were obtained using unilateral bi-portal endoscopy (UBE).
PATIENT CONCERNS: Case 1 was of a 43-year-old male who presented with a chief complaint of numbness of the left lower limb since 1-month. Case 2 involved a 23-year-old male who was admitted to the hospital with a chief complaint of numbness in both toes since 3 months and walking instability since 2 weeks. Both cases had a history of being diagnosed with thalassemia.
DIAGNOSES: Computed tomography and magnetic resonance imaging showed spinal canal space-occupying lesions causing dural compression and spinal stenosis. Postoperative pathology confirmed the spinal canal lesions to be extramedullary hematopoietic tissue.
INTERVENTIONS: For spinal canal decompression, UBE supplemented by blood transfusion was performed for both cases.
OUTCOMES: All preoperative symptoms were relieved postoperatively; no recurrence was noted at the 6-month follow-up.
LESSONS: Thalassemia combined with extramedullary hematopoiesis can lead to acute spinal cord compression. UBE significantly relieves spinal stenosis symptoms; furthermore, UBE combined with blood transfusion for spinal canal extramedullary hematopoiesis gives satisfactory results, is safe, and has a low risk of spinal cord injury.

Citation: Lin J, et al. Unilateral bi-portal endoscopy for the treatment of thalassemia with extramedullary hematopoietic compression of the spinal cord: Two case reports. Unilateral bi-portal endoscopy for the treatment of thalassemia with extramedullary hematopoietic compression of the spinal cord: Two case reports. 2023; 102:e34136. doi: 10.1097/MD.0000000000034136

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37505178/
