PMID: 37502799
Title: Postcontrast CT to Estimate Arteriosclerotic Stenosis at the Site of Occlusion before Emergency Endovascular Treatment for Vertebral-Basilar Artery Occlusion.

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: Thrombectomy may be an effective therapy for vertebrobasilar artery (VBA) occlusion in addition to carotid or middle cerebral artery occlusion. Underlying arterial stenosis can be a cause of failure in thrombectomy; however, it is difficult to identify candidates with VBA occlusion before thrombectomy. The purpose of our study was to investigate whether postcontrast computed tomography (pcCT) is useful for identifying candidates with VBA occlusion for thrombectomy.
METHODS: In this retrospective study, we included patients who 1) were admitted to our institution between January 1, 2013, and July 1, 2019; 2) underwent pcCT; and 3) underwent emergency endovascular therapy for VBA occlusion. We defined no opacification of the top of the basilar artery (BA) in reconstructed coronal images of pcCT scans as distal BA occlusion and opacification of the top of the BA as distal BA open. We assessed the presence of underlying arterial stenosis at the site of occlusion according to angiographic findings during endovascular procedures. We also evaluated the relationship between the distal BA findings and the presence of underlying arterial stenosis.
RESULTS: Thirty-two patients met our inclusion criteria and were analyzed. Among 19 patients with distal BA occlusion, none (0%) had ischemic stroke with underlying arterial stenosis. Among 13 patients with distal BA open, 4 (31%) were diagnosed with ischemic stroke without underlying arterial stenosis and 9 (69%) with underlying arterial stenosis (p <0.001).
CONCLUSION: Distal basilar-artery findings in reconstructed coronal postcontrast CT images were useful for identifying candidates with VBA occlusion for thrombectomy.

Citation: Yoshioka K and Mori T. Postcontrast CT to Estimate Arteriosclerotic Stenosis at the Site of Occlusion before Emergency Endovascular Treatment for Vertebral-Basilar Artery Occlusion. Postcontrast CT to Estimate Arteriosclerotic Stenosis at the Site of Occlusion before Emergency Endovascular Treatment for Vertebral-Basilar Artery Occlusion. 2021; 15:77-85. doi: 10.5797/jnet.oa.2019-0095

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37502799/
