PMID: 37510714
Title: Echocardiographic Parameters for Risk Prediction in Borderline Right Ventricle: Review with Special Emphasis on Pulmonary Atresia with Intact Ventricular Septum and Critical Pulmonary Stenosis.

Abstract: The aim of the present review is to highlight the strengths and limitations of echocardiographic parameters and scores employed to predict favorable outcome in complex congenital heart diseases (CHDs) with borderline right ventricle (RV), with a focus on pulmonary atresia with intact ventricular septum and critical pulmonary stenosis (PAIVS/CPS). A systematic search in the National Library of Medicine using Medical Subject Headings and free-text terms including echocardiography, CHD, and scores, was performed. The search was refined by adding keywords "PAIVS/CPS", Ebstein's anomaly, and unbalanced atrioventricular septal defect with left dominance. A total of 22 studies were selected for final analysis; 12 of them were focused on parameters to predict biventricular repair (BVR)/pulmonary blood flow augmentation in PAIVS/CPS. All of these studies presented numerical (the limited sample size) and methodological limitations (retrospective design, poor definition of inclusion/exclusion criteria, variability in the definition of outcomes, differences in adopted surgical and interventional strategies). There was heterogeneity in the echocardiographic parameters employed and cut-off values proposed, with difficultly in establishing which one should be recommended. Easy scores such as TV/MV (tricuspid/mitral valve) and RV/LV (right/left ventricle) ratios were proven to have a good prognostic accuracy; however, the data were very limited (only two studies with <40 subjects). In larger studies, RV end-diastolic area and a higher degree of tricuspid regurgitation were also proven as accurate predictors of successful BVR. These measures, however, may be either operator and/or load/pressure dependent. TV Z-scores have been proposed by several authors, but old and heterogenous nomograms sources have been employed, thus producing discordant results. In summary, we provide a review of the currently available echocardiographic parameters for risk prediction in CHDs with a diminutive RV that may serve as a guide for use in clinical practice.

Citation: Cantinotti M, et al. Echocardiographic Parameters for Risk Prediction in Borderline Right Ventricle: Review with Special Emphasis on Pulmonary Atresia with Intact Ventricular Septum and Critical Pulmonary Stenosis. Echocardiographic Parameters for Risk Prediction in Borderline Right Ventricle: Review with Special Emphasis on Pulmonary Atresia with Intact Ventricular Septum and Critical Pulmonary Stenosis. 2023; 12:(unknown pages). doi: 10.3390/jcm12144599

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37510714/
