PMID: 37512025
Title: Pulmonary Valve Endocarditis during and beyond Euro ENDO Registry: A Single Center Case Series.

Abstract: Background: Pulmonary valve infective endocarditis (PVIE) is a rare form of infective endocarditis (IE) and is associated with high mortality and severe complications. Guidelines for treatment of this form of IE are scarce and based on general recommendations. We report a case series of PVE. Detailed Case Description: Case 1-A 36-year-old female with congenital pulmonary artery stenosis, dyspnea and leg edema symptoms for 2 months. Blood cultures yielded Staphylococcus spp. and Corynebacterium sp., and echocardiography revealed multiple floating vegetation at the pulmonic valve and surrounding structures. The clinical course was complicated with sepsis and multi-organ failure. Urgent surgery with pulmonary homograft implantation resulted in successful five-year outcome. Case 2-In a 38-year-old male with previous tetralogy of Fallot correction and symptoms of fatigue, fever, myalgia, and photophobia, echocardiography was suggestive of PVIE. The clinical course was complicated with septic shock, multi-organ failure, ischemic stroke with hemorrhagic transformation and death on the 12th day of hospitalization. Case 3-A 41-year-old male without previous medical history was hospitalized due to prolonged fatigue, fever, dyspnea, and leg edema. He was diagnosed with multi-valve infective endocarditis, affecting the aortic, tricuspid, and pulmonary valve. Acute heart failure and hemodynamic instability indicated urgent surgery with aortic valve replacement and reconstruction of the tricuspid and pulmonary valves. At four-year follow up he was doing well. Conclusion: Symptoms in PVIE may be versatile, and diagnosis is often delayed. High level of suspicion, early recognition, and echocardiography are cornerstones in diagnostics. Despite the standpoint that medical therapy is first-line, the role of surgery needs to be advocated in particular cases.

Citation: Srdanović I, et al. Pulmonary Valve Endocarditis during and beyond Euro ENDO Registry: A Single Center Case Series. Pulmonary Valve Endocarditis during and beyond Euro ENDO Registry: A Single Center Case Series. 2023; 59:(unknown pages). doi: 10.3390/medicina59071213

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37512025/
