PMID: 37517251
Title: Case report and analysis of the literature on sarcomatous mesothelioma of the left atrium.

Abstract: INTRODUCTION AND IMPORTANCE: Primary intracardiac malignant mesothelioma is an extremely uncommon condition with a terrible prognosis. Because of its rarity, there have been extremely few examples described in the literature.
CASE PRESENTATION: We are reporting the instance of a 44-year-old lady who was referred to the department of cardiology for worsening dyspnea, palpitations, and a recent syncopal episode. On examination, the patient had signs of global heart failure. Cardiac imaging showed a tissue mass infiltrating the atrioventricular sulcus at the mitral valve level, responsible for severe mitral stenosis. Pleural effusion without an intrapleural mass was also noted. Urgent surgery was performed, including excision of the tumor mass, mechanical replacement of the mitral valve, and tricuspid plasty. The anatomo-pathological study concluded in cardiac mesothelioma. The patient was transferred back to the cardiology department 9 months after surgery due to severe left heart failure. TTE and TOE were performed and revealed tumor recurrence responsible for severe mitral stenosis. The course was marked by the onset of cardiogenic shock refractory to treatment, followed by the death of the patient. The case we are reporting seems to be the initial instance documented as exclusively primary intracardiac mesothelioma especially its lack of association with any other pleural sarcomatoid mesothelioma or asbestos exposure.
CLINICAL DISCUSSION: In cases where a large atrial tumor is present, prompt surgical intervention is recommended to mitigate the risk of catastrophic embolization or valve orifice obstruction. The objective of surgical intervention is to excise the entire neoplasm with sufficient surrounding tissue, a feat that is infrequently achievable. Palliative debulking may be a beneficial intervention for patients who do not necessitate complete resection, particularly those experiencing relevant or rapidly escalating symptoms. Cardiac transplantation remains a viable option in the event of an unresectable malignant tumor.
CONCLUSION: The short-term prognosis is poor. Surgical treatment remains the best treatment for this type of tumor. Total excision should be considered, but may not be feasible in all cases. Adjuvant chemotherapy may be considered.

Citation: Rouabeh W, et al. Case report and analysis of the literature on sarcomatous mesothelioma of the left atrium. Case report and analysis of the literature on sarcomatous mesothelioma of the left atrium. 2023; 109:108537. doi: 10.1016/j.ijscr.2023.108537

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37517251/
