PMID: 37517131
Title: Effect of Edoxaban Versus Antiplatelet Therapy on Leaflet Thrombosis and Cerebral Thromboembolism After TAVI According to Major Clinical and Anatomic Factors in Prespecified Subgroup Analysis from the ADAPT-TAVR Trial.

Abstract: It is unknown whether edoxaban versus dual antiplatelet therapy (DAPT) has differential treatment effects on leaflet thrombosis, cerebral thromboembolism, and neurologic or neurocognitive dysfunction according to clinical and anatomic factors after transcatheter aortic valve implantation. To investigate the relative effects of edoxaban and DAPT on leaflet and cerebral thromboembolism in patients with major risk factors. The primary end point of this study was the incidence of leaflet thrombosis on computed tomography at 6 months. The secondary end points were new cerebral lesions on brain magnetic resonance imaging and neurologic and neurocognitive dysfunction between baseline and 6-month follow-up. Cox regression models assessed the consistency of the treatment effects in the prespecified subgroups. The favorable effect of edoxaban versus DAPT on the leaflet thrombosis was consistent across multiple clinical or anatomic subgroups, without significant interaction between the drug effect and each subgroup (p for interaction for age = 0.597, gender = 0.557, body mass index = 0.866, Society of Thoracic Surgeons score = 0.307, valve type = 0.702, edoxaban reduction criteria = 0.604, and valve morphology = 0.688). However, the incidence of new cerebral lesions on brain magnetic resonance imaging and worsening of neurologic and neurocognitive function were not significantly different between the groups among the various key subgroups. The relative effects of edoxaban and DAPT on the risk of leaflet thrombosis, cerebral thromboembolism, and neurologic dysfunction were consistent across a diverse spectrum of clinical or anatomical factors. Further studies are required to define tailored antithrombotic therapy for high-risk groups with specific clinical or anatomic characteristics.

Citation: Lee JH, et al. Effect of Edoxaban Versus Antiplatelet Therapy on Leaflet Thrombosis and Cerebral Thromboembolism After TAVI According to Major Clinical and Anatomic Factors in Prespecified Subgroup Analysis from the ADAPT-TAVR Trial. Effect of Edoxaban Versus Antiplatelet Therapy on Leaflet Thrombosis and Cerebral Thromboembolism After TAVI According to Major Clinical and Anatomic Factors in Prespecified Subgroup Analysis from the ADAPT-TAVR Trial. 2023; 203:352-361. doi: 10.1016/j.amjcard.2023.06.018

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37517131/
