PMID: 37517607
Title: Frailty assessment using photographs in patients undergoing transcatheter aortic valve replacement.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: When frailty is considered in patient selection, better outcomes are achieved in transcatheter aortic valve replacement (TAVR) procedures. This study investigated whether patient photographs could be utilized to qualitatively assess patient frailty and independently predict poor outcomes following TAVR.
METHODS: This study included 1345 patients with severe aortic stenosis who underwent TAVR at the Sakakibara Heart Institute, Japan, between 2013 and 2022. Patient photographs were taken prior to the initial outpatient clinic examination or at discharge in case the patient's first visit was unplanned admission. Frailty was assessed from patient photographs using a four-point photographic frailty scale; 1 (non-frail), 2 (vulnerable), 3 (mild frail), and 4 (frail). Photographic frailty scale of 3 and 4 were defined as high. The primary endpoint was all-cause mortality following TAVR.
RESULTS: Seven hundred ninety-six patients who had their facial photographs taken within six months before the TAVR procedure were analyzed. Patients with a higher photographic frailty scale belonged to New York Heart Association classes III/IV, and had higher Society of Thoracic Surgeons scores, higher incidence of wheelchair usage, lower hemoglobin, and smaller aortic valve areas. According to the frailty assessment, patients with a higher photographic frailty scale exhibited slower performance in the 5-m walk test, reduced hand grip strength, more severe dementia, had a higher clinical frailty scale, and lower serum albumin level. Multivariable Cox regression analysis revealed that the high photographic frailty scale was independently associated with all-cause mortality (adjusted hazard ratio 1.62, 95 % confidence interval 1.12-2.33, p = 0.010). Kaplan-Meier analysis indicated that patients with high photographic frailty scale had higher all-cause mortality rates compared to those with low scale (log-rank p = 0.011).
CONCLUSIONS: Patient registration photographs can be used to obtain qualitative assessments of frailty in severe aortic stenosis cases, and such assessments can independently predict poor outcomes following TAVR.

Citation: Hiruma T, et al. Frailty assessment using photographs in patients undergoing transcatheter aortic valve replacement. Frailty assessment using photographs in patients undergoing transcatheter aortic valve replacement. 2024; 83:155-162. doi: 10.1016/j.jjcc.2023.07.011

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37517607/
