PMID: 37517350
Title: A Systematic Review of Clinical Outcomes After Carotid Artery Ligation Versus Carotid Artery Reconstruction Following Venoarterial Extracorporeal Membrane Oxygenation in Infants and Children.

Abstract: INTRODUCTION: In pediatric and neonatal populations, the carotid artery is commonly cannulated for venoarterial (VA) extracorporeal membrane oxygenation (ECMO). The decision to ligate (carotid artery ligation [CAL]) versus reconstruct (carotid artery reconstruction [CAR]) the artery at decannulation remains controversial as long-term neurologic outcomes remain unknown. The objective of this study was to summarize current literature on clinical outcomes following CAL and CAR after Venoarterial Extracorporeal Membrane Oxygenation (VA-ECMO).
METHODS: PubMed (MEDLINE), Embase, Web of Science, and Cochrane databases were searched using keywords from January 1950 to October 2020. Studies examining clinical outcomes following CAL and CAR for VA-ECMO in patients <18 y of age were included. Prospective and retrospective cohort studies, case series, case-control studies, and case reports were included. The Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic Reviews and Meta-Analyses (PRISMA) guidelines were performed independently by two reviewers. Assessment of risk of bias was performed.
RESULTS: Eighty studies were included and classified into four categories: noncomparative clinical outcomes after CAL (n = 23, 28.8%), noncomparative clinical outcomes after CAR (n = 12, 15.0%), comparative clinical outcomes after CAL and/or CAR (n = 28, 35.0%), and case reports of clinical outcomes after CAL and/or CAR (n = 17, 21.3%). Follow-up ranged from 0 to 11 y. CAR patency rates ranged from 44 to 100%. There was no substantial evidence supporting an association between CAL versus CAR and short-term neurologic outcomes.
CONCLUSIONS: Studies evaluating outcomes after CAL versus CAR for VA-ECMO are heterogeneous with limited generalizability. Further studies are needed to evaluate long-term consequences of CAL versus CAR, especially as the first survivors of pediatric/neonatal ECMO approach an age of increased risk of carotid stenosis and stroke.

Citation: Gil LA, et al. A Systematic Review of Clinical Outcomes After Carotid Artery Ligation Versus Carotid Artery Reconstruction Following Venoarterial Extracorporeal Membrane Oxygenation in Infants and Children. A Systematic Review of Clinical Outcomes After Carotid Artery Ligation Versus Carotid Artery Reconstruction Following Venoarterial Extracorporeal Membrane Oxygenation in Infants and Children. 2023; 291:423-432. doi: 10.1016/j.jss.2023.06.046

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37517350/
