PMID: 37519508
Title: Cryotherapy for the Treatment of Tracheal Stenosis: A Systematic Review.

Abstract: Tracheal stenosis (TS) is an iatrogenic sequela after intubation or tracheostomy that is increasing despite technological improvement and skilled respiratory care in the ICU. According to the studies, the rate of TS varies from 10 to 22%, but only 1-2% of these stenoses are severe and present with inspiratory dyspnea that does not respond to medical management. Bronchoscopy is considered the most appropriate diagnostic test, and laser surgery and tracheobronchial stenting are the most commonly performed procedures for tracheal stenosis. However, alternative treatment options, including cryotherapy for inoperable patients, have yet to be studied widely. As the number of patients requiring ICU admission with mechanical intubation is increasing, it is crucial to acknowledge this complication and consider alternative management options. Here we present a review of the use of cryotherapy for post-intubation tracheal stenosis.  Pubmed, Cochrane, and EMBASE databases were inquired for studies performed using the keywords 'airway stricture' OR 'airway obstruction' AND 'post-intubation' OR 'post-extubation' OR 'tracheostomy' AND 'cryotherapy'. After the primary and secondary screening, five studies were included in the analysis.  We included 67 patients were included in the analysis, with a mean age of 50.2 (range: 42-55) years. Tracheal stenosis and subglottic stricture were the most common sites of stenosis. Twenty-nine patients were treated with cryotherapy only, while the rest 38 patients had cryotherapy followed by balloon dilation. After the intervention, 48 patients experienced improvement, five experienced no change in the symptoms, 13 patients were asymptomatic before the treatment, and one died. No complication was reported in 65 patients, with only minor complications reported in rest.  Although, there is no clear treatment protocol for patients with inoperable tracheal stenosis. Our review demonstrates that cryotherapy for inoperable tracheal stenosis can be an acceptable alternative treatment with significant clinical improvement. Additionally, cryotherapy has fewer adverse effects compared to other treatment options.

Citation: Hosna A, et al. Cryotherapy for the Treatment of Tracheal Stenosis: A Systematic Review. Cryotherapy for the Treatment of Tracheal Stenosis: A Systematic Review. 2023; 15:e41012. doi: 10.7759/cureus.41012

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37519508/
