PMID: 37510158
Title: Pitfalls and Tips in the Assessment of Aortic Stenosis by Transthoracic Echocardiography.

Abstract: Aortic stenosis (AS) is a valvular heart disease that significantly contributes to cardiovascular morbidity and mortality worldwide. The condition is characterized by calcification and thickening of the aortic valve leaflets, resulting in a narrowed orifice and increased pressure gradient across the valve. AS typically progresses from a subclinical phase known as aortic sclerosis, where valve calcification occurs without a transvalvular gradient, to a more advanced stage marked by a triad of symptoms: heart failure, syncope, and angina. Echocardiography plays a crucial role in the diagnosis and evaluation of AS, serving as the primary non-invasive imaging modality. However, to minimize misdiagnoses, it is crucial to adhere to a standardized protocol for acquiring echocardiographic images. This is because, despite continuous advances in echocardiographic technology, diagnostic errors still occur during the evaluation of AS, particularly in classifying its severity and hemodynamic characteristics. This review focuses on providing guidance for the imager during the echocardiographic assessment of AS. Firstly, the review will report on how the echo machine should be set to improve image quality and reduce noise and artifacts. Thereafter, the review will report specific emphasis on accurate measurements of left ventricular outflow tract diameter, aortic valve morphology and movement, as well as aortic and left ventricular outflow tract velocities. By considering these key factors, clinicians can ensure consistency and accuracy in the evaluation of AS using echocardiography.

Citation: Canciello G, et al. Pitfalls and Tips in the Assessment of Aortic Stenosis by Transthoracic Echocardiography. Pitfalls and Tips in the Assessment of Aortic Stenosis by Transthoracic Echocardiography. 2023; 13:(unknown pages). doi: 10.3390/diagnostics13142414

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37510158/
