PMID: 37524299
Title: Pathophysiology and diagnostic pathway of myocardial infarction with non-obstructive coronary arteries.

Abstract: Myocardial infarction with non-obstructive coronary arteries (MINOCA) is a heterogeneous and diverse disease entity, which accounts for about 6 % of all acute myocardial infarction (AMI) cases. In patients with chest pain and acute myocardial injury detected by a highly sensitive troponin assay, the absence of epicardial coronary stenosis of 50 % or greater on angiography leads to the working diagnosis of MINOCA. The updated JCS/CVIT/JCC 2023 Guideline described MINOCA as a new disease concept and recommended a multimodality approach to uncovering the underlying causes of MINOCA. Cardiac magnetic resonance (CMR) is useful in not only making a definite diagnosis of MINOCA, but also excluding non-ischemic causes that mimic AMI such as takotsubo cardiomyopathy and myocarditis. Meanwhile, intracoronary imaging, particularly optical coherence tomography (OCT), enables us to evaluate precisely intracoronary morphological alterations including plaque disruption and spontaneous coronary artery dissection which are not revealed by angiographic findings alone. Recent studies have shown that an initial workup with the combination of CMR and OCT could provide a definite diagnosis in a significant percentage of patients suspected of MINOCA. Consecutively, patients with inconclusive results of a series of CMR and OCT implementation are eligible for assessing the potential for coronary functional abnormalities or blood coagulopathy as another factor involved in the development of MINOCA. Although uncovering the pathogenesis of MINOCA might be essential for establishing an individualized treatment approach, significant knowledge gaps in terms of secondary prevention strategies for MINOCA focusing on the improvement of long-term prognosis remain to be overcome. In this review, we summarize our current understanding of MINOCA and highlight contemporary diagnostic approaches for patients with suspected MINOCA.

Citation: Takahashi J, et al. Pathophysiology and diagnostic pathway of myocardial infarction with non-obstructive coronary arteries. Pathophysiology and diagnostic pathway of myocardial infarction with non-obstructive coronary arteries. 2024; 83:17-24. doi: 10.1016/j.jjcc.2023.07.014

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37524299/
