PMID: 37521453
Title: Use of an Autologous Platelet-Rich Concentrate in Hypospadias Repair: A Systematic Review and Meta analysis.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: There is unanimous agreement amongst hypospadias surgeons to use an intermediate layer to cover the neourethra. Dartos fascia and tunica vaginalis (TV) flaps are the most preferred tissues to be used. Tissue glue, sealants and biomaterials are also useful where there is a paucity of local tissue to cover the neourethra. But these blood-derived products have associated infectious and allergic risks. The autologous human platelet concentrate (APC) contains biologically active factors and is safe for wound healing and soft tissue reconstruction. It has been used by few surgeons as an intermediate layer in hypospadias repair. This systematic review and meta-analysis aim to systematically compare the outcomes of hypospadias surgery in children with or without using APCs.
METHODS: This systematic review and meta-analysis was conducted as per the Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis (PRISMA) guidelines. Meta-analysis protocol was registered with INPLASY. A systematic, detailed search was carried out by the authors in the electronic databases, including Medline, Embase, CENTRAL, Scopus, Google Scholar and clinical trial registry. Studies were selected and compared based on primary outcome measures like urethra-cutaneous fistula, meatal stenosis, wound infection and operative time. Statistical analysis was performed using a fixed-effect model, pooled risk ratio and I2 heterogeneity.
RESULTS: Four randomized studies with a total of 355 patients were included. Pooled analysis for outcome of urethra-cutaneous fistula (UCF) showed no significant difference between the groups with APC and without APC. Pooled analysis for the other outcome like meatal stenosis, wound infection and total complications showed a decrease in incidence of these complications in groups with APC.
CONCLUSION: This meta-analysis shows that there is a reduction in the incidence of wound infection, meatal stenosis and total complications in patients where APC was used to cover the neourethra, although no such difference was observed in UCF rates.

Citation: Borkar N, et al. Use of an Autologous Platelet-Rich Concentrate in Hypospadias Repair: A Systematic Review and Meta analysis. Use of an Autologous Platelet-Rich Concentrate in Hypospadias Repair: A Systematic Review and Meta analysis. 2023; 21:177-184. doi: 10.1080/2090598X.2022.2149129

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37521453/
