PMID: 37524284
Title: Small-diameter PCL/PU vascular graft modified with heparin-aspirin compound for preventing the occurrence of acute thrombosis.

Abstract: The occurrence of acute thrombosis, directly related to platelet aggregation and coagulant system, is a considerable reason for the failure of small-diameter vascular grafts. Heparin is commonly used as a functional molecule for graft modification due to the strong anticoagulant effect. Unfortunately, heparin cannot directly resist the adhesion and aggregation of platelets. Therefore, we have prepared a heparin-aspirin compound by coupling heparin with aspirin, an antiplatelet drug, and covalently grafted it onto the surface of polycaprolactone/polyurethane composite tube. In this way, the graft not only showed a dual function of both anticoagulation and antiplatelet, but also effectively avoided the rapid drug release and excessive toxicity to other organs caused by simple blending the medicine with material matrix. The compound retained the original function of heparin, showing good hydrophilicity and biocompatibility, which could promote the adhesion and proliferation of endothelial cells (ECs) and facilitate the process of tissue regeneration. What's more, the compound showed more effective than heparin in reducing platelet activation and preventing thrombosis. The graft modified by this compound maintained completely unobstructed for one month of implantation, while severe obstruction or stenosis occurred in PCL/PU and PCL/PU-Hep lumen at the first week, verifying the effect of the compound on preventing acute thrombosis. In general, this study proposed a designing method for small-diameter vascular graft which could prevent acute thrombosis and promote intimal construction.

Citation: Zhou SY, et al. Small-diameter PCL/PU vascular graft modified with heparin-aspirin compound for preventing the occurrence of acute thrombosis. Small-diameter PCL/PU vascular graft modified with heparin-aspirin compound for preventing the occurrence of acute thrombosis. 2023; 249:126058. doi: 10.1016/j.ijbiomac.2023.126058

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37524284/
