PMID: 37523516
Title: The Use of Oblique-viewing Endoscopic Ultrasound for Accessing the Afferent Limb for Endoscopic Ultrasound-guided Biliary Drainage in Patients with Severe Stenotic Hepaticojejunal Anastomosis: One Case and Literature Review.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: The treatment of hepaticojejunal anastomotic strictures in patients with surgically altered anastomosis is challenging. Endoscopic ultrasound (EUS)-guided biliary drainage is being established as a feasible biliary drainage procedure. How can oblique-viewing endoscopic ultrasound (OV-EUS) safely reach the treatment area in the afferent limb for EUS-guided hepaticojejunostomy? This is a key, meaningful, and challenging question.
METHODS: A unique case of an OV-EUS-guided hepaticojejunostomy performed in a patient with severe stenotic hepaticojejunal anastomosis was reported, and the relevant literatures were reviewed.
RESULTS: There are only 3 previous case reports of EUS-guided transanastomotic drainage using OV-EUS. The above 3 cases reported did not elaborate on the key treatment details of the procedure. Especially how can the OV-EUS safely reach the treatment area in the afferent limb?
CONCLUSIONS: For patients with severe anastomotic stricture, when the retrograde or antegrade guide wire cannot pass through the stenosis to establish biliary drainage, OV-EUS can safely reach the treatment area in the afferent limb under the guidance of a fluoroscopic view and a guide wire. Thus, an OV-EUS-guided hepaticojejunostomy can be achieved.

Citation: Huang PX, et al. The Use of Oblique-viewing Endoscopic Ultrasound for Accessing the Afferent Limb for Endoscopic Ultrasound-guided Biliary Drainage in Patients with Severe Stenotic Hepaticojejunal Anastomosis: One Case and Literature Review. The Use of Oblique-viewing Endoscopic Ultrasound for Accessing the Afferent Limb for Endoscopic Ultrasound-guided Biliary Drainage in Patients with Severe Stenotic Hepaticojejunal Anastomosis: One Case and Literature Review. 2023; 33:565-570. doi: 10.1097/SLE.0000000000001199

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37523516/
