PMID: 37527609
Title: LC-MS/MS based metabolomic analysis of serum from patients with cerebrovascular stenosis.

Abstract: Cerebrovascular stenosis (CVS) is the main cause of ischemic stroke, which greatly threatens human life. Hence, it's important to perform early screenings for CVS. Metabolomics is an emerging omics approach that has great advantages in disease screening and diagnosis. Therefore, we aim to elucidate the correlation between CVS and metabolomics, which can aid in conducting CVS screening at an early stage. Patients with CVS in Beijing Hospital were included in the study. A total of 36 participants, including 18 patients diagnosed with CVS and 18 healthy individuals, were recruited at Beijing Hospital between May 2022 and October 2021. The serum samples were analyzed for liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS). Then, multivariate statistical methods, including principal component analysis (PCA), partial least squares-discriminant analysis (PLS-DA) and orthogonal partial least squares-discriminant analysis (OPLS-DA) were performed. Differential metabolites were obtained and demonstrated by volcano plot and heatmap. The study recruited 36 participants, including 18 patients with CVS and 18 healthy participants. A total of 150 metabolites were identified. Multivariate statistical analysis revealed significant differences between patients and healthy participants. Furthermore, 30 serum metabolites levels differed significantly between two groups. Differential metabolites were enriched in phenylalanine, tyrosine, and tryptophan biosynthesis; primary bile acid biosynthesis, and other pathways. This study identified differential metabolites in patients with CVS and elucidated the relevant metabolic pathways. Thus, these findings aid in the study of the pathogenesis of CVS and its early diagnosis. DATA AVAILABILITY STATEMENT: The datasets generated for this study are available on request to the corresponding author.

Citation: Shan D, et al. LC-MS/MS based metabolomic analysis of serum from patients with cerebrovascular stenosis. LC-MS/MS based metabolomic analysis of serum from patients with cerebrovascular stenosis. 2023; 235:115608. doi: 10.1016/j.jpba.2023.115608

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37527609/
