PMID: 37538211
Title: Closure of Fistula-in-Ano Using a Radial-Emitting Laser Probe: Initial Experience in Lagos, Nigeria.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Fistula-in-ano treatment has remained quite challenging with high failure rates and a potential for damage to the anal sphincteric complex leading to flatal or faecal incontinence. The treatment of fistula-in-ano using the fistula laser closure (FiLaC) as a minimally invasive, sphincter-saving procedure for complex disease has recently been documented.
OBJECTIVES: This review aimed to report the outcome of using it at the Lagos University Teaching Hospital.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: The procedures were performed with a radially emitting laser fibre from Biolitec AG-CeramOptec (Bonn, Germany). The duration of symptoms, type of fistula, duration of the procedures, and postoperative complications were evaluated.
RESULTS: Eleven male patients had laser fistula-in-ano closure. The age range was 33-51 years, with a median age of 39 years and an interquartile range (IQR) of 37-47 years. Five patients were noted to have high fistula/e, whereas six had low fistula/e, seven had a single tract each, and three had three tracts each. The duration of surgery ranged, approximately from 3 to 60 min, with a median of 19 min and IQR of 9-33 min. Postoperative pain was mild in all patients and were all discharged as day case. There was no postoperative wound infection, anal incontinence, anal stenosis, and subcutaneous abscess. However, there was a recurrence in two patients.
CONCLUSIONS: FiLaC has been demonstrated to be a reliable and safe sphincter-saving procedure for treating fistula-in-ano even for complex and high fistulae that is feasible in our subregion.

Citation: Olajide TO and Bode CO. Closure of Fistula-in-Ano Using a Radial-Emitting Laser Probe: Initial Experience in Lagos, Nigeria. Closure of Fistula-in-Ano Using a Radial-Emitting Laser Probe: Initial Experience in Lagos, Nigeria. 2023; 13:101-106. doi: 10.4103/jwas.jwas_108_23

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37538211/
