PMID: 37538221
Title: Challenges and Prospects of Laser Haemorrhoidoplasty in a Low Resource Setting: The LUTH Experience.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Haemorrhoids are the most common condition of the anal canal causing significant disability. Traditional excisional haemorrhoidectomy and its various modifications, while effective, may be attended by severe postoperative pain and other complications. Laser haemorrhoidoplasty is reported to be effective with fewer complications and shorter hospital stay.
OBJECTIVES: The aim of this study was to report the outcome of intrahaemorrhoidal coagulation with 1470-nm diode laser at the Lagos University Teaching Hospital.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: The procedures were performed with a radially emitting laser fibre from Biolitec AG-CeramOptec (Bonn, Germany). The duration of symptoms, grade of the haemorrhoids, duration of the procedures, and postoperative complications were evaluated.
RESULTS: Eleven patients had laser haemorrhoidoplasty. There were seven males and four females. The age range was 23-71 years, with a median age of 47 years and an interquartile range (IQR) of 28-57 years. Duration of surgery ranged from 20 to 90 min, with a median of 33 min and IQR of 25-53 min. Postoperative pain was mild in eight patients and moderate in three. Ten patients were discharged as day cases and one 3 days later due to spinal anaesthesia-related headache and acute urinary retention. One patient later had an anal ulcer probably due to too much energy delivered during the procedure, this was managed conservatively. There was no postoperative wound infection, anal incontinence, anal stenosis, subcutaneous abscess, and fistula or recurrence.
CONCLUSION: The advantages of laser haemorrhoidoplasty make it a readily acceptable form of treatment for haemorrhoids in our setting.

Citation: Olajide TO, et al. Challenges and Prospects of Laser Haemorrhoidoplasty in a Low Resource Setting: The LUTH Experience. Challenges and Prospects of Laser Haemorrhoidoplasty in a Low Resource Setting: The LUTH Experience. 2023; 13:96-100. doi: 10.4103/jwas.jwas_42_23

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37538221/
