PMID: 37530400
Title: Contemporary Imaging Assessment of Strictures and Fibrosis in Crohn Disease, With Focus on Quantitative Biomarkers: From the AJR Special Series on Imaging of Fibrosis.

Abstract: Patients with Crohn disease commonly have bowel strictures develop, which exhibit varying degrees of inflammation and fibrosis. Differentiation of the distinct inflammatory and fibrotic components of strictures is key for the optimization of therapeutic management and for the development of antifibrotic drugs. Cross-sectional imaging techniques, including ultrasound, CT, and MRI, allow evaluation of the full thickness of the bowel wall as well as extramural complications and associated mesenteric abnormalities. Although promising data have been reported for a range of novel imaging biomarkers for detection of fibrosis and quantification of the degree of fibrosis, these biomarkers lack sufficient validation and standardization for clinical use. Additional methods, including PET with emerging radiotracers, artificial intelligence, and radiomics, are also under investigation for stricture characterization. In this review, we highlight the clinical relevance of identifying fibrosis in Crohn disease, review the histopathologic aspects of strictures in Crohn disease, summarize the morphologic imaging findings of strictures, and explore contemporary developments in the use of cross-sectional imaging techniques for detecting and characterizing intestinal strictures, with attention given to emerging quantitative biomarkers.

Citation: Rimola J, et al. Contemporary Imaging Assessment of Strictures and Fibrosis in Crohn Disease, With Focus on Quantitative Biomarkers: From the AJR Special Series on Imaging of Fibrosis. Contemporary Imaging Assessment of Strictures and Fibrosis in Crohn Disease, With Focus on Quantitative Biomarkers: From the AJR Special Series on Imaging of Fibrosis. 2024; 222:e2329693. doi: 10.2214/AJR.23.29693

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37530400/
