PMID: 37546130
Title: The Association of Carotid Plaque Size, Carotid Intima-Media Thickness, Resistive Index, and Pulsatility Index With Acute Ischemic Stroke.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Carotid atherosclerosis is an important etiological factor for ischemic stroke. Early carotid lesion detection may prevent further strokes. Doppler ultrasound measures carotid artery blood flow, intima-media thickness, stenosis, plaques, and lumen and wall changes.
OBJECTIVE: The objective of this study is to determine the association of carotid plaque size (CPS), carotid intima-media thickness (CIMT), resistive index (RI), and pulsatility index (PI) with acute ischemic stroke.
METHODOLOGY: A total of 60 participants were taken, including 30 cases and 30 age- and sex-matched controls. Patients with acute ischemic stroke were included as cases and age- and sex-matched healthy volunteers were included as controls. A carotid duplex study was done in both groups, and the findings were compared.
RESULTS: The mean age of the ischemic stroke cases was 63.33±10.79 years; more than half were aged >60 years. Male patients were 73.3% and female patients were 26.7% of the cases. Age and gender were statistically similar (p>0.05) in groups (cases and controls). The plaques were homogenous in 30% of patients, calcified in 26.7%, and mixed in 6.7%. About 36.6% of patients did not have any plaque. CPS was greater among cases than controls in the right and left internal and left common carotid arteries; however, it was not statistically significant (p>0.05). The mean CIMT was 0.79±0.10 mm on the right side and 0.90±0.17 mm on the left side among cases. CIMT was significantly higher in the cases group than in the controls (p<0.05). The mean RI was significantly greater in the left common carotid artery (CCA) among the cases than in the controls (p<0.05). Patients aged over 60 years had significantly higher RI and PI values in the left internal carotid artery (ICA) compared to the younger cases (p<0.05). Smoking history had a significant association with left CCA RI and PI values (p<0.05). However, RI, PI, CPS, and CIMT among cases were similar in different groups like diabetic, non-diabetic, hypertensive, and non-hypertensive patients (p>0.05).
CONCLUSION: CIMT was significantly thicker among the patients with ischemic stroke compared to the control group. RI in the left CCA was significantly greater among the stroke patients than in the control group. The age of the patient and smoking habit had an association with RI and PI values. Most of the parameters were found to be significant on the left side, suggesting carotid atherosclerosis may not be symmetrical. A large-scale further study is needed to see the association of these variables with ischemic stroke patients.

Citation: Kawnayn G, et al. The Association of Carotid Plaque Size, Carotid Intima-Media Thickness, Resistive Index, and Pulsatility Index With Acute Ischemic Stroke. The Association of Carotid Plaque Size, Carotid Intima-Media Thickness, Resistive Index, and Pulsatility Index With Acute Ischemic Stroke. 2023; 15:e41384. doi: 10.7759/cureus.41384

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37546130/
