PMID: 37546241
Title: Exploring the Role of Modified Vascular Anatomical Molding (MVAM) in Prenatal Diagnosis Teaching and Prognosis Prediction of Fetal Complex Congenital Heart Disease (CCHD): A Preliminary Study.

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: The present study aimed to explore the role of modified vascular anatomical molding (MVAM) in prenatal diagnosis teaching and prognosis prediction of fetal complex congenital heart disease (CCHD).
METHODS: Step 1, MVAM method was used to cast the micro-blood vessels and trachea of 52 CCHD specimens. Subsequently, 52 MVAMs were analyzed and compared with the prenatal ultrasound to summarize their characteristics, misdiagnosis and MVAM's teaching role. Step 2, the surgical and follow-up data of 206 CCHD cases were retrospectively analyzed. Cases that evolved into critical illnesses or died within 1-3 years after surgery (poor prognosis) were classified into the study group (n = 77) and those with good prognosis into the control group (n = 129), which were split into the training set and the test set in the ratio 7:3 based on the time cut-off. In the training set, the prognosis of CCHD was predicted using the MVAM anatomical soft markers (distortion and narrowing of aorta/pulmonary artery, right ventricular infundibulum, etc.) and the decision curve analysis (DCA) performed. The model was validated using the test set, and a nomogram was finally established.
RESULTS: It was observed that all 52 CCHD cases were confirmed using MVAM. A total of 91 cardiac malformations were recorded, among which 41 malformations were misdiagnosed, and 29 malformations were missed by the prenatal echocardiography. The MVAM method has a good teaching/feedback effect on prenatal diagnosis. The combined model exhibited a higher predictive performance in the training- and test-set. Its high clinical net benefit was proved by DCA. Additionally, the nomogram established using the combined model received a favorable response in clinical practice.
CONCLUSION: The research results indicated that MVAM improved the prenatal diagnosis teaching and training performance. The combined model established based on MVAM anatomical soft markers can offer a high clinical significance for prognosis prediction of CCHD.

Citation: An P, et al. Exploring the Role of Modified Vascular Anatomical Molding (MVAM) in Prenatal Diagnosis Teaching and Prognosis Prediction of Fetal Complex Congenital Heart Disease (CCHD): A Preliminary Study. Exploring the Role of Modified Vascular Anatomical Molding (MVAM) in Prenatal Diagnosis Teaching and Prognosis Prediction of Fetal Complex Congenital Heart Disease (CCHD): A Preliminary Study. 2023; 16:3229-3245. doi: 10.2147/IJGM.S421751

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37546241/
