PMID: 37546057
Title: Serum Irisin Levels Are Inversely Correlated With the Severity of Coronary Artery Disease Confirmed by Coronary Angiography: A Comparative Cross-Sectional Study.

Abstract: Introduction Irisin, a newly discovered myokine, has been reported for its role in coronary artery disease (CAD), which is a major cause of mortality worldwide. Atherosclerosis is the primary cause of CAD. Irisin has been reported to reduce atherosclerosis by improving endothelial function and inhibiting inflammation via iNOS/NF-κB pathways. We sought to investigate the relationship between serum irisin levels and the severity of CAD that is confirmed with coronary angiography. Methods A comparative cross-sectional study was designed between the Chemical Pathology and Cardiology departments at KEMU/Mayo Hospital in Lahore, Pakistan. Patients were divided into group A with mild CAD (<50% stenosis) and group B with moderate-severe CAD (>50% stenosis). Serum was collected from venous blood, and irisin levels were analyzed by ELISA. Inclusion criteria: patients with stable CAD. Exclusion criteria: History of coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG), acute coronary syndrome (ACS), active or chronic infection, hepatic or renal dysfunction. Results The mean + SD age (years) of patients in group B (57.0±9.5) was significantly higher than group A (50.0±13.7). Irisin levels (μg/ml) were significantly higher in group A (15.3±4.6) than in group B (9.3±2.4). Irisin levels were significantly negatively correlated with the severity of CAD (% stenosis). Conclusion Serum irisin levels are low in patients with moderate to severe CAD, and they are negatively correlated with the severity of CAD (% stenosis).

Citation: Tanveer Y, et al. Serum Irisin Levels Are Inversely Correlated With the Severity of Coronary Artery Disease Confirmed by Coronary Angiography: A Comparative Cross-Sectional Study. Serum Irisin Levels Are Inversely Correlated With the Severity of Coronary Artery Disease Confirmed by Coronary Angiography: A Comparative Cross-Sectional Study. 2023; 15:e41475. doi: 10.7759/cureus.41475

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37546057/
