PMID: 37544629
Title: Echocardiography Assessment of Rheumatic Heart Disease: Implications for Percutaneous Balloon Mitral Valvuloplasty.

Abstract: Echocardiography is an important diagnostic imaging modality in recognizing rheumatic heart disease, a chronic sequelae of acute rheumatic fever. Left-sided heart valves, especially the mitral valve is typically affected, with stenosis or regurgitation as a consequence. Although assessment of valve area by 2D planimetry is the reference method for mitral stenosis severity, 3D planimetry provides more accurate measurement and diagnostic value. Careful selection of patients in terms of echocardiographic criteria is essential to ensure safety and success of the intervention and better long-term outcomes. Several echocardiographic scores based upon mitral valve mobility, thickening, calcification, and subvalvular thickening are developed to assess mitral valve anatomy and the feasibility of percutaneous mitral commissurotomy. 3D transesophageal echocardiography (TEE) provides detailed information of the mitral anatomy (commissural fusions, and subvalvular apparatus) before intervention. In addition, 3D TEE planimetry provides a more accurate measurement of the valve area compared with 2D echocardiography. Generally, huge annular calcification and lack of commissural fusion are unfavorable echocardiographic markers that increase the risk of complications and preclude the feasibility of percutaneous balloon mitral valvuloplasty. More contemporary prospective echocardiography research studies on patients with RHD from low- and middle-income countries are needed.

Citation: Mohamed Ali A, et al. Echocardiography Assessment of Rheumatic Heart Disease: Implications for Percutaneous Balloon Mitral Valvuloplasty. Echocardiography Assessment of Rheumatic Heart Disease: Implications for Percutaneous Balloon Mitral Valvuloplasty. 2023; 48:102021. doi: 10.1016/j.cpcardiol.2023.102021

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37544629/
