PMID: 37559141
Title: Postoperative complications analysis of circular stapled versus linear stapled anastomosis for patients undergoing esophagectomy: a systematic review and meta-analysis.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: The choice of anastomosis technique after esophagectomy is closely associated with the postoperative complications. Whether circular stapled or linear stapled anastomosis is the optimal technique has not been established. Therefore, we conducted this meta-analysis to show the latest and most comprehensive published assessment of circular stapled anastomosis in comparison with linear stapled anastomosis in postoperative complications.
METHODS: Databases (PubMed, Embase, Web of science, Cochrane Library) were searched for all randomized controlled trials and comparative studies comparing circular stapled anastomosis with linear stapled anastomosis after esophagectomy. The odd ratio and mean difference with 95% confidence interval were calculated. We used the Higgins I² statistics to assess the statistical heterogeneity between studies. Review manager (version 5.4) software was used in this analysis.
RESULTS: Sixteen studies with 2322 patients were included in our study. The study demonstrated that the use of linear stapled technique after esophagectomy could reduce the risk of both anastomotic leakage (P = 0.0003) and stricture (P < 0.00001) compared with circular stapled technique. Stratification by anastomotic site showed that no matter what kind of anastomotic site (cervical or thoracic anastomosis) was used, linear stapled anastomosis could effectively reduce the anastomotic stricture in comparison with circular stapled anastomosis. Moreover, linear stapled anastomosis could decrease the risk of thoracic anastomotic leakage. There were no significant differences between circle stapled anastomosis and linear stapled anastomosis in reflux esophagitis (P = 0.17), pneumonia (P = 0.91), operation time (P = 0.41) and hospital stay (P = 0.38).
CONCLUSIONS: The study suggested that linear stapled anastomosis could be considered to be an optimal treatment associated with a reduced risk of anastomotic leakage and stricture in comparison with circular stapled anastomosis.

Citation: Gu HY, et al. Postoperative complications analysis of circular stapled versus linear stapled anastomosis for patients undergoing esophagectomy: a systematic review and meta-analysis. Postoperative complications analysis of circular stapled versus linear stapled anastomosis for patients undergoing esophagectomy: a systematic review and meta-analysis. 2023; 18:242. doi: 10.1186/s13019-023-02309-y

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37559141/
