PMID: 37559626
Title: The role of bronchoscopy in the multidisciplinary approach to benign tracheal stenosis.

Abstract: Benign tracheal stenosis can cause dyspnea, wheezing, and cough mimicking other obstructive lung diseases which often leads to a delay in the diagnosis. Risk factors and etiologies for tracheal strictures include autoimmune diseases, infection, gastro-esophageal reflux disease (GERD), radiation injury and iatrogenic factors such as post-intubation and post-tracheostomy. Once suspected, tracheal strictures are diagnosed by performing a thorough evaluation involving clinical exam, laboratory workup, pulmonary function test, chest imaging and bronchoscopy. Bronchoscopy plays a pivotal role in the diagnosis of stenosis and along with the imaging and physiologic assessments leads to a proper description of the stenosis based on all parameters that matters for management. Surgical resection provides a definitive management in most patients with idiopathic or post intubation/tracheostomy stenosis, however, factors such as severe co-morbidities, length and location of the stricture can preclude patients from undergoing curative surgery. Several bronchoscopic interventions including mechanical or laser assisted dilation, electrosurgery (ES), airway stenting and pharmacological treatment with mitomycin C (MMC) and intralesional steroid have been reported in the literature for management of patients who are not surgical candidates. Herein, we review the role of bronchoscopy and illustrate the importance of a multi-disciplinary team (MDT) approach comprising of interventional pulmonologists, thoracic surgeons and otorhinolaryngologists in the diagnosis and management of patients with benign tracheal stenosis.

Citation: Ravikumar N, et al. The role of bronchoscopy in the multidisciplinary approach to benign tracheal stenosis. The role of bronchoscopy in the multidisciplinary approach to benign tracheal stenosis. 2023; 15:3998-4015. doi: 10.21037/jtd-22-1734

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37559626/
