PMID: 37554082
Title: [Recommendations for the management and rehabilitation of patients with a tracheostomy].

Abstract: Tracheostomy is a common procedure in critically ill patients who require mechanical ventilation. Tracheostomies have several advantages over endotracheal tubes, including less sinusitis or pharyngeal injuries, fewer sedative drugs, improved oropharyngeal hygiene, easier communication, more comfort, preservation of vocal cord function, and so on. However, patients with a tracheostomy require high quality care and often suffer from dysphagia, dysphonia, tracheal stenosis, or excessive airway secretions, etc. In China, there are currently no comprehensive evidence-based clinical guidelines or consensus documents on the management and rehabilitation of patients with a tracheostomy. Approaches to tracheostomy care are inconsistent among different institutions and clinicians. Therefore, a group of top experts specialized in this field in China were gathered to draft this document to reduce variations in practice in the management of patients with a tracheostomy and to minimize complications. Panel members were asked to complete surveys on various aspects of adult tracheostomy care, followed by a conference at which the results were presented and a number of themes outlined for a formal literature review and a preliminary draft. Several conferences were then held to discuss the differences of opinion among the panel members. In general, the panel reached a consensus and a total of 9 issues were covered in the document. At first, the importance of a standardized management protocol, pathophysiological characteristics, indications, complications, contradictions, and techniques used for tracheostomies were discussed. Then, more emphasis was placed on post-operative care such as airway clearance therapy, tube changes, and decannulation criteria, etc. In addition, the most important topic was elaborated, namely the methods used to promote the rehabilitation and decannulation of patients with a tracheostomy, including respiratory and other skeletal muscle training, dysphagia and verbal communication intervention, ventilation support, chest physiotherapy, and specifically the traditional Chinese medical therapies that were excellent in this area, such as acupuncture, moxibustion, and herbal medicine, etc. Finally, a flow chart was created to summarize the suggestions for managing and promoting rehabilitation or decannulation of patients with a tracheostomy. Proposed by Respiratory Equipment Committee of China Association of Medical Equipment, Young and Middle-Aged Pulmonary Rehabilitation Group of Pulmonary Rehabilitation Committee of China Association of Rehabilitation of Disabled Person, and Critical Illness Rehabilitation Group of China Association of Rehabilitation Medicine, and sponsored by several national or provincial natural science research projects, this work is expected to provide clear guidance for the general treatment of adult patients with a tracheostomy in China in the future.

Citation: Respiratory Equipment Committee of China Association of Medical Equipment, et al. [Recommendations for the management and rehabilitation of patients with a tracheostomy]. [Recommendations for the management and rehabilitation of patients with a tracheostomy]. 2023; 46:965-976. doi: 10.3760/cma.j.cn112147-20230331-00153

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37554082/
