PMID: 37554901
Title: Penile amputation after neonatal circumcision: a case report.

Abstract: UNLABELLED: In children, one of the most common surgical procedures worldwide is circumcision, which has strong religious implications and is frequently performed for nontherapeutic reasons. Circumcision is typically associated with old customs. Complete penile amputation is extremely uncommon, and the prognosis is little understood.
CASE PRESENTATION: A 7-day-old male term baby was circumcised with a cauter by an unexperienced practitioner, and the patient was admitted to the department of pediatric surgery. Both the glans and the body had become discolored and necrotic. The patient was taken into the theater and given general anesthesia. The authors removed the debridement and inserted a catheter into the urethra to prevent urethral stenosis.
DISCUSSION: The procedure of circumcision has several medical benefits and is widely performed for religious, cultural, and medical reasons. It is generally agreed that circumcision prevents against sexually transmitted diseases, penile and cervical cancer in adults, as well as urinary tract infections in children.Partial or complete penile amputation injuries are rare and frequently the result of psychotic self-harm. Operators must correctly conduct the circumcision in order to prevent the potential complications that can happen when the procedure is performed out by untrained hands.The most common cause of penile amputation injuries, whether partial or total, is psychotic self-harm. Operators must carry out the procedure carefully to prevent the potential complications that can happen when circumcision is performed by untrained hands.
CONCLUSION: The authors present here a case of a 7-day-old boy who had ritual circumcision with a cauter complicated by an entire penile amputation, which was treated with the insertion of a catheter to prevent the closure of the urethra. The patient reported his penis was circumcised with cautery one day later the glans and the entire penis became discolored and necrosis, unfortunately, the entire penis was lost with the overlying skin.

Citation: Sheikh OA, et al. Penile amputation after neonatal circumcision: a case report. Penile amputation after neonatal circumcision: a case report. 2023; 85:4083-4086. doi: 10.1097/MS9.0000000000000996

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37554901/
