PMID: 37560580
Title: Ruptured proximal middle cerebral artery traumatic pseudoaneurysm treated with bypass-assisted trapping surgery: A case report.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Traumatic pseudoaneurysms are rare but have a high mortality rate; therefore, immediate diagnosis is vital. Most pseudoaneurysms are in the internal carotid artery or peripheral arteries, while proximal middle cerebral artery pseudoaneurysms have rarely been reported. We present a case of ruptured traumatic pseudoaneurysm located at the M1-M2 bifurcation.
CASE DESCRIPTION: A 42-year-old man was injured in a motorcycle accident and his Glasgow coma scale score on admission was 7 (Eye opening1, Verbal response2, Motor response4 [E1V2M4]). Head computed tomography (CT) showed thick subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH). We suspected a ruptured aneurysm, but three-dimensional CT angiography (3D-CTA) did not detect any vascular defects. Head magnetic resonance angiography showed progressive right M1 stenosis suggesting arterial dissection. 3D-CTA on day 20 showed a small aneurysm in the proximal portion of the M2. Although surgery was scheduled for day 26, suddenly left hemiparesis appeared on day 24. Head CT detected fresh SAH and emergency surgery was performed on day 25. We dissected around the ruptured point under M1 temporary occlusion with superficial temporal artery-M2 assist bypass. Contrary to our expectations, there was only a small laceration in the right M2 superior trunk. We trapped the laceration and the proximal portion of the M2 superior trunk while preserving antegrade blood flow from the M1 to the M2 inferior trunk. On the 5-month follow-up, the patient was able to walk independently.
CONCLUSION: Unreasonably thick traumatic SAH or spastic stenosis after head injury may indicate a traumatic pseudoaneurysm and require repeated neurovascular evaluation. If a pseudoaneurysm is detected, immediate surgical intervention is mandatory.

Citation: Somiya D, et al. Ruptured proximal middle cerebral artery traumatic pseudoaneurysm treated with bypass-assisted trapping surgery: A case report. Ruptured proximal middle cerebral artery traumatic pseudoaneurysm treated with bypass-assisted trapping surgery: A case report. 2023; 14:263. doi: 10.25259/SNI_344_2023

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37560580/
