PMID: 37560375
Title: Common Autoantibody among Takayasu Arteritis and Ulcerative Colitis: A Possible Pathophysiology That Includes Gut-Vessel Connection in Vascular Inflammation.

Abstract: Takayasu arteritis (TAK) is a type of large-vessel vasculitis that predominantly affects young females. The precise pathomechanism of TAK is still under investigation. In TAK, the vasa vasorum is considered to be the initial inflammatory site. Disruption of the vasa vasorum induces the entry of inflammatory cells into the vascular wall of large vessels between the media and adventitia, and infiltrated cells damage the vascular components, eventually leading to stenosis or dilatation of the affected arteries. In addition, T cells are considered key players in TAK, and myeloid cells function as effector cells. Although the roles of B cells in TAK are poorly understood, recent evidence supports their contribution to the pathogenicity of TAK. Particularly, two autoantibodies have been identified in TAK through investigation of anti-endothelial cell antibodies, and they could be involved in the maintenance of vascular inflammation. Furthermore, one of the autoantibodies, anti-endothelial protein C receptor, was shown to be present in ulcerative colitis (UC), which is genetically and clinically associated with TAK. Similar autoantibodies in inflammatory diseases with different target organs indicate a common underlying pathophysiology of these diseases, which could be characterized by the aberrant activation of B cells. This review discusses recent understanding of the pathomechanisms of TAK and UC, with a focus on the involvement of B cells and autoantibodies. The close association of UC with TAK further suggests a common etiology, and the importance of the intestinal microbiota, including dysbiosis, is also becoming known in TAK. Investigation of such common factors among TAK and UC would improve understanding of the interplay between gut and vascular inflammation, which is a new concept for developing vascular inflammation through the gut-vessel connection.

Citation: Shirai T. Common Autoantibody among Takayasu Arteritis and Ulcerative Colitis: A Possible Pathophysiology That Includes Gut-Vessel Connection in Vascular Inflammation. Common Autoantibody among Takayasu Arteritis and Ulcerative Colitis: A Possible Pathophysiology That Includes Gut-Vessel Connection in Vascular Inflammation. 2023; 6:265-273. doi: 10.31662/jmaj.2023-0038

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37560375/
