PMID: 37563043
Title: Tracheostomy in otorhinolaryngology education and training programs: A Japanese nationwide survey.

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: Surgical airway management is one of the most effective techniques for safe airway management. Within the training programs relating to knowledge and skills required by otorhinolaryngologists, tracheostomy and postoperative management are important items that must be fully understood by airway surgeons. We performed a nationwide survey to identify problems within tracheostomy and postoperative management in Japan in order to establish practical and safe guidelines for surgical airway management.
METHODS: We conducted a questionnaire survey of the current status of tracheostomy and postoperative management at core institution of otorhinolaryngology training programs in Japan.
RESULTS: Responses were obtained from all 101 core training institutions in Japan. Tracheostomy was performed in the operating room at 61.4% of institutions and in the ICU at 26.7%. 89.1% of them performed surgical tracheostomy (ST) in all cases. Even in the remaining 10.9%, percutaneous dilatational tracheostomy (PDT) was performed in less than 10% of cases. The primary surgeon was an otorhinolaryngology resident at 89.1% of institutions. The method of securing the tube immediately after surgery was by securing it with an attached cord at 48.5% of institutions, by suturing to the skin at 25.7%, and using a Velcro band at 24.8%. The first tube change after tracheostomy was performed on the seventh postoperative day at 81.2% of institutions. 87.1% had more than one person performing the first tube change. The tracheostomy postoperative complications within the past year were as follows: tracheostomal granulation: 89.1%; subcutaneous and/or mediastinal emphysema: 62.4%; tube stenosis: 55.4%; accidental tube removal: 50.5%; incorrect tube insertion or misplacement: 15.8%; hemorrhage from tracheal foramen requiring hemostasis in the operating room: 14.9%; pneumothorax: 4.0%; tracheo-innominate arterial fistula: 2.0%; and tracheoesophageal fistula: 1.0%. The method for educating otorhinolaryngology residents about tracheostomy was on-the-job training at 98.0% of institutions.
CONCLUSIONS: For airway management in otorhinolaryngology training programs, after learning the basics of ST, PDT should also be well understood. Furthermore, in order to create safe educational programs for intraoperative and postoperative management, it is necessary to train otorhinolaryngologists with accurate knowledge and skills, and to strengthen collaboration with multiple professions in their leadership roles as airway surgeons.

Citation: Higashino M, et al. Tracheostomy in otorhinolaryngology education and training programs: A Japanese nationwide survey. Tracheostomy in otorhinolaryngology education and training programs: A Japanese nationwide survey. 2024; 51:69-75. doi: 10.1016/j.anl.2023.08.003

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37563043/
