PMID: 37560363
Title: Comparison of Intra-articular Knee Injection of Corticosteroid between Hemodialysis and Non-hemodialysis Patients.

Abstract: INTRODUCTION: Hemodialysis patients have various complications, and orthopedic diseases include carpal tunnel syndrome, spinal canal stenosis, spondylosis destruction, fractures, and osteoarthritis. As a treatment for knee osteoarthritis, intra-articular injections of hyaluronic acid and steroids are performed. In general, steroid injections have a strong short-term anti-inflammatory effect, but there is a risk of complications, such as infection. In addition to aging, dialysis patients are prone to weakened immune systems and susceptibility to infection. Therefore, more attention should be paid to the treatment of osteoarthritis in dialysis patients. This study aimed to compare the effects of steroid and complication of infection of dialysis and non-dialysis patients who underwent intra-articular steroid injection.
METHODS: A total of 20 dialysis patients (23 knees) and 20 non-dialysis patients (24 knees) with knee osteoarthritis who underwent steroid injections were investigated. All patients underwent radiographic diagnosis and were evaluated for the Western Ontario and McMaster Universities Osteoarthritis Index (WOMAC) score, visual analog scale (VAS), range of motion (ROM), and side effects before, and at 3, and 6 months after injection.
RESULTS: The mean body mass index (BMI) was 21.3 (±standard deviation (SD) 2.8) and 24.9 (±SD 2.6) in dialysis and non-dialysis patients, respectively, showing a significant difference. Both dialysis and non-dialysis patients showed statistically significant improvement in VAS and WOMAC scores after steroid injection. There were no significant differences between dialysis and non-dialysis patients in the gender differences and mean age. There were no infection complications in both groups.
CONCLUSIONS: This study revealed the analgesic effect of steroids on knee osteoarthritis in dialysis and non-dialysis patients. On the other hand, there were no infection complications in either patient. These findings suggest that intra-articular steroid injection is safe for dialysis patients.

Citation: Tabata Y, et al. Comparison of Intra-articular Knee Injection of Corticosteroid between Hemodialysis and Non-hemodialysis Patients. Comparison of Intra-articular Knee Injection of Corticosteroid between Hemodialysis and Non-hemodialysis Patients. 2023; 6:307-311. doi: 10.31662/jmaj.2023-0020

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37560363/
