PMID: 37573994
Title: Advantages of Totally Stapled Collard Over Circular Stapled Technique for Cervical Esophagectomy Anastomosis.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: The quality of life between the totally stapled Collard (TSC) and circular stapled (CS) techniques from the patient's perspective has not been assessed. This longitudinal patient-reported outcome and objective data assessment study aimed to compare the effects of TSC vs CS for cervical anastomosis with minimally invasive esophagectomy (MIE) on the quality of life.
METHODS: This single-center, retrospective study included patients with esophageal cancer who underwent MIE and cervical anastomosis between April 2019 and February 2021; of whom, 105 and 216 patients received TSC and CS anastomosis, respectively. The objective metrics were evaluated based on postoperative complications. Patient-reported outcomes instruments using the European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer modules were assessed preoperatively. The Quality of Life Questionnaire (QLQ) Core 30 and the QLQ-Oesophagus Module 18 assessed the quality of life. Mixed-effects models examined changes in questionnaire scores.
RESULTS: The stenosis rate in the TSC group was significantly lower than that in the CS group. There were no significant differences in other postoperative complications between the groups. In the QLQ Core 30 scale, the TSC group had better emotional function, less fatigue, less appetite loss, and better function than the CS group, with significant differences in different time points between the groups. QLQ-Oesophagus Module 18 revealed that the TSC group had significantly less appetite loss, dysphagia, dry mouth, pain, and obstruction, and better eating and speech than the CS group.
CONCLUSIONS: TSC has significant advantages over the CS technique in lowering postoperative symptom burden and improving quality of life for cervical anastomosis on patient-reported outcomes.

Citation: Wang K, et al. Advantages of Totally Stapled Collard Over Circular Stapled Technique for Cervical Esophagectomy Anastomosis. Advantages of Totally Stapled Collard Over Circular Stapled Technique for Cervical Esophagectomy Anastomosis. 2024; 117:1025-1033. doi: 10.1016/j.athoracsur.2023.07.040

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37573994/
