PMID: 37579636
Title: Exploring molecular profiles of calcification in aortic vascular smooth muscle cells and aortic valvular interstitial cells.

Abstract: Cardiovascular calcification can occur in vascular and valvular structures and is commonly associated with calcium deposition and tissue mineralization leading to stiffness and dysfunction. Patients with chronic kidney disease and associated hyperphosphatemia have an elevated risk for coronary artery calcification (CAC) and calcific aortic valve disease (CAVD). However, there is mounting evidence to suggest that the susceptibility and pathobiology of calcification in these two cardiovascular structures may be different, yet clinically they are similarly treated. To better understand diversity in molecular and cellular processes that underlie hyperphosphatemia-induced calcification in vascular and valvular structures, we exposed aortic vascular smooth muscle cells (AVSMCs) and aortic valve interstitial cells (AVICs) to high (2.5 mM) phosphate (Ph) conditions in vitro, and examined cell-specific responses. To further identify hyperphosphatemic-specific responses, parallel studies were performed using osteogenic media (OM) as an alternative calcific stimulus. Consistent with clinical observations made by others, we show that AVSMCs are more susceptible to calcification than AVICs. In addition, bulk RNA-sequencing reveals that AVSMCs and AVICs activate robust ossification-programs in response to high phosphate or OM treatments, however, the signaling pathways, cellular processes and osteogenic-associated markers involved are cell- and treatment-specific. For example, compared to VSMCs, VIC-mediated calcification involves biological processes related to osteo-chondro differentiation and down regulation of 'actin cytoskeleton'-related genes, that are not observed in VSMCs. Furthermore, hyperphosphatemic-induced calcification in AVICs and AVSMCs is independent of P13K signaling, which plays a role in OM-treated cells. Together, this study provides a wealth of information suggesting that the pathogenesis of cardiovascular calcifications is significantly more diverse than previously appreciated.

Citation: Kessler JR, et al. Exploring molecular profiles of calcification in aortic vascular smooth muscle cells and aortic valvular interstitial cells. Exploring molecular profiles of calcification in aortic vascular smooth muscle cells and aortic valvular interstitial cells. 2023; 183:1-13. doi: 10.1016/j.yjmcc.2023.08.001

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37579636/
