PMID: 37575688
Title: Evaluation of the Relationship between Family History and Occurrence, Anatomical Location, and Extent of Coronary Artery Disease among Patients Undergoing Coronary Angiography.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: A positive family history (FH) of coronary artery disease (CAD) is considered an independent risk factor for developing CAD. However, the relationship between the occurrence, angiographic anatomical location of the stenosis, and extent of CAD and the risk factors in the patients and their relatives is not well defined. Evaluation of this relationship is our main goal in this study.
METHODS: In this descriptive cross-sectional study, the FH data for CAD and premature death in first-and second-degree relatives, angiographic anatomical location of the stenosis, the extent of CAD in the patients and their relatives, as well as the relationship between other risk factors and the extent of CAD, were collected from 300 adult patients undergoing coronary angiography at Farshchian cardiovascular hospital in Hamadan (Iran) between March 2020 and 2021. SPSS 24 and the chi-square, Fisher exact, and student t tests were used to analyze data. The significance level was considered P &lt; 0.05.
RESULTS: Out of 300 patients, 185 (61.7%) were men and 115 (38.3%) were women. A total of 177 patients (59%) in maternal and 82 patients (27.3%) in paternal relatives had an FH of CAD. There was a significant relationship between the severity of coronary artery involvement and risk factors (P &lt; 0.001). Moreover, there was no significant relationship between the location of coronary artery involvement of the right coronary artery, left coronary artery, and left anterior descending artery and the severity of involvement of patients undergoing coronary angiography and their first- and second-degree relatives (P = 0.480).
CONCLUSION: Our findings suggest that there was no significant relationship between the anatomical location of the stenosis and the number of vessels involved and the FH of the patients. In patients with an FH, the extent of CAD significantly increased according to their risk factors for heart disease.

Citation: Ashrafi V, et al. Evaluation of the Relationship between Family History and Occurrence, Anatomical Location, and Extent of Coronary Artery Disease among Patients Undergoing Coronary Angiography. Evaluation of the Relationship between Family History and Occurrence, Anatomical Location, and Extent of Coronary Artery Disease among Patients Undergoing Coronary Angiography. 2023; 37:69. doi: 10.47176/mjiri.37.69

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37575688/
