PMID: 37574629
Title: Roux-en-Y biliary reconstruction as a definitive treatment for serious complications of portal biliopathy. Case series.

Abstract: INTRODUCTION AND IMPORTANCE: Portal biliopathy (PB) is an abnormality of the biliary tree wall due to extrahepatic portal hypertension. Among the complications of portal biliopathy are digestive bleeding, jaundice, and cholangitis. Surgical treatment is an exception when medical management is not possible.
CASE PRESENTATION: This is a case series study of four patients with severe PB complications requiring surgical management in our center from 2005 to 2016. Two of them had previous surgical procedures related to portal hypertension. All presented with severe biliary stenosis and recurrent cholangitis, and two also had massive upper gastrointestinal bleeding. Because of endoscopic management failure, a Roux-en-Y hepaticojejunostomy was performed in all cases. Two patients presented morbidity Clavien-Dindo>IIIA, requiring reoperation. During follow-up, no one developed other complications related to PB.
DISCUSSION: Surgical treatment for PB complications is a challenge and mainly implies a portosystemic shunt as a first step. When it fails, an alternative is perform a biliodigestive anastomoses, with high risk of bleeding given the prominent collaterals present in the hepatoduodenal pedicle secondary to portal cavernomatosis.
CONCLUSION: Our patients after YRGB didn't present new complications due to PB. The surgery could be a definite solution for PB complications. It has only been made for selective cases because it implies high complexity and risk.

Citation: Ochoa G, et al. Roux-en-Y biliary reconstruction as a definitive treatment for serious complications of portal biliopathy. Case series. Roux-en-Y biliary reconstruction as a definitive treatment for serious complications of portal biliopathy. Case series. 2023; 110:108571. doi: 10.1016/j.ijscr.2023.108571

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37574629/
