PMID: 37598548
Title: Association between vertebrobasilar artery geometry and vertebrobasilar stenosis, recurrence, and death in posterior circulation stroke and transient ischemic attack.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Intracranial atherosclerosis is one of the primary causes of posterior circulation stroke and transient ischemic attack (TIA), particularly in people of South and East Asian heritage. Focal vessel geometry may play a role in atherosclerosis progression. Thus, we investigated the relevance of vertebrobasilar artery (VBA) geometry and vertebrobasilar atherosclerotic stenosis, recurrence, and death in posterior circulation stroke and TIA.
METHODS: Four hundred and twenty patients with posterior circulation ischemic stroke or TIA were included. The VBA geometric features, comprising the geometric configurations (Tuning fork, Walking, Lambda, and No confluence), vascular bends (multi-bending and oligo-bending), and VBA stenosis degrees, were defined based on computed tomography angiography (CTA) images. Recurrence of stroke or TIA and death were assessed through a 1-year follow-up. Additionally, the relationship between VBA geometric features, VBA stenosis, and prognosis were analyzed.
RESULTS: Walking type and vascular multi-bending showed significant associations with more severe VBA stenosis and distribution, and these were also more frequently observed in patients with large-artery atherosclerosis (LAA) stroke (all P < 0.05). Sixty-four patients exhibited recurrent stroke or TIA, and 31 died during the 1-year follow-up. In the binary logistic regression analysis, Walking type (P = 0.018), Lambda type (P = 0.021), and multi-bending type (P = 0.004) were found to be independently associated with stroke recurrence, while No confluence type was independently associated with death (P = 0.010).
CONCLUSIONS: The geometric characteristics of the VBA are associated with vertebrobasilar stenosis, LAA stroke, 1-year recurrence, and death in posterior circulation stroke and TIA. VBA geometry may be used to stratify the risk of stroke and TIA in the posterior circulation.

Citation: Qu M, et al. Association between vertebrobasilar artery geometry and vertebrobasilar stenosis, recurrence, and death in posterior circulation stroke and transient ischemic attack. Association between vertebrobasilar artery geometry and vertebrobasilar stenosis, recurrence, and death in posterior circulation stroke and transient ischemic attack. 2023; 32:107306. doi: 10.1016/j.jstrokecerebrovasdis.2023.107306

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37598548/
