PMID: 37599135
Title: Readability and quality of online patient resources regarding knee osteoarthritis and lumbar spinal stenosis in Japan.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: This study aimed to quantify the readability and quality of online patient resources on knee osteoarthritis and lumbar spinal stenosis in Japan.
METHODS: Three search engines (Google, Yahoo, and Bing) were searched for the terms knee osteoarthritis and lumbar spinal stenosis. The first 30 websites of each search were screened. Duplicate websites and those unrelated to the searched diseases were excluded. The remaining 125 websites (62 on knee osteoarthritis, 63 on lumbar spinal stenosis) were analyzed. The text readability was assessed using two web-based programs (Obi-3 and Readability Research Lab) and lexical density. Website quality was evaluated using the DISCERN score, Clear Communication Index, and Journal of American Medical Association benchmark criteria.
RESULTS: Readability scores were high, indicating that the texts were difficult to understand. Only 24 (19%) and six (5%) websites were classified as average difficulty readability according to Obi-3 and Readability Research Lab, respectively. The overall quality of information was low, with only four (3%) being rated as having sufficient quality based on the Clear Communication Index and Journal of American Medical Association benchmark criteria. None of the websites satisfied the DISCERN quality criteria.
CONCLUSIONS: Patient information on Japanese websites regarding knee osteoarthritis and lumbar spinal stenosis were difficult to understand. Moreover, the quality of the websites was insufficient. Orthopaedic surgeons should contribute to the creation of high-quality easy-to-read websites to facilitate patient-physician communication.

Citation: Yamamura A, et al. Readability and quality of online patient resources regarding knee osteoarthritis and lumbar spinal stenosis in Japan. Readability and quality of online patient resources regarding knee osteoarthritis and lumbar spinal stenosis in Japan. 2024; 29:1313-1318. doi: 10.1016/j.jos.2023.08.003

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37599135/
