PMID: 37598487
Title: A 20-year follow-up of successful surgical management for a complex case of pentalogy of fallot and dextrocardia with systemic and pulmonary venous anomalies: A rare case report.

Abstract: INTRODUCTION AND IMPORTANCE: Pentaloy of fallot (POF) is a congenital cardiac anomaly that includes ventricular septal defect (VSD), pulmonary stenosis (PS), overriding of the aorta, and right ventricular hypertrophy. Dextrocardia, on the other hand, is a congenital condition in which the heart is right-sided. Rarely, both of these conditions can coexist. In this case, we report the 20-year follow-up results for the successful management of POF coexisting with Dextrocardia and other anomalies, which is the first described case in the literature.
CASE PRESENTATION: A 3.5-year-old boy was admitted to the hospital with the main complaint of cyanosis and dyspnea. He was diagnosed with POF. Intraoperative inspection further revealed a Double outlet right ventricle (DORV), and other cardiac anomalies. Total repair surgery was successfully performed. Follow-up results showed a normal postoperative status with no abnormalities. Mild exertional dyspnea was noted after 20 years, but the patient is currently in good health.
CLINICAL DISCUSSION: The coexistence of multiple congenital cardiac anomalies can make it challenging to be completely diagnosed, and for this purpose, different preoperative studies are recommended, like Echocardiography, cardiac catheterization, and Transabdominal echography. For the treatment of POF, pulmonary valve-sparing techniques have shown better long-term results, making them the preferred choice over other techniques.
CONCLUSION: Very few cases reported the occurrence of Dextrocardia with POF and additional cardiac anomalies. Echocardiography and Transabdominal echography play a very important role in the preoperative diagnosis of such complex cases. Surgery is the standard treatment for these congenital malformations.

Citation: Ahmad Y and Mossa H. A 20-year follow-up of successful surgical management for a complex case of pentalogy of fallot and dextrocardia with systemic and pulmonary venous anomalies: A rare case report. A 20-year follow-up of successful surgical management for a complex case of pentalogy of fallot and dextrocardia with systemic and pulmonary venous anomalies: A rare case report. 2023; 110:108672. doi: 10.1016/j.ijscr.2023.108672

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37598487/
