PMID: 37598480
Title: Numerical simulation of the cavopulmonary connection flow with conduit stenoses of varying configurations.

Abstract: The circulation in the total cavopulmonary connection (TCPC) is a low-energy system which operation and efficiency are subjected to multiple factors. Some retrospective studies report that the abnormal narrowing of vessels in the system, i.e. stenosis, is one of the most dangerous geometric factors which can result in heart failure. In the present study, the effect of varying extracardiac conduit (ECC) stenosis on the hemodynamics in a surrogate TCPC model is investigated using high-fidelity numerical simulations. The efficiency of the surrogate TCPC model was quantified according to the power loss, relative perfusion in lungs and the percentage of conduit surface area with abnormally low and high wall shear stress for venous flow. Additionally, the impact of respiration and asymmetry in the stenosis geometry to the system was examined. The results show that the flow in the TCPC model exhibits pronounced unsteadiness even under the steady initial boundary conditions, while the uneven pulmonary flow distribution and the presence of the ECC stenosis amplify the chaotic nature of the flow. Energy efficiency of the system is shown to strongly correlate with amount of vortical structures in the model and their range of scales. Finally, the study demonstrates that the presence of respiration in the model adds to perturbations in the flow which causes increase in the power loss. Results obtained in the study provide valuable insights on how the ECC stenosis effect the flow in the surrogate TCPC model under different flow conditions.

Citation: Timofeeva M, et al. Numerical simulation of the cavopulmonary connection flow with conduit stenoses of varying configurations. Numerical simulation of the cavopulmonary connection flow with conduit stenoses of varying configurations. 2023; 164:107358. doi: 10.1016/j.compbiomed.2023.107358

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37598480/
