PMID: 37612651
Title: Aortic valve Replacement compared to Transcatheter Implant and its relationship with COgnitive Impairment (ARTICO) evaluated with neuropsychological and advanced neuroimaging: a longitudinal cohort study.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Aortic stenosis is the most common valvulopathy in Western countries. The treatment of choice had been surgery aortic valve replacement (SAVR), but the improvement in endovascular approaches as transcatheter aortic valve implantation (TAVI), initially reserved for patients with very high surgical risk, has been extended to high and intermediate, and recently also to low-risk patients. Stroke and vascular cognitive impairment are the most important complications. It is not entirely clear which technique is best to avoid these complications as well as their impact. Our goal is to evaluate changes in cognitive performance in the early (1-month) and late (1-year) postoperative period in patients undergoing SAVR or TAVI, by extensive neuropsychological study (NRP) and advanced Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI). Specifically, to compare early and late cognitive changes after the intervention between both groups, the occurrence of stroke during follow-up and to compare the appearance of silent vascular lesions and changes in brain activity and functional connectivity with functional MRI during follow-up between both groups.
METHODS/DESIGN: Prospective longitudinal cohort study. A non-selected representative sample of 80 subjects, 40 SAVR and 40 TAVI to obtain a final sample of 36 eligible subjects in each group, ranging from 70 to 85 years old, with indication for aortic replacement and intermediate or high surgical risk will be studied. At baseline, within one month before the treatment, all individuals will undergo an extensive NRP and advanced MRI study. These studies will also be performed 1-month and 1-year after treatment, to assess the appearance of new vascular lesions, as well as changes in cognitive performance with respect to baseline.
DISCUSSION: This study aims to evaluate changes in cognitive performance as well as both clinical and silent vascular events occurring in the early (1-month) and late (1-year) periods after SAVR and TAVI. We will also analyze the correlation between neuropsychological and neuroimaging approaches in order to evaluate cognition. Therefore, it may provide high-quality data of cognitive changes and vascular events for both techniques, and be useful to tailor interventions to individual characteristics and ultimately aiding in decision-making.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: This study is register in Clinicaltrials.gov (NCT05235529) on 11th February 2022.

Citation: Gomis M, et al. Aortic valve Replacement compared to Transcatheter Implant and its relationship with COgnitive Impairment (ARTICO) evaluated with neuropsychological and advanced neuroimaging: a longitudinal cohort study. Aortic valve Replacement compared to Transcatheter Implant and its relationship with COgnitive Impairment (ARTICO) evaluated with neuropsychological and advanced neuroimaging: a longitudinal cohort study. 2023; 23:310. doi: 10.1186/s12883-023-03362-9

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37612651/
