PMID: 37619916
Title: Evaluating the influence of altered cerebral hemodynamics on cognitive performance in asymptomatic carotid artery stenosis: A systematic review.

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: Substantial controversy exists regarding asymptomatic carotid stenosis (ACS) and its potential role in the pathophysiology of cognitive impairment. If proven, this hypothesis may suggest an additional definition for symptomatic carotid disease that would alter current management. This study aimed to synthesize the literature evaluating the relationship between impaired cerebral hemodynamics and cognition in patients with ACS.
METHODS: A literature search was performed using MEDLINE, Embase, and EBM Reviews through May 2022. We included prospective case-control studies that used validated, objective measure(s) of either global cognition or one or more domains of cognitive function and assessed cerebrovascular reserve (CVR).
RESULTS: Five studies were included, comprising a total of 782 patients with moderate (50%-69%) to severe (70%-99%) ACS. Patients with ACS and impaired ipsilateral CVR demonstrated significant cognitive impairment compared with controls. Patients with unilateral or bilateral ACS and normal CVR had cognitive scores similar to controls. Those with bilateral CVR impairment demonstrated the lowest cognitive scores.
CONCLUSIONS: This review lends support to the claim that cognitive impairment, likely the result of impaired cerebral hemodynamics, is an under-recognized morbidity in patients with ACS. CVR may serve as an additional tool to determine whether patients are in fact symptomatic from their carotid stenosis and warrant consideration for intervention.

Citation: Bhandari A, et al. Evaluating the influence of altered cerebral hemodynamics on cognitive performance in asymptomatic carotid artery stenosis: A systematic review. Evaluating the influence of altered cerebral hemodynamics on cognitive performance in asymptomatic carotid artery stenosis: A systematic review. 2024; 79:436-447. doi: 10.1016/j.jvs.2023.08.111

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37619916/
