PMID: 37634475
Title: Allyl isothiocyanate mitigates airway inflammation and constriction in a house dust mite-induced allergic asthma model via upregulation of tight junction proteins and the TRPA1 modulation.

Abstract: Asthma is a chronic inflammatory disease that has been associated with insufficient vegetable intake. Allyl Isothiocyanate (AITC) is a natural isothiocyanate found in cruciferous plants with anti-inflammatory and antioxidant abilities. Our study aimed to investigate the potential effect of AITC on tracheal constriction in a house dust mite (HDM)-induced asthma animal model, and explore the underlying mechanisms. To investigate the effects of AITC on HDM-induced allergic asthma model, established by intranasally administering extracts of HDM and AITC or DEX was given orally for four weeks. Flexivent SCIREQ, H&amp;E staining, ELISA were employed to evaluate the lung function and the cytokine secretion. Possible mechanisms were determined by Western blot. Rat tracheae contraction was measured by Labscribe. We utilized lung epithelial cells (BEAS-2B) to assess the adhesion response to the combination of inflammatory factors TNF-α and IL-4. The results of the study showed that AITC significantly reduced tracheal constriction in ex vivo experiments and improved lung function in in vivo experiments compared to HDM-induced mice. Additionally, AITC decreased cytokine secretion, inflammatory cell infiltration in the lung, and constriction-related proteins expression in both lung and tracheae. Moreover, AITC increased tight junction-related protein expression in lung tissues. In vitro experiments showed that AITC had a protective effect through TRPA1 channel without affecting cell viability. Our results demonstrate that AITC has potential anti-asthma effects in HDM-induced asthma models by alleviating airway inflammation and airway constriction through increasing tight junction-related protein expression and suppressing Ca2+ signaling. These findings suggest that AITC may be a beneficial adjuvant therapy in asthma treatment.

Citation: Lai YH, et al. Allyl isothiocyanate mitigates airway inflammation and constriction in a house dust mite-induced allergic asthma model via upregulation of tight junction proteins and the TRPA1 modulation. Allyl isothiocyanate mitigates airway inflammation and constriction in a house dust mite-induced allergic asthma model via upregulation of tight junction proteins and the TRPA1 modulation. 2023; 166:115334. doi: 10.1016/j.biopha.2023.115334

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37634475/
