PMID: 37644545
Title: Lumbar vertebral canal stenosis due to marked bone overgrowth after routine hemilaminectomy in a dog.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Bone overgrowth after decompressive surgery for lumbar stenosis resulting in recurrence of neurological signs has not been reported in veterinary literature. However, there are few cases described in human medicine.
CASE PRESENTATION: A 13-month-old entire female dog, a crossbreed between a Springer Spaniel and a Border Collie, weighing 24 kg, was referred with a 5-day history of progressive spastic paraplegia, indicative of a T3-L3 myelopathy. Magnetic resonance (MR) imaging revealed a right-sided L2-L3 compressive extradural lesion, compatible with epidural haemorrhage, which was confirmed by histopathology. The lesion was approached via right-sided L2-L3 hemilaminectomy and was successfully removed. One-year postoperatively the dog re-presented with pelvic limb ataxia. MR and computed tomography (CT) images demonstrated excessive vertebral bone formation affecting the right articular processes, ventral aspect of the spinous process of L2-L3, and contiguous vertebral laminae, causing spinal cord compression. Revision surgery was performed, and histopathology revealed normal or reactive osseous tissue with a possible chondroid metaplasia and endochondral ossification, failing to identify a definitive reason for the bone overgrowth. Nine-month postoperatively, imaging studies showed a similar vertebral overgrowth, resulting in minimal spinal cord compression. The patient remained stable with mild proprioceptive ataxia up until the last follow-up 18 months post-revision surgery.
CONCLUSION: This is the first report in the veterinary literature of bone overgrowth after lumbar hemilaminectomy which resulted in neurological deficits and required a revision decompressive surgery.

Citation: Tavola F, et al. Lumbar vertebral canal stenosis due to marked bone overgrowth after routine hemilaminectomy in a dog. Lumbar vertebral canal stenosis due to marked bone overgrowth after routine hemilaminectomy in a dog. 2023; 65:37. doi: 10.1186/s13028-023-00700-2

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37644545/
