PMID: 37642740
Title: Successful rescue pneumovesicoscopic surgery for post-Deflux® vesicoureteral junction obstruction.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Vesicoureteral junction (VUJ) obstruction after Deflux® subureteral injection for vesicoureteral reflux (VUR) is rare and minimally invasive management has not been reported. This work investigated the patients who underwent Deflux® injection for VUR and identified those with subsequent VUJ obstruction.
METHODS: Medical records of matched patients from October 2003 to March 2022 were reviewed, and parameters were retrospectively studied. All patients underwent Deflux® injection. The injection was performed under general anesthesia using the same manner. For patients complicated with VUJ obstruction, the symptoms, signs, management, images, renal ultrasounds, Tc-99m dimercaptosuccinic acid renal scintigraphy, histology of VUJ region, and outcomes were documented and reported. VUJ stenosis was diagnosed by performing renal ultrasound and magnetic resonance imaging.
RESULTS: Totally 407 patients (554 ureterorenal units) received Dx/HA injections for VUR. VUJ obstruction was found in three patients (four ureterorenal units). Originally, three were grade V VUR, and one was grade IV. The repeated injection was not a risk factor for VUJ obstruction. The overall incidence of VUJ obstruction post-Dx/HA injection was 0.7% by ureter. The incidences were 0%, 0.75%, and 2.25% for grade I-III, IV, and V VUR, respectively. After the initial conversion case of pneumovesicoscopic ureteral reimplantation, the procedure was performed smoothly and successfully in the two following cases.
CONCLUSIONS: Pneumovesicoscopic ureteral reimplantation offers an alternative for VUJ obstruction following Dx/HA injection for VUR. Fibrosis and foreign-body reaction may influence the feasibility. High-grade VUR and young age of injection were related to VUJ obstruction.

Citation: Yang LY, et al. Successful rescue pneumovesicoscopic surgery for post-Deflux® vesicoureteral junction obstruction. Successful rescue pneumovesicoscopic surgery for post-Deflux® vesicoureteral junction obstruction. 2023; 39:254. doi: 10.1007/s00383-023-05538-3

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37642740/
