PMID: 37640606
Title: Radiologically-guided balloon sialoplasty for benign salivary duct obstruction: a 7-year UK service evaluation.

Abstract: Obstructive sialadenitis is the most common cause of non-malignant salivary gland disorders, with salivary gland strictures being responsible for approximately 23% of all benign obstructive disease. Significant advances in minimally invasive techniques, including radiologically-guided balloon sialoplasty, offer the potential for successful treatment with reduced complications. At present there is a paucity of follow-up data regarding patient outcomes and repeat interventions in those undergoing the procedure. Patients with parotid or submandibular gland sialadenitis secondary to gland stricture were identified and underwent radiologically-guided balloon sialoplasty at Queen Alexandra Hospital, Portsmouth, UK between 2015 and 2022. Patient outcomes, complications and reintervention rates were recorded prospectively over the seven-year period and analysed retrospectively. A total of 44 patients underwent radiologically-guided balloon sialoplasty. Forty (89%) underwent sialoplasty for parotid gland disease, with a minority (n = 5) receiving an intervention for submandibular gland strictures. A total of 37 (84%) had their obstruction successfully treated (82% of parotid gland obstructions and 100% of submandibular gland obstructions). Five patients (11%) required a repeat intervention. Seventeen successfully treated patients (85%) who attended follow-up clinic appointments described complete resolution of their symptoms, with the remaining three (15%) describing a partial response. Radiologically-guided balloon sialoplasty for the treatment of benign obstructive sialadenitis secondary to a gland stricture is a safe and effective method of eliminating the obstruction and relieving patients' symptoms. Most patients were symptom free at short-term follow up, with a minority requiring a second sialoplastic intervention.

Citation: Cowen J, et al. Radiologically-guided balloon sialoplasty for benign salivary duct obstruction: a 7-year UK service evaluation. Radiologically-guided balloon sialoplasty for benign salivary duct obstruction: a 7-year UK service evaluation. 2023; 61:547-552. doi: 10.1016/j.bjoms.2023.07.007

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37640606/
