PMID: 37648537
Title: Continuous Monitoring of Changes in Heart Rate during the Periprocedural Course of Carotid Artery Stenting Using a Wearable Device: A Prospective Observational Study.

Abstract: This prospective observational study will evaluate the change in heart rate (HR) during the periprocedural course of carotid artery stenting (CAS) via continuous monitoring using a wearable device. The participants were recruited from our outpatient clinic between April 2020 and March 2023. They were instructed to continuously wear the device from the last outpatient visit before admission to the first outpatient visit after discharge. The changes in HR of interest throughout the periprocedural course of CAS were assessed. In addition, the Bland-Altman analysis was adopted to compare the HR measurement made by the wearable device during CAS with that made by the electrocardiogram (ECG). A total of 12 patients who underwent CAS were included in the final analysis. The time-series analysis revealed that a percentage change in HR decrease occurred on day 1 following CAS and that the most significant HR decrease rate was 12.1% on day 4 following CAS. In comparing the measurements made by the wearable device and ECG, the Bland-Altman analysis revealed the accuracy of the wearable device with a bias of -1.12 beats per minute (bpm) and a precision of 3.16 bpm. Continuous HR monitoring using the wearable device indicated that the decrease in HR following CAS could persist much longer than previously reported, providing us with unique insights into the physiology of carotid sinus baroreceptors.

Citation: Hirai K, et al. Continuous Monitoring of Changes in Heart Rate during the Periprocedural Course of Carotid Artery Stenting Using a Wearable Device: A Prospective Observational Study. Continuous Monitoring of Changes in Heart Rate during the Periprocedural Course of Carotid Artery Stenting Using a Wearable Device: A Prospective Observational Study. 2023; 63:526-534. doi: 10.2176/jns-nmc.2023-0093

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37648537/
