PMID: 37646211
Title: Prognostic Impact of Mitral Regurgitation Before and After Transcatheter Aortic Valve Replacement in Patients With Severe Low-Flow, Low-Gradient Aortic Stenosis.

Abstract: Background There is little evidence about the prognostic role of mitral regurgitation (MR) in patients with low-flow, low-gradient aortic stenosis undergoing transcatheter aortic valve replacement (TAVR). The aim of this study was to assess the prevalence and outcome implications of MR severity in patients with low-flow, low-gradient aortic stenosis undergoing TAVR, and to evaluate whether MR improvement after TAVR could influence clinical outcome. Methods and Results This study included consecutive patients with low-flow, low-gradient aortic stenosis undergoing TAVR at 2 Italian high-volume centers. The study population was categorized according to the baseline MR severity and to the presence of MR improvement at discharge. The primary outcome was the composite of all-cause death and hospitalization for worsening heart failure up to 1 year. The study included 268 patients; 57 (21%) patients showed MR &gt;2+. Patients with MR &gt;2+ showed a lower 1-year survival free from the primary outcome (P&lt;0.001), all-cause death (P&lt;0.001), and heart failure hospitalization (P&lt;0.001) compared with patients with MR ≤2+. At multivariable analysis, baseline MR &gt;2+ was an independent predictor of the primary outcome (P&lt;0.001). Among patients with baseline MR &gt;2+, MR improvement was reported in 24 (44%) cases after TAVR. The persistence of MR was associated with a significantly reduced survival free from the primary outcome, all-cause death, and heart failure hospitalization up to 1 year. Conclusions In this study, the presence of moderately severe to severe MR in patients with low-flow, low-gradient aortic stenosis undergoing TAVR portends a worse clinical outcome at 1 year. TAVR may improve MR severity in nearly half of the patients, resulting in a potential outcome benefit after discharge.

Citation: Ferruzzi GJ, et al. Prognostic Impact of Mitral Regurgitation Before and After Transcatheter Aortic Valve Replacement in Patients With Severe Low-Flow, Low-Gradient Aortic Stenosis. Prognostic Impact of Mitral Regurgitation Before and After Transcatheter Aortic Valve Replacement in Patients With Severe Low-Flow, Low-Gradient Aortic Stenosis. 2023; 12:e029553. doi: 10.1161/JAHA.123.029553

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37646211/
