PMID: 37645524
Title: Particularities of coronary physiology in patients with atrial fibrillation: insights from combined pressure and flow indices measurements.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Symptoms suggestive of myocardial ischemia are frequently encountered in patients with atrial fibrillation (AF) even in the absence of obstructive coronary artery disease. Nevertheless, an in-depth characterisation of coronary physiology in patients with AF is currently lacking.
OBJECTIVES: We aim to provide an insight into the characteristics of coronary physiology in AF, by performing simultaneous invasive measurements of coronary flow- and pressure- indices in a real-life population of patients with AF and indication of coronary angiography.
METHODS: This is a prospective open label study including patients with permanent or persistent AF and indication of coronary angiography showing intermediate coronary stenosis requiring routine physiological assessment (n = 18 vessels from 14 patients). We measured FFR (fractional flow reserve), and Doppler-derived coronary flow indices, including CFR (coronary flow reserve) and HMR (hyperaemic microvascular resistance).
RESULTS: From the analysed vessels, 18/18 vessels (100%) presented a pathological CFR (<2.5), indicative of coronary microvascular dysfunction (CMD), and 3/18 (17%) demonstrated obstructive epicardial coronary disease (FFR ≤ 0.8). A large proportion of vessels (15/18; 83%) showed discordant FFR/CFR with preserved FFR and low CFR. 47% of the coronary arteries in patients with AF and non-obstructive epicardial coronary disease presented structural CMD (HMR ≥ 2.5 mmHg/cm/s), and were associated with high BMR and an impaired response to adenosine. Conversely, vessels from patients with AF and non-obstructive epicardial coronary disease with functional CMD (HMR < 2.5 mmHg/cm/s) showed higher bAPV. The permanent AF subpopulation presented increased values of HMR and BMR compared to persistent AF, while structural CMD was more often associated with persistent symptoms at 3 months, taking into account the limited sample size of our study.
CONCLUSION: Our findings highlight a systematically impaired CFR in patients with AF even in the absence of obstructive epicardial coronary disease, indicative of CMD. In addition, patients with AF presented more prevalent structural CMD (HMR ≥ 2.5 mmHg/cm/s), characterized by reduced hyperaemic responses to adenosine, possibly interfering with the FFR assessment.

Citation: Pintea Bentea G, et al. Particularities of coronary physiology in patients with atrial fibrillation: insights from combined pressure and flow indices measurements. Particularities of coronary physiology in patients with atrial fibrillation: insights from combined pressure and flow indices measurements. 2023; 10:1206743. doi: 10.3389/fcvm.2023.1206743

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37645524/
