PMID: 37652153
Title: Omentin-1 enhances the inhibitory effect of endothelial progenitor cells on neointimal hyperplasia by inhibiting the p38 MAPK/CREB pathway.

Abstract: AIMS: Endothelial progenitor cells (EPCs) play an important role in vascular repair. However, they are dysfunctional in the inflammatory microenvironment during restenosis. In this study, we investigated whether omentin-1, an anti-inflammatory factor, could reduce neointima formation after carotid artery injury (CAI) in rats by improving EPC functions that were damaged by inflammation and the underlying mechanisms.
MAIN METHODS: EPCs were transfected with adenoviral vectors expressing human omentin-1 or green fluorescent protein (GFP). Then, the rats received 2 × 106 EPCs expressing omentin-1 or GFP by tail vein injection directly after CAI and again 24 h later. Hematoxylin-eosin staining and immunohistochemistry were used for analyzing neointimal hyperplasia. Besides, EPCs were treated with omentin-1 and TNF-α to examine the underlying mechanism.
KEY FINDINGS: Our results showed that omentin-1 could significantly improve EPC functions, including proliferation, apoptosis and tube formation. Meanwhile, EPCs overexpressed with omentin-1 could significantly reduce neointimal hyperplasia and tumor necrosis factor-α (TNF-α) expression after CAI in rats. TNF-α could notably induce EPC dysfunction, which could be markedly reversed by omentin-1 through the inhibition of the p38 MAPK/CREB pathway. Furthermore, a p38 MAPK agonist (anisomycin) significantly abrogated the protective effects of omentin-1 on EPCs damaged by TNF-α.
SIGNIFICANCE: Our results indicated that genetically modifying EPC with omentin-1 could be an alternative strategy for the treatment of restenosis.

Citation: Xiang Y, et al. Omentin-1 enhances the inhibitory effect of endothelial progenitor cells on neointimal hyperplasia by inhibiting the p38 MAPK/CREB pathway. Omentin-1 enhances the inhibitory effect of endothelial progenitor cells on neointimal hyperplasia by inhibiting the p38 MAPK/CREB pathway. 2023; 331:122061. doi: 10.1016/j.lfs.2023.122061

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37652153/
