PMID: 37657129
Title: Cadaver investigation of the usefulness of the transstyloid diaphragm approach for high-position plaque carotid endarterectomy.

Abstract: OBJECTIVES: Patients sometimes present with high cervical internal carotid artery (ICA) stenosis. This study demonstrates the usefulness of the transstyloid approach to expose the distal ICA by dissection of the styloid diaphragm covering the distal cervical ICA for carotid endarterectomy (CEA). In particular, the possible exposure length achieved by this approach was investigated using cadaveric heads.
METHODS: The procedure of the transstyloid diaphragm approach was confirmed in 10 cadaveric heads (20 sides). After the carotid triangle was opened, both the posterior belly of the digastric muscle (PBDM) and the stylohyoid muscle could be divided. Then, the carotid sheath was dissected, and the glossopharyngeal nerve was identified crossing over the distal ICA. The revealed length of the ICA was measured with or without dissection of both the PBDM and the stylohyoid muscle. The specimens were dissected under the surgical microscope.
RESULTS: The transstyloid diaphragm approach was achieved successfully in all specimens. The revealed lengths of the ICA with and without dissection of the styloid diaphragm were 53.7 ± 5.9 mm and 38.8 ± 2.9 mm (mean ± standard deviation), respectively. Therefore, the revealed length of the distal ICA was 14.9 ± 4.5 mm greater using the transstyloid diaphragm approach compared to the regular CEA approach.
CONCLUSIONS: More of the ICA can be revealed by dissection of both the PBDM and the stylohyoid muscle. The transstyloid diaphragm approach might be helpful to reveal the distal ICA in cases of high cervical ICA stenosis.

Citation: Nakagawa M, et al. Cadaver investigation of the usefulness of the transstyloid diaphragm approach for high-position plaque carotid endarterectomy. Cadaver investigation of the usefulness of the transstyloid diaphragm approach for high-position plaque carotid endarterectomy. 2023; 233:107948. doi: 10.1016/j.clineuro.2023.107948

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37657129/
