PMID: 37653369
Title: Pregnancy risk and contraception among reproductive-age women with rheumatic heart disease attending care at a tertiary cardiac center in Tanzania: a hospital-based cross-sectional study.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Rheumatic heart disease (RHD) remains prevalent in the developing world and reproductive-age women are disproportionately affected. It is among the common est cardiac diseases during pregnancy and is associated with poor pregnancy outcomes. Despite its importance among reproductive-age women, there are no local studies that characterize the clinical characteristics, risk of poor pregnancy outcomes and contraception which represents one effective way to prevent unplanned pregnancies in this population.
METHODS: This was a hospital-based descriptive cross-sectional study. Non-pregnant reproductive-age women with echocardiographically diagnosed RHD were consecutively recruited from in- and out-patients units of the Jakaya Kikwete Cardiac Institute (JKCI). A clinical research form was used to gather socio-demographic, clinical characteristics, contraception status and echocardiographic information. The maternal/pregnancy risk class was determined using the modified World Health Organization (WHO) classification of maternal risk.
RESULTS: Two hundred thirty-eight women of reproductive age with RHD were recruited. The median age (range) was 36 years (15-49). Two-thirds were dyspneic on moderate exertion and 17.2% had New York Heart Association class IV heart failure. A quarter had atrial fibrillation/flutter. On echocardiography, mitral regurgitation was the most common valvular lesion (68.1%), followed by mitral stenosis (66.8%), and 12.2% of participants had reduced left ventricular ejection fraction. Two-thirds (66%) had a high pregnancy risk (class IV) based on the modified WHO classification system. The proportion of participants using contraception was 7.1% and common methods were: bilateral tubal ligation 5 of 17 (29.4%) and hormonal implant (4 of 17). The most common reason for the choice of a method was safety, 10 out of 17 (58.8%).
CONCLUSION: The majority of women of reproductive age with RHD in our hospital cohort are at the highest pregnancy risk based on the modified WHO classification and a very small proportion of them are on contraception. These results call for action among clinicians to offer counselling to these patients, educating them on their risk and offering appropriate contraception advice while waiting for definitive interventions.

Citation: Paulo DG, et al. Pregnancy risk and contraception among reproductive-age women with rheumatic heart disease attending care at a tertiary cardiac center in Tanzania: a hospital-based cross-sectional study. Pregnancy risk and contraception among reproductive-age women with rheumatic heart disease attending care at a tertiary cardiac center in Tanzania: a hospital-based cross-sectional study. 2023; 23:404. doi: 10.1186/s12905-023-02332-0

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37653369/
