PMID: 37653473
Title: Milligan-Morgan hemorrhoidectomy combined with non-doppler hemorrhoidal artery ligation for the treatment of grade III/IV hemorrhoids: a single centre retrospective study.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Milligan-Morgan hemorrhoidectomy (MMH) is the most widely used surgical procedure because of its precise curative effect, but it has the disadvantages such as obvious postoperative pain and bleeding. To retrospectively evaluate the efficacy and safety of MMH combined with non-Doppler hemorrhoidal artery ligation (MMH + ND-HAL) for the treatment of grade III/IV hemorrhoids.
METHODS: We conducted a retrospective analysis of 115 patients with grade III/IV hemorrhoids, 53 patients had received MMH + ND-HAL, and the remaining 62 patients received MMH. We collected and compared demographic and clinical characteristics of both groups, including intraoperative blood loss, postoperative visual analog scale (VAS) for pain, analgesic consumption, postoperative bleeding, perianal incision edema, urinary retention, anal stenosis, anal incontinence incidence, recurrence rate (prolapse or bleeding), and patient satisfaction.
RESULTS: The VAS pain score of the first postoperative defecation and at the postoperative 12 h, 1 day, 2 days, 3 days, and 7 days, as well as the total analgesic consumption within 7 days, for the MMH + ND-HAL group were lower than those for the MMH group (P < 0.05). The intraoperative blood loss, the incidence of postoperative bleeding, perianal incision edema, and urinary retention in the MMH + ND-HAL group was lower than that in the MMH group (P < 0.05). No anal stenosis or anal incontinence occurred in either group. At follow-up by telephone or outpatient 12 months after surgery, the recurrence rate (prolapse or bleeding) was lower in the MMH + ND-HAL group than in the MMH group (P < 0.05), and satisfaction was higher in the MMH + ND-HAL group than in the MMH group (P < 0.05).
CONCLUSIONS: MMH + ND-HAL was a satisfactory surgical modality for treating III/IV hemorrhoids.

Citation: Long Q, et al. Milligan-Morgan hemorrhoidectomy combined with non-doppler hemorrhoidal artery ligation for the treatment of grade III/IV hemorrhoids: a single centre retrospective study. Milligan-Morgan hemorrhoidectomy combined with non-doppler hemorrhoidal artery ligation for the treatment of grade III/IV hemorrhoids: a single centre retrospective study. 2023; 23:293. doi: 10.1186/s12876-023-02933-x

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37653473/
