PMID: 37657720
Title: Non eosinophilic chronic stricturing esophagitis: Lessons from thirty eight cases.

Abstract: BACKGROUND AND AIMS: The endoscopic workup of dysphagia can lead to the diagnosis of atypical esophagitis, with thickened esophageal mucosa, strictures, mucosal exudates, furrows, and sloughing. While these aspects suggest eosinophilic esophagitis, pathology might not report the presence of eosinophils, but rather chronic inflammation, with spongiosis, parakeratosis, and lymphocytic infiltrate. We aimed to report the management of this disease and assess the prevalence of associated dermatological conditions.
METHODS: We retrospectively evaluated the medical records of our patients with non-eosinophilic stricturing esophagitis for clinical, endoscopy, and pathology data. Patients were evaluated by a dermatologist. A blood immunoassay and skin biopsy were performed if needed.
RESULTS: Thirty-eight patients (twenty-six women) were included in the study. The median age at onset of symptoms was 56.5 years, with a median duration of symptoms of two years. Thirty-five patients presented with dysphagia at diagnosis and eighteen with weight loss. At endoscopy, a single esophageal stenosis was diagnosed in 19 patients, localized in the upper third in 22 patients. Thirty patients received endoscopic treatment (dilatation in 29/38 and local triamcinolone injection in 11/38 patients). In 21 patients, oral, skin or vulvo-anal lesions were found on dermatological examination. Nineteen patients received systemic treatment, including corticosteroids, immunosuppressive drugs and plasmapheresis. Five patients developed esophageal squamous cell carcinoma.
CONCLUSION: The management of non-eosinophilic chronic stricturing esophagitis is challenging, because of a low contribution of esophageal biopsies and the refractory nature of the strictures. In our experience, a dermatological evaluation helped in 55% of cases to introduce a systemic treatment, leading to limit the use of endoscopic dilatation. Endoscopic follow-up is needed, considering the significant risk of esophageal squamous cell carcinoma.

Citation: Marin FS, et al. Non eosinophilic chronic stricturing esophagitis: Lessons from thirty eight cases. Non eosinophilic chronic stricturing esophagitis: Lessons from thirty eight cases. 2023; 47:102202. doi: 10.1016/j.clinre.2023.102202

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37657720/
