PMID: 37657064
Title: A comparative study of using linear anastomosis with circular anastomosis in digestive tract reconstruction after laparoscopic radical total gastrectomy: A retrospective study.

Abstract: The purpose of this study is to compare the incidence of anastomotic leakage or stenosis, anastomotic bleeding, anastomosis time, postoperative exhaust time, pneumonia, gastroesophageal reflux, hospitalization and mental state after laparoscopic radical gastrectomy, so as to provide a reliable basis for the safety selection of the 2 clinical anastomosis methods and postoperative care. This study retrospectively analyzed the clinical data of 160 gastric cancer patients treated by our medical team from February 2021 to December 2021. We divided them into side-to-side anastomosis with linear stapler (linear stapler) and end-to-side anastomosis with circular stapler (circular stapler), analyzed the incidence and clinical efficacy of anastomotic complications after laparoscopic radical total gastrectomy. There was a statistically significant difference between linear stapler and the circular stapler in the incidence of anastomotic complications such as the incidence of anastomotic stenosis; The incidence of anastomotic leakage, incidence of anastomotic bleeding, without statistical significant; At the anastomosis time, time of first postoperative discharge, incidence of pneumonia, length of hospital stay, without statistical significant; The incidence of gastroesophageal reflux without statistical significant; The Anxiety Self-rating Scale score, depression self-rating scale score points, the linear stapler was significantly lower than the postoperative circular stapler. The study showed that the anastomotic complications (absolute odds ratio of 1.08; 95% CI 1.02-1.15). This 2 protocol can be used safely and effectively common methods for gastric cancer. The linear stapler after laparoscopic radical total gastrectomy was better than the circular stapler, and was better than the circular stapler in terms of postoperative exhaust time, the incidence of pneumonia and the hospital time. However, the anastomosis time was longer than that of the circular stapler, and fees are also relatively expensive.

Citation: Huang H, et al. A comparative study of using linear anastomosis with circular anastomosis in digestive tract reconstruction after laparoscopic radical total gastrectomy: A retrospective study. A comparative study of using linear anastomosis with circular anastomosis in digestive tract reconstruction after laparoscopic radical total gastrectomy: A retrospective study. 2023; 102:e34588. doi: 10.1097/MD.0000000000034588

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37657064/
