PMID: 37655862
Title: Transcatheter aortic valve implantation versus surgical aortic valve replacement in patients at low to intermediate surgical risk: rationale and design of the randomised DEDICATE Trial.

Abstract: Transcatheter aortic valve implantation (TAVI) has become the preferred treatment option for patients with severe aortic stenosis at increased risk for surgical aortic valve replacement (SAVR) and for older patients irrespective of risk. However, in younger, low-risk patients for whom both therapeutic options, TAVI and SAVR, are applicable, the optimal treatment strategy remains controversial, as data on long-term outcomes remain limited. The DEDICATE-DZHK6 Trial is an investigator-initiated, industry-independent, prospective, multicentre, randomised controlled trial investigating the efficacy and safety of TAVI compared to SAVR in low- to intermediate-risk patients aged 65 years or older. To evaluate both treatment strategies, approximately 1,404 patients determined eligible for both TAVI and SAVR by the interdisciplinary Heart Team were randomised to TAVI or SAVR. Broad inclusion and strict exclusion criteria targeted an all-comers patient population. Procedures were performed according to local best practice with contemporary routine medical devices. The primary endpoints are a composite of mortality or stroke at 1 year and 5 years in order to incorporate midterm efficacy results and complement early safety data. Primary outcomes will be tested sequentially for non-inferiority and superiority. The DEDICATE-DZHK6 Trial has been designed to mirror clinical reality for the treatment of severe aortic stenosis and provide unique information on overall outcomes after TAVI and SAVR that can be directly applied to clinical routines. Its results will help further define optimal treatment strategies for low- to intermediate-risk patients in whom both TAVI and SAVR are currently advisable.

Citation: Seiffert M, et al. Transcatheter aortic valve implantation versus surgical aortic valve replacement in patients at low to intermediate surgical risk: rationale and design of the randomised DEDICATE Trial. Transcatheter aortic valve implantation versus surgical aortic valve replacement in patients at low to intermediate surgical risk: rationale and design of the randomised DEDICATE Trial. 2023; 19:652-658. doi: 10.4244/EIJ-D-23-00232

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37655862/
