PMID: 37656307
Title: Extreme lateral infracondylar approach for internal jugular vein compression syndrome: A case series with preliminary clinical outcomes.

Abstract: BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES: Internal jugular vein (IJV) stenosis is associated with several neurological disorders including idiopathic intracranial hypertension (IIH) and pulsatile tinnitus. In cases of extreme bony compression causing stenosis in the infracondylar region, surgical decompression might be necessary. We aim to examine the safety and efficacy of surgical IJV decompression.
METHODS: We retrospectively reviewed patients who received surgical IJV decompression via the extreme lateral infracondylar (ELI) approach between July 2020 and February 2022.
RESULTS: Fourteen patients with IJV stenosis were identified, all with persistent headache and/or tinnitus. Six patients were diagnosed with IIH, three of whom failed previous treatment. Of the eight remaining patients, two failed previous treatment. All underwent surgical IJV decompression via styloidectomy, release of soft tissue, and removal of the C1 transverse process (TP). Follow-up imaging showed significant improvement of IJV stenosis in eleven patients and mild improvement in three. Eight patients had significant improvement in their presenting symptoms, and three had partial improvement. Two patients received IJV stenting after a lack of initial improvement. Two patients experienced cranial nerve paresis, and one developed a superficial wound infection.
CONCLUSION: The ELI approach for IJV decompression appears to be safe for patients who are not ideal endovascular candidates due to bony anatomy. Confirming long-term efficacy in relieving debilitating clinical symptoms requires longer follow-up and a larger patient cohort. Carefully selected patients with symptomatic bony IJV compression for whom there are no effective medical or endovascular options may benefit from surgical IJV decompression.

Citation: Yang K, et al. Extreme lateral infracondylar approach for internal jugular vein compression syndrome: A case series with preliminary clinical outcomes. Extreme lateral infracondylar approach for internal jugular vein compression syndrome: A case series with preliminary clinical outcomes. 2023; 165:3445-3454. doi: 10.1007/s00701-023-05779-0

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37656307/
