PMID: 37660138
Title: Variations of bile bacterial community alongside gallstone disease progression and key taxa involved in poor outcomes after endoscopic surgery.

Abstract: Gallstone disease is a prevalent biliary disease worldwide, and bacteria play vital roles in the disease development and progression, as well as the prognosis after endoscopic surgery. However, there have been limited studies to explore the key taxa involved. In this study, bile samples from healthy controls (HCs, liver donors without hepatobiliary disease) and three diseased groups, namely patients with gallbladder stones (GBS), patients with common bile duct stones (CBDS), and patients with stricture in the common bile duct (SCBD), were collected and analyzed. Bacterial community characterization based on 16S rRNA amplicon sequencing showed that bacterial diversities did not change significantly alongside gallstone disease development and progression. The predominant phyla in each group were Proteobacteria, Firmicutes, Bacteroidota, and Fusobacteriota, representing over 80% in abundance of the biliary bacteria community. Specifically, the abundance of Proteobacteria decreased greatly while that of Firmicutes and Bacteroidota increased greatly in the diseased groups when compared to that in HCs. Moreover, linear discriminant analysis identified several genera highly represented in the diseased groups. Among them, Klebsiella, Prevotella, Pseudomonas and Veillonella are persistent in both the HCs group and the diseased groups, indicating an enrichment of local bile bacteria in the diseased bile; while Lachnoanerobaculum, Atopobium, Oribacterium, and Stomatobaculum, those aligned to oral cavity taxa, are persistent in the diseased groups but are transient in the HCs group, and their abundances sequentially increased with the disease development and progression (HCs→GBS→CBDS→SCBD), implying a translocation and colonization of the oral cavity bacteria in the diseased bile. Moreover, co-occurrence network analysis revealed that bacterial infection (e.g., Photobacterium and Plesiomonas) from the intestine was developed during endoscopic surgery with reduced bile bacteria diversity. The results of this study revealed that the bile bacterial community is relatively stable and dominated by a few persistent taxa. Moreover, we hypothesized that translocation and colonization of specific bacteria from the oral cavity happens alongside gallstone disease development and progression, and bacterial infection from the intestinal tract results in poor outcomes after endoscopic surgery.

Citation: Cai X, et al. Variations of bile bacterial community alongside gallstone disease progression and key taxa involved in poor outcomes after endoscopic surgery. Variations of bile bacterial community alongside gallstone disease progression and key taxa involved in poor outcomes after endoscopic surgery. 2023; 28:313. doi: 10.1186/s40001-023-01308-y

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37660138/
