PMID: 37663684
Title: Benign inoperable tracheal stenosis in COVID versus non-COVID patients at the pandemic epicenter: a case series.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: The COVID-19 pandemic has exponentially expanded the number of patients requiring treatment for chronic respiratory failure. One consequence is an increase in the number of patients requiring intubation and mechanical ventilation. Benign inoperable tracheal stenosis presents a challenge, especially in COVID-19 patients.
METHODS: We describe a case series of 15 patients with Benign inoperable tracheal stenosis treated with interventional bronchoscopy over a 15-month period. These patients were divided into two groups, COVID and non-COVID. We used an electrocautery snare as an electrocautery knife to cut the stenotic segment followed by four injections of 1 mg submucosal Decadron via a Wang needle. Patients were subsequently followed by the pulmonary clinic. Institutional review board approval was not required as per our institutional policy for a retrospective case series.
RESULTS: There was a high degree of success with this intervention, with a low rate of recurrence. We also noticed the following differences between the two subgroups. COVID tracheal stenosis was longer in length, had a higher percentage of cartilage involvement, and was located more distal to cords than the non-COVID group. The median age was younger in the COVID group.
CONCLUSIONS: COVID pandemic an enormous number of intubations and tracheotomies have been performed. As a result, there will be an increased prevalence of tracheal stenosis. Most of these cases can be effectively treated with surgery. Dealing with complex inoperable cases remains a dilemma. Our case series/research article is an attempt to provide an easy technique with a high cure rate.

Citation: Perwaiz M, et al. Benign inoperable tracheal stenosis in COVID versus non-COVID patients at the pandemic epicenter: a case series. Benign inoperable tracheal stenosis in COVID versus non-COVID patients at the pandemic epicenter: a case series. 2023; 85:4201-4205. doi: 10.1097/MS9.0000000000000588

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37663684/
