PMID: 37667370
Title: Local transplantation of mesenchymal stem cells improves encephalo-myo-synangiosis-mediated collateral neovascularization in chronic brain ischemia.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: To explore whether local transplantation of mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) in temporal muscle can promote collateral angiogenesis and to analyze its main mechanisms of promoting angiogenesis.
METHODS: Bilateral carotid artery stenosis (BCAS) treated mice were administrated with encephalo-myo-synangiosis (EMS), and bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells (BMSCs) were transplanted into the temporal muscle near the cerebral cortex. On the 30th day after EMS, the Morris water maze, immunofluorescence, laser speckle imaging, and light sheet microscopy were performed to evaluate angiogenesis; In addition, rats with bilateral common carotid artery occlusion were also followed by EMS surgery, and BMSCs from GFP reporter rats were transplanted into the temporal muscle to observe the survival time of BMSCs. Then, the concentrated BMSC-derived conditioned medium (BMSC-CM) was used to stimulate HUVECs and BMECs for ki-67 immunocytochemistry, CCK-8, transwell and chick chorioallantoic membrane assays. Finally, the cortical tissue near the temporal muscle was extracted after EMS, and proteome profiler (angiogenesis array) as well as RT-qPCR of mRNA or miRNA was performed.
RESULTS: The results of the Morris water maze 30 days after BMSC transplantation in BCAS mice during the EMS operation, showed that the cognitive impairment in the BCAS + EMS + BMSC group was alleviated (P < 0.05). The results of immunofluorescence, laser speckle imaging, and light sheet microscopy showed that the number of blood vessels, blood flow and astrocytes increased in the BCAS + EMS + BMSC group (P < 0.05). The BMSCs of GFP reporter rats were applied to EMS and showed that the transplanted BMSCs could survive for up to 14 days. Then, the results of ki-67 immunocytochemistry, CCK-8 and transwell assays showed that the concentrated BMSC-CM could promote the proliferation and migration of HUVECs and BMECs (P < 0.05). Finally, the results of proteome profiler (angiogenesis array) in the cerebral cortex showed that the several pro-angiogenesis factors (such as MMP-3, MMP-9, IGFBP-2 or IGFBP-3) were notably highly expressed in MSC transplantation group compared to others.
CONCLUSIONS: Local MSCs transplantation together with EMS surgery can promote angiogenesis and cognitive behavior in chronic brain ischemia mice. Our study illustrated that MSC local transplantation can be the potential therapeutical option for improving EMS treatment efficiency which might be translated into clinical application.

Citation: Zhang X, et al. Local transplantation of mesenchymal stem cells improves encephalo-myo-synangiosis-mediated collateral neovascularization in chronic brain ischemia. Local transplantation of mesenchymal stem cells improves encephalo-myo-synangiosis-mediated collateral neovascularization in chronic brain ischemia. 2023; 14:233. doi: 10.1186/s13287-023-03465-7

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37667370/
