PMID: 37675094
Title: Percutaneous coronary stent implantation in children and young infants following surgical repair of congenital heart disease.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Coronary artery stent implantation (CSI) in the pediatric population is rare. Only a few reports were published on managing postoperative coronary artery obstruction using coronary stents following surgical repair of congenital heart diseases (CHD). This study aimed to analyze the feasibility, indications, procedural technique, risk factors, and short-term outcomes of CSI after pediatric cardiac surgery.
METHODS: In this retrospective cohort study, we reviewed all pediatric patients who underwent surgical repair of CHD requiring postoperative CSI in two cardiac centers (King Abdulaziz University Hospital and King Faisal Specialist Hospital and Research Center) between 2012 and 2022. Survival to hospital discharge was the study's primary outcome. The secondary outcomes included procedural success, duration of mechanical ventilation, intensive care unit (ICU) stay, hospital stay, need for coronary reintervention, and late mortality. A descriptive analysis was performed for the collected data from the patients' medical records.
RESULTS: Eleven patients who underwent postoperative CSI were identified. The most common anatomic diagnosis was congenital aortic valve stenosis. All patients underwent cardiac catheterization on extracorporeal membrane oxygenation support except one patient, who presented with chest pain after cardiac surgery. Procedural success was achieved in all patients with excellent revascularization documented by post-procedural angiograms. Both patients who had late coronary events after cardiac surgery survived hospital discharge. There was no in-hospital mortality among the two patients who required stenting of only the right coronary artery. The four patients who required more than 120 minutes to complete the procedure had early mortality. After CSI, the median duration of mechanical ventilation and ICU stay was 12 and 17 days, respectively. Six patients (54.5%) survived hospital discharge post-CSI; they did not require re-intervention during the follow-up period (38-1,695 days).
CONCLUSIONS: CSI in pediatric patients can be performed with excellent procedural success for treating coronary artery stenosis after cardiac surgery. It could be considered a potential treatment strategy for this population.

Citation: Al-Ata JA, et al. Percutaneous coronary stent implantation in children and young infants following surgical repair of congenital heart disease. Percutaneous coronary stent implantation in children and young infants following surgical repair of congenital heart disease. 2023; 13:638-649. doi: 10.21037/cdt-23-54

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37675094/
