PMID: 37671263
Title: Effectiveness of endovascular therapy using stents in a patient with celiac artery compression syndrome due to the median arcuate ligament: A case report.

Abstract: UNLABELLED: Celiac artery compression syndrome (CACS) is a disease caused by celiac artery compression by the median arcuate ligament (MAL), resulting in intestinal ischemic symptoms. However, a clear method for the invasive treatment of CACS has not yet been established because of limited treatment indications. In particular, only a few reports of endovascular therapy (EVT) using stents as the initial invasive treatment are available. Here, we report a case where EVT was performed using a stent in the celiac artery, resulting in good outcomes. A 59-year-old male patient presented to our hospital with postprandial abdominal pain and was diagnosed with MAL-induced CACS since the abdominal contrast computed tomography examination showed stenosis of a celiac artery origin. He was aware of the abdominal pain symptoms; therefore, we decided to treat CACS with EVT as an invasive treatment. A bare metal stent was placed in the celiac artery, whose lumen was well dilated using intravascular ultrasound. Consequently, he no longer felt abdominal pain and had good stent patency after 15 months. Minimally invasive EVT may be considered the first-line treatment for CACS.
LEARNING OBJECTIVE: The efficacy of endovascular therapy (EVT) using stents for the invasive treatment of celiac artery compression syndrome (CACS) resulting from the compression of the median arcuate ligament has not yet been established. Specifically, the efficacy of EVT using stents for CACS is unknown. We can safely perform EVT with stent placement using intravascular ultrasound for maintaining long-term patency. Therefore, minimally invasive EVT may be considered the first-line treatment for CACS.

Citation: Sunohara D, et al. Effectiveness of endovascular therapy using stents in a patient with celiac artery compression syndrome due to the median arcuate ligament: A case report. Effectiveness of endovascular therapy using stents in a patient with celiac artery compression syndrome due to the median arcuate ligament: A case report. 2023; 28:128-131. doi: 10.1016/j.jccase.2023.05.005

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37671263/
