PMID: 37678856
Title: Effect of Laparoscopic Soave Combined with Deloyers Turnover on the Efficacy and Prognosis of Children with Congenital Hirschsprung's Disease.

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: To analyze the effect of laparoscopic Soave combined with Deloyers turnover on the efficacy and prognosis of children with congenital Hirschsprung's disease, and to explore an effective and safe operation, so as to provide a reference for clinical development of treatment plan and promote the faster recovery of children.
METHODS: A total of 80 children with Hirschsprung's disease admitted to our hospital from July 2021 to June 2022 were selected and included in the traditional group and minimally invasive group according to different surgical procedures, with 40 cases in each group. The traditional group was treated with open Soave, and the minimally invasive group was treated with laparoscopic Soave combined with Deloyers reversal. Compared two groups in terms of operation indicators (operation time, intraoperative blood loss, fasting time, intestinal function recovery time, and hospital stay), the stress response (serum cortisol, heart sodium, plasma epinephrine, and norepinephrine), intestinal flora (Bifidobacterium, Lactobacillus, Escherichia coli, and Enterococcus faecalis), anal function, recent complications (urinary retention, hematochezia, anus week dermatitis, incision infection, and abdominal bleeding), long-term complications (constipation, anastomotic stenosis, enterocolitis, and dirty feces).
RESULTS: The operation time, intraoperative blood loss, fasting time, intestinal function recovery time, and hospital stay in the minimally invasive group were significantly shorter than those in the traditional group (P < .05). The levels of serum cortisol, atrial natriuretic peptide, plasma epinephrine, and norepinephrine in the minimally invasive group were lower than those in the traditional group (P < .05). The levels of Bifidobacterium and Enterococcus faecalis in the minimally invasive group were higher than those in the traditional group (P < .05). The excellent and good rate of anal function in the minimally invasive group was higher than that in the traditional group (P < .05). The incidence of short-term and long-term complications in the minimally invasive group was lower than that in the traditional group (P < .05).
CONCLUSION: Joint Deloyers flip Soave under laparoscopic surgery for children with congenital Hirschsprung disease has a better curative effect, with shorter operation time, less blood loss compared to traditional open surgery.

Citation: Chen D and Du Y. Effect of Laparoscopic Soave Combined with Deloyers Turnover on the Efficacy and Prognosis of Children with Congenital Hirschsprung's Disease. Effect of Laparoscopic Soave Combined with Deloyers Turnover on the Efficacy and Prognosis of Children with Congenital Hirschsprung's Disease. 2023; 29:570-575.

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37678856/
