PMID: 37679209
Title: Ultrasound of pancreatic transplant complications: a primer for radiologists.

Abstract: Pancreatic transplantation is an established treatment for patients with type 1 diabetes patients and select type 2 diabetes patients, with excellent survival rates as graft health is evaluated through regular imaging and early detection of complications. Amongst the various imaging methods that may aid in diagnosis of pancreatic transplant complications, ultrasound is a widely available, quick, portable, and cost-effective technique, often used as the sole method to assess for pancreatic transplant complications. When assessing a patient with a pancreatic transplant, the radiologist should be methodical in assessing the vasculature, the pancreatic parenchyma, and the peripancreatic regions. Complications can be categorised based on time from transplant and type of complications, and include vascular, parenchymal, and enteric/anastomotic complications. Doppler has a major role in the diagnosis of vascular complications including arterial and venous thrombosis, arterial stenosis, pseudoaneurysms, and haematomas. Pancreatic complications include rejections and pancreatitis, and are often diagnosed through a combination of clinical, laboratory, and imaging findings, such as pancreatic heterogeneity or the presence of pancreatic pseudocysts. Enteric/anastomotic complications include leaks and bowel obstructions, and may require cross-sectional imaging in addition to ultrasound. This review covers the most common and high-impact vascular, parenchymal, and enteric/anastomotic complications that should be considered in every radiologist's search pattern when assessing a pancreatic graft, as well as their respective postoperative timeframes.

Citation: Betancur V, et al. Ultrasound of pancreatic transplant complications: a primer for radiologists. Ultrasound of pancreatic transplant complications: a primer for radiologists. 2023; 78:861-871. doi: 10.1016/j.crad.2023.08.009

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37679209/
