PMID: 37677007
Title: A Neonatal Heterotopic Rat Heart Transplantation Model for the Study of Endothelial-to-Mesenchymal Transition.

Abstract: Endocardial fibroelastosis (EFE), defined by subendocardial tissue accumulation, has major impacts on the development of the left ventricle (LV) and precludes patients with congenital critical aortic stenosis and hypoplastic left heart syndrome (HLHS) from curative anatomical biventricular surgical repair. Surgical resection is currently the only available therapeutic option, but EFE often recurs, sometimes with an even more infiltrative growth pattern into the adjacent myocardium. To better understand the underlying mechanisms of EFE and to explore therapeutic strategies, an animal model suitable for preclinical testing was developed. The animal model takes into consideration that EFE is a disease of the immature heart and is associated with flow disturbances, as supported by clinical observations. Thus, the heterotopic heart transplantation of neonatal rat donor hearts is the basis for this model. A neonatal rat heart is transplanted into an adolescent rat's abdomen and connected to the recipient's infrarenal aorta and inferior vena cava. While perfusion of the coronary arteries preserves the viability of the donor heart, flow stagnation within the LV induces EFE growth in the very immature heart. The underlying mechanism of EFE formation is the transition of endocardial endothelial cells to mesenchymal cells (EndMT), which is a well-described mechanism of early embryonic development of the valves and septa but also the leading cause of fibrosis in heart failure. EFE formation can be macroscopically observed within days after transplantation. Transabdominal echocardiography is used to monitor the graft viability, contractility, and the patency of the anastomoses. Following euthanasia, the EFE tissue is harvested, and it shows the same histopathological characteristics as human EFE tissue from HLHS patients. This in vivo model allows for studying the mechanisms of EFE development in the heart and testing treatment options to prevent this pathological tissue formation and provides the opportunity for a more generalized examination of EndMT-induced fibrosis.

Citation: Gierlinger G, et al. A Neonatal Heterotopic Rat Heart Transplantation Model for the Study of Endothelial-to-Mesenchymal Transition. A Neonatal Heterotopic Rat Heart Transplantation Model for the Study of Endothelial-to-Mesenchymal Transition. 2023; (unknown volume):(unknown pages). doi: 10.3791/65426

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37677007/
