PMID: 37670027
Title: Assessing the impact of turbulent kinetic energy boundary conditions on turbulent flow simulations using computational fluid dynamics.

Abstract: Computational fluid dynamics has been widely used to study hemodynamics, but accurately determining boundary conditions for turbulent blood flow remains challenging. This study aims to investigate the effect of patient-specific turbulence boundary conditions on the accuracy of turbulent flow simulation. Using a stenosis model with 50% severity in diameter, the post-stenosis turbulence flow region was simulated with different planes to obtain inlet boundary conditions and simulate downstream flows. The errors of simulated flow fields obtained with turbulence kinetic energy (TKE) boundary data and arbitrary turbulence intensity were compared. Additionally, the study tested various TKE data resolutions and noise levels to simulate experimental environments. The mean absolute error of velocity and TKE was investigated with various turbulence intensities and TKE mapping. While voxel size and signal-to-noise ratio of the TKE data affected the results, simulation with SNR > 5 and voxel size < 10% resulted in better accuracy than simulations with turbulence intensities. The simulation with appropriate TKE boundary data resulted in a more accurate velocity and turbulence field than those with arbitrary turbulence intensity boundary conditions. The study demonstrated the potential improvement of turbulent blood flow simulation with patient-specific turbulence boundary conditions, which can be obtained from recent measurement techniques.

Citation: Jung EC, et al. Assessing the impact of turbulent kinetic energy boundary conditions on turbulent flow simulations using computational fluid dynamics. Assessing the impact of turbulent kinetic energy boundary conditions on turbulent flow simulations using computational fluid dynamics. 2023; 13:14638. doi: 10.1038/s41598-023-41324-w

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37670027/
