PMID: 37679247
Title: Rationale and design of the INVICTUS Registry: (Multicenter Registry of Invasive and Non-Invasive imaging modalities to compare Coronary Computed Tomography Angiography, Intravascular Ultrasound and Optical Coherence Tomography for the determination of Severity, Volume and Type of coronary atherosclerosiS).

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Coronary CT angiography (CCTA) is a first-line noninvasive imaging modality for evaluating coronary artery disease (CAD). Recent advances in CCTA technology enabled semi-automated detection of coronary arteries and atherosclerosis. However, there have been to date no large-scale validation studies of automated assessment of coronary atherosclerosis phenotype and coronary artery dimensions by artificial intelligence (AI) compared to current standard invasive imaging.
METHODS: INVICTUS registry is a multicenter, retrospective, and prospective study designed to evaluate the dimensions of coronary arteries, as well as the characteristic, volume, and phenotype of coronary atherosclerosis by CCTA, compared with the invasive imaging modalities including intravascular ultrasound (IVUS), near-infrared spectroscopy (NIRS)-IVUS and optical coherence tomography (OCT). All patients clinically underwent both CCTA and invasive imaging modalities within three months.
RESULTS: Patients data are sent to the core-laboratories to analyze for stenosis severity, plaque characteristics and volume. The variables for CCTA are measured using an AI-based automated software and assessed independently with the variables measured at the imaging core laboratories for IVUS, NIRS-IVUS, and OCT in a blind fashion.
CONCLUSION: The INVICTUS registry will provide new insights into the diagnostic value of CCTA for determining coronary atherosclerosis phenotype and coronary artery dimensions compared to IVUS, NIRS-IVUS, and OCT. Our findings will potentially shed new light on precision medicine informed by an AI-based coronary CTA assessment of coronary atherosclerosis burden, composition, and severity. (ClinicalTrials.gov: NCT04066062).

Citation: Nakanishi R, et al. Rationale and design of the INVICTUS Registry: (Multicenter Registry of Invasive and Non-Invasive imaging modalities to compare Coronary Computed Tomography Angiography, Intravascular Ultrasound and Optical Coherence Tomography for the determination of Severity, Volume and Type of coronary atherosclerosiS). Rationale and design of the INVICTUS Registry: (Multicenter Registry of Invasive and Non-Invasive imaging modalities to compare Coronary Computed Tomography Angiography, Intravascular Ultrasound and Optical Coherence Tomography for the determination of Severity, Volume and Type of coronary atherosclerosiS). 2023; 17:401-406. doi: 10.1016/j.jcct.2023.08.011

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37679247/
