PMID: 37688689
Title: Early stent fractures in superficial femoral artery resulting multiple pseudoaneurysm formation within one year: a case report.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Though fracture is known complication of stenting, pseudoaneurysm asscoiated with stent fracture is an extremely rare complication. This has previoulsy been described to occur at least one or more years following initial stent placement. Here we present a case of multi-site stent fracture leading to two separate SFA pseudoaneurysms within one year of placement, successfully treated with covered stents.
CASE PRESENTATION: A 72-year-old male presented with severe claudication of his left lower extremity (Rutherford 3), found to have long segment SFA chronic total occlusion (CTO). Patient successfully underwent endovascular revascularization. Follow-up duplex ultrasound (US) at one year demonstrated a focus of severe in-stent restenosis (ISR). During repeat angiogram for treatment of the stenosis, stent fracture and pseudoaneurysm was seen in the distal SFA, which was treated successfully with a self-expanding covered stent. Additional stent fractures and pseudoanerusyms were subseuqently identified on follow-up, necessitating a third angiogram, and these were successfully repaired using overlapping covered stents, without further recurrence.
CONCLUSIONS: Superficial femoral artery stent fractures leading to pseudoaneurysms are extremely rare, particularly within first year of stent placement. Endovascular repair with covered stents has proven to be an effective treatment option with decreased procedural morbidity compared to surgical repair.

Citation: Benedict T, et al. Early stent fractures in superficial femoral artery resulting multiple pseudoaneurysm formation within one year: a case report. Early stent fractures in superficial femoral artery resulting multiple pseudoaneurysm formation within one year: a case report. 2023; 6:45. doi: 10.1186/s42155-023-00391-w

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37688689/
