PMID: 37689729
Title: Obstructive jaundice as a rare complication of multiple pancreaticoduodenal artery aneurysms due to median arcuate ligament syndrome: a case report and review of the literature.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Obstructive jaundice has various causes, and one of the rarest is pancreaticoduodenal artery aneurysm (PDAA), which is often associated with celiac axis stenosis caused by median arcuate ligament syndrome (MALS).
CASE PRESENTATION: The patient was a 77-year-old Azeri woman who presented with progressive jaundice, vague abdominal pain, and abdominal distension from 6 months ago. The intra- and extrahepatic bile ducts were dilated, the liver's margin was slightly irregular, and the echogenicity of the liver was mildly heterogeneous in the initial ultrasound exam. A huge cystic mass with peripheral calcification and compressive effect on the common bile duct (CBD) was also seen near the pancreatic head, which was connected to the superior mesenteric artery (SMA) and had internal turbulent blood flow on color Doppler ultrasound. According to the computed tomography angiography (CTA) findings, the huge mass of the pancreatic head was diagnosed as a true aneurysm of the pancreaticoduodenal artery caused by MALS. Two similar smaller aneurysms were also present at the huge aneurysm's superior margin. Due to impending rupture signs in the huge aneurysm, the severe compression effect of this aneurysm on CBD, and the patient's family will surgery was chosen for the patient to resect the aneurysms, but unfortunately, the patient died on the first day after the operation due to hemorrhagic shock.
CONCLUSION: In unexpected obstructive jaundice due to a mass with vascular origin in the head of the pancreas, PDAA should be considered, and celiac trunk should be evaluated because the main reason for PDAA is celiac trunk stenosis or occlusion by atherosclerosis or MALS. The treatment method chosen (including transarterial embolization, open surgery, or combined method) depends on the patient's clinical status and radiological findings, but transarterial embolization would be safer and should be used as a first-line method.

Citation: Jalili J, et al. Obstructive jaundice as a rare complication of multiple pancreaticoduodenal artery aneurysms due to median arcuate ligament syndrome: a case report and review of the literature. Obstructive jaundice as a rare complication of multiple pancreaticoduodenal artery aneurysms due to median arcuate ligament syndrome: a case report and review of the literature. 2023; 17:385. doi: 10.1186/s13256-023-04114-6

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37689729/
