PMID: 37682426
Title: One-step solution for angioplasty, low-profile stent delivery, and intrastent dilation using a dual-lumen angioplasty balloon microcatheter: technical advances, limitations, outcomes, and literature review.

Abstract: Dual-lumen angioplasty balloon microcatheters make it possible to perform percutaneous transluminal angioplasty (PTA), low-profile stent delivery, and intrastent dilation without the microcatheter exchange technique. This technique has shown many advantages in recent years. We reviewed the techniques and applications in different intracranial vascular diseases and summarized the outcomes and indications. Gateway dual-lumen angioplasty balloon was used for PTA and kept in situ. Stent was delivered and deployed via Gateway microcatheter. Intrastent balloon dilation was performed after stent deployment. We retrospectively reviewed the clinical and imaging data, surgical procedures, technique application, and follow-up outcomes of six patients treated from 2020 to 2023. Neurological function was assessed by the modified Rankin scale (mRS). A literature review was performed using PubMed. All seven patients (4 males, 3 females; mean age, 62.6 ± 6.9 years) underwent percutaneous transluminal angioplasty and stent deployment using a balloon microcatheter. There was one middle cerebral artery (MCA) aneurysm with parent artery stenosis, two MCA dissections, and four intracranial atherosclerotic stenoses (ICASs). The mRS score was 0 in five patients and 1 in two patients. Cerebral dissection with stenosis is the best indication, and its application in stent-assisted aneurysm coiling is inappropriate. This technique is controversial in ICAS treatment.

Citation: Liu P, et al. One-step solution for angioplasty, low-profile stent delivery, and intrastent dilation using a dual-lumen angioplasty balloon microcatheter: technical advances, limitations, outcomes, and literature review. One-step solution for angioplasty, low-profile stent delivery, and intrastent dilation using a dual-lumen angioplasty balloon microcatheter: technical advances, limitations, outcomes, and literature review. 2023; 46:234. doi: 10.1007/s10143-023-02143-9

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37682426/
