PMID: 37680847
Title: Diagnostic value of mesenteric CTA combined with D-dimer level and inflammatory factor changes in severity of mesenteric artery embolism.

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: To investigate the value of mesenteric CTA combined with D-dimer (DD) level and inflammatory factor changes in evaluating the severity of mesenteric artery embolism.
METHODS: This is a retrospective study. The imaging data of mesenteric CTA and the levels of plasma DD and inflammatory factors in 120 patients with mesenteric artery embolism confirmed by DSA or surgery in Baoding No.1 Central Hospital were analyzed retrospectively from January 2021 to December 2022. The coincidence rate of CTA alone and CTA combined with DD and inflammatory factors with the results of surgery or DSA was compared and analyzed. The specificity, sensitivity and accuracy of CTA alone and CTA combined with DD and inflammatory factors in diagnosing superior mesenteric artery embolism were compared. The correlations of different severity of mesenteric artery embolism with DD and inflammatory factor levels were compared and analyzed.
RESULTS: There was a significant difference in the coincidence rate between CTA diagnosis and CTA combined with DD and inflammatory factors diagnosis (p= 0.01). And the sensitivity and accuracy of the latter were significantly higher than those of the former (sensitivity, p= 0.01; accuracy, p= 0.00). The levels of plasma DD, TNF-a, CRP and IL-6 in the intestinal wall thinning group were significantly higher than those in the thickening group (p= 0.00). The above indexes increased significantly in the decreased intestinal wall enhancement group compared with the increased intestinal wall enhancement group (p= 0.00). DD, TNF-ɑ, CRP and IL-6 levels increased with the increase in stenosis severity.
CONCLUSION: Mesenteric CTA combined with plasma DD and inflammatory factor levels can effectively determine the severity of mesenteric arterial embolism, and provide a scientific basis for early clinical diagnosis and treatment.

Citation: Zhang YR, et al. Diagnostic value of mesenteric CTA combined with D-dimer level and inflammatory factor changes in severity of mesenteric artery embolism. Diagnostic value of mesenteric CTA combined with D-dimer level and inflammatory factor changes in severity of mesenteric artery embolism. 2023; 39:1321-1325. doi: 10.12669/pjms.39.5.6719

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37680847/
