PMID: 37680937
Title: Stent retrieval for free-floating thrombus attached to carotid artery stenosis: A report of two cases.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: We report two cases who underwent mechanical thrombectomy using a stent retriever in advance of urgent carotid artery stenting (CAS) for carotid artery stenosis with free-floating thrombus (FFT).
CASE DESCRIPTION: Two patients showing symptomatic carotid artery stenosis with FFT underwent urgent endovascular surgery due to progressive neurological symptoms. The first case showed an FFT with 70% internal carotid artery (ICA) stenosis. After the completion of the common and external carotid artery balloon and distal ICA filter protection, we deployed a 6-mm-diameter stent retriever in the distal part of the stenosis. The white thrombus was retrieved; the angiographic shadow of the FFT disappeared; and CAS was performed. In the second case, due to a 90% severe stenosis lesion with FFT, balloon angioplasty was performed on the lesion using the push wire of the stent retriever. After angioplasty, the stent retriever was smoothly retrieved, and CAS was performed. Postoperative magnetic resonance imaging showed an increase in cerebral embolism in the first case; however, the patient's neurological symptoms improved. The second case showed in-stent plaque protrusion and required two additional stent placements; the patient showed no worsening of his neurological symptoms.
CONCLUSION: In cases of carotid artery stenosis with FFT, it is technically possible to retrieve a thrombus with a stent retriever. Although thrombus removal may help reduce the risk of ischemic complications in a series of urgent CAS procedures, there are concerns such as mechanical irritation to the carotid artery plaque, and its indications and alternative treatments should be carefully considered.

Citation: Yamamoto Y, et al. Stent retrieval for free-floating thrombus attached to carotid artery stenosis: A report of two cases. Stent retrieval for free-floating thrombus attached to carotid artery stenosis: A report of two cases. 2023; 14:274. doi: 10.25259/SNI_513_2023

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37680937/
