PMID: 37688295
Title: Anterolateral Papillary Muscle Rupture Predicted by Post-Infarction Inflammatory Markers.

Abstract: BACKGROUND The incidence of papillary muscle rupture (PMR), a mechanical complication of acute myocardial infarction, has decreased in the reperfusion era; however, its fatality rate remains high. Timely recognition and prompt initiation of treatment for PMR are important to avoid prolonged cardiogenic shock; however, the symptoms of PMR are nonspecific, and early diagnosis is often difficult. CASE REPORT A 72-year-old woman with nausea for 2 days presented with ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction with obstruction of the obtuse marginal branch and 75% stenosis of the first diagonal branch. Percutaneous coronary intervention was performed to revascularize the obtuse marginal lesion, which was over thrombolysis in myocardial infarction grade 2 flow. After percutaneous coronary intervention, the patient developed fever, an elevated C-reactive protein level, and an increased neutrophil-to-lymphocyte ratio (NLR). The patient showed no signs of infection but elevated inflammatory marker levels, with C-reactive protein rising to 39.32 mg/dL and NLR to 15. On postoperative day 4, the patient's clinical condition rapidly deteriorated, resulting in circulatory failure. Transthoracic echocardiography showed anterolateral PMR, and urgent surgical mitral valve replacement was performed. On day 32, the patient was discharged from the hospital, and at the 1-year follow-up, she remained in good health. CONCLUSIONS When there are multiple lesions, including the obtuse marginal and diagonal branches, anterolateral PMR should be suspected as the cause of cardiogenic shock. Performing point-of-care echocardiography and closely monitoring C-reactive protein levels and NLR can be helpful to detect PMR early.

Citation: Takafumi K, et al. Anterolateral Papillary Muscle Rupture Predicted by Post-Infarction Inflammatory Markers. Anterolateral Papillary Muscle Rupture Predicted by Post-Infarction Inflammatory Markers. 2023; 24:e940406. doi: 10.12659/AJCR.940406

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37688295/
