PMID: 37684179
Title: Treatment of primary restless legs syndrome with Fu's subcutaneous needling: A case report.

Abstract: RATIONALE: Fu's subcutaneous needling (FSN) is a novel acupuncture technique developed based on traditional needling principles that aims to alleviate diseases by improving local muscle conditions and blood supply. FSN have been widely used for the treatment of various diseases. Restless legs syndrome (RLS) is a common central nervous system disorder characterized by intense discomfort in the legs, particularly at night, leading to an urge to move the legs for relief. In this study, we report a case in which FSN was used to treat primary RLS.
PATIENT CONCERNS: A 67-year-old patient complained of nocturnal discomfort in the right leg for over 4 months, the symptoms occurred 2-3 times, with uncontrollable movement impulses in the right leg during the onset, accompanied by a burning sensation, lasting about 2 h, accompanied by anxiety and insomnia. Imaging examinations revealed no spinal stenosis or history of kidney disease, rheumatic disease, diabetes, or Parkinson's disease.
DIAGNOSES: The patient was diagnosed with primary RLS, and the International Restless Legs Syndrome Study Group rating scale (IRLS) score was 26.
INTERVENTIONS: FSN was successfully performed three times per week on different days. No adverse and unanticipated events while the treatment. The total treatment course lasted for six weeks.
OUTCOMES: After the treatment, the patient reported that the recent onset interval was approximately 10 days, each time lasting approximately 15 min. The patient's IRLS score was 5, After a follow-up of 2 months following the end of treatment, the patient reported that the incidence of RLS was approximately one episode within two weeks,each lasting approximately 10 min.
LESSONS: FSN significantly improved leg discomfort and desire for leg movement in patients with RLS. FSN may exert its therapeutic effects by influencing connective and muscular tissues, thereby improving the condition of the central nervous system and the local blood supply in the legs. However, due to the limitation of a single clinical observation case, a randomized clinical trial with a sufficient follow-up time is needed.

Citation: Qu K, et al. Treatment of primary restless legs syndrome with Fu's subcutaneous needling: A case report. Treatment of primary restless legs syndrome with Fu's subcutaneous needling: A case report. 2024; 20:253-255. doi: 10.1016/j.explore.2023.08.017

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37684179/
