PMID: 37690571
Title: GRK2 expression and catalytic activity are essential for vasoconstrictor/ERK-stimulated arterial smooth muscle proliferation.

Abstract: Prolonged vasoconstrictor signalling found in hypertension, increases arterial contraction, and alters vessel architecture by stimulating arterial smooth muscle cell (ASMC) growth, underpinning the development of re-stenosis lesions and vascular remodelling. Vasoconstrictors interact with their cognate G protein coupled receptors activating a variety of signalling pathways to promote smooth muscle proliferation. Here, angiotensin II (AngII) and endothelin 1 (ET1), but not UTP stimulates ASMC proliferation. Moreover, siRNA-mediated depletion of endogenous GRK2 expression, or GRK2 inhibitors, compound 101 or paroxetine, prevented AngII and ET1-promoted ASMC growth. Depletion of GRK2 expression or inhibition of GRK2 activity ablated the prolonged phase of AngII and ET-stimulated ERK signalling, while enhancing and prolonging UTP-stimulated ERK signalling. Increased GRK2 expression enhanced and prolonged AngII and ET1-stimulated ERK signalling, but suppressed UTP-stimulated ERK signalling. In ASMC prepared from 6-week-old WKY and SHR, AngII and ET1-stimulated proliferation rates were similar, however, in cultures prepared from 12-week-old rats AngII and ET1-stimulated growth was enhanced in SHR-derived ASMC, which was reversed following depletion of GRK2 expression. Furthermore, in ASMC cultures isolated from 6-week-old WKY and SHR rats, AngII and ET1-stimulated ERK signals were similar, while in cultures from 12-week-old rats ERK signals were both enhanced and prolonged in SHR-derived ASMC, and were reversed to those seen in age-matched WKY-derived ASMC following pre-treatment of SHR-derived ASMC with compound 101. These data indicate that the presence of GRK2 and its catalytic activity are essential to enable pro-proliferative vasoconstrictors to promote growth via recruitment and activation of the ERK signalling pathway in ASMC.

Citation: Alonazi A, et al. GRK2 expression and catalytic activity are essential for vasoconstrictor/ERK-stimulated arterial smooth muscle proliferation. GRK2 expression and catalytic activity are essential for vasoconstrictor/ERK-stimulated arterial smooth muscle proliferation. 2023; 216:115795. doi: 10.1016/j.bcp.2023.115795

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37690571/
