PMID: 37692046
Title: Endovascular repair of thoracic aortic disease with isolated left vertebral artery and unfavorable proximal landing zone using fenestrated castor stent-graft.

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: The main purpose of this study was to evaluate the safety and efficacy of Castor single-branched stent-graft combined with fenestrated technique in treatment of thoracic aortic disease (TAD) with unfavorable proximal landing area (PLZ) and isolated left vertebral artery (ILVA).
METHODS: From January 2018 to March 2022, 8 patients with TAD (6 patients with type B aortic dissections, 1 patient with type B intramural hematomas, and 1 patient with thoracic aortic aneurysm) underwent thoracic endovascular aortic repair with fenestrated Castor stent-graft due to the existence of ILVA and unfavorable PLZ. Demographic characteristics, surgical details, postoperative complications, follow-up and postoperative CTA imaging results were collected and analyzed.
RESULTS: The primary technical success rate was 100%. The mean operation time was 115 min (range, 70-180 min). All the left subclavian arteries (LSAs) and ILVAs of the eight patients were revascularized by fenestrated Castor stent-grafts. During the follow-up period, no deaths and complications were observed. No internal leakage, aortic rupture, retrograde type A dissection were found on computed tomography angiography. All of the LSAs and ILVAs maintained patency without stenosis.
CONCLUSION: Castor single-branched stent-graft implantation combined with fenestration technique may be safe and feasible for TAD patients with ILVA and unfavorable PLZ.

Citation: Wang Z, et al. Endovascular repair of thoracic aortic disease with isolated left vertebral artery and unfavorable proximal landing zone using fenestrated castor stent-graft. Endovascular repair of thoracic aortic disease with isolated left vertebral artery and unfavorable proximal landing zone using fenestrated castor stent-graft. 2023; 10:1168180. doi: 10.3389/fcvm.2023.1168180

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37692046/
