PMID: 37699429
Title: [Atherectomy with a Novel Device Offering Wider Options].

Abstract: Catheter-based atherectomy has been discussed for some years, although the conclusions have been controversial. Recent study data did show the feasibility of multifunctional atherectomy devices for complex lesion morphologies, with moderate material use. This is then thus an alternative to bypass surgery, although a direct comparison is lacking.The results of the ByCross approval study were compared to technical and clinical data from various atherectomy systems in terms of range of indication, limitations as defined by the manufacturer, the success and complication rate and the instructions for use. As in many recent studies, a residual stenosis ≤ 50% after atherectomy and ≤ 30% in the completion imaging was defined as the primary endpoint and proof of technical success.Lesions recruited for the ByCross study were more complex than in other studies, with respect to the lesion length (124.7 mm vs. 34 mm in the EASE study and 67.2 mm in the VISION study) and the degree of stenosis (99.4% vs. 88.5% in the EASE and 78,7% in the VISION study). Calcification was also more severe - as defined by the PACSS (Peripheral Artery Calcification Severity Score). ByCross allowed recanalisation of lesions without wire passage prior to atherectomy (26.82%), which is a must for all other systems. The variable tip diameter of the ByCross can achieve a lumen gain of 4.7 mm without tip or wire exchange or run time limits. The 0% rate of embolic events, which is unique for atherectomy device approval studies, can be explained by the working principle and the high aspiration rate. No vessel injuries occurred, and the 6-month follow-up results showed 0% revascularisation rate.New generation atherectomy systems offer safe and effective enlargement of the endovascular portfolio. The ByCross device is an atherectomy, thrombectomy and crossing device free from investment and has a wider range of indications for the iliac and the femorodistal segments, which supports ByCross atherectomy as an alternative for bypass surgery.

Citation: Teßarek J, et al. [Atherectomy with a Novel Device Offering Wider Options]. [Atherectomy with a Novel Device Offering Wider Options]. 2023; 148:429-437. doi: 10.1055/a-2156-5891

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37699429/
