PMID: 37693256
Title: Imaging and Intervention in the Management of Vascular Complications Following Liver Transplantation.

Abstract: Liver transplantation is the treatment of choice in majority of the patients with end stage liver disease. Vascular complication following liver transplantation is seen in around 7-13% of the patients and is associated with graft dysfunction and high morbidity and mortality. Early diagnosis and prompt treatment are crucial in management of these patients. Advances in interventional radiology have significantly improved the management of vascular complications using minimally invasive percutaneous approach. Endovascular management is preferred in patients with late hepatic artery thrombosis, or stenosis, whereas retransplantation, surgical revision, or endovascular management can be considered in patients with early hepatic artery thrombosis or stenosis. Hepatic artery pseudoaneurysm, arterioportal fistula, and splenic artery steal syndrome are often treated by endovascular means. Endovascular management is also preferred in patients with symptomatic portal vein stenosis, early portal vein thrombosis, and symptomatic late portal vein thrombosis, whereas surgical revision or retransplantation is preferred in patients with perioperative portal vein thrombosis occurring within 3 days of transplantation. Venoplasty with or without stent placement can be considered in patients with hepatic venous outflow tract or inferior vena cava obstruction. Transjugular intrahepatic portosystemic shunt (TIPS) may be required in transplant recipients who develop cirrhosis, often, secondary to disease recurrence, or chronic rejection. Indications for TIPS remain same in the transplant patients; however, major difference is altered vascular anatomy, for which adjunct techniques may be required to create TIPS.

Citation: Kubihal V, et al. Imaging and Intervention in the Management of Vascular Complications Following Liver Transplantation. Imaging and Intervention in the Management of Vascular Complications Following Liver Transplantation. 2023; 13:854-868. doi: 10.1016/j.jceh.2023.03.010

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37693256/
