PMID: 37703899
Title: Characterization of cardiovascular and cerebrovascular controls via spectral causality analysis in patients undergoing surgical aortic valve replacement during a three-month follow-up.

Abstract: Objective.Aortic valve stenosis (AVS) induces left ventricular function adaptations and surgical aortic valve replacement (SAVR) restores blood flow profile across aortic valve. Modifications of cardiac hemodynamics induced by AVS and SAVR might alter cardiovascular (CV) and cerebrovascular (CBV) controls. The study aims at characterizing CV and CBV regulations one day before SAVR (PRE), within one week after SAVR (POST), and after a three-month follow-up (POST3) in 73 AVS patients (age: 63.9 ± 12.9 yrs; 48 males, 25 females) from spontaneous fluctuations of heart period (HP), systolic arterial pressure, mean arterial pressure and mean cerebral blood velocity.Approach.CV and CBV regulations were typified via a bivariate autoregressive approach computing traditional frequency domain markers and causal squared coherence (CK2) from CV and CBV variabilities. Univariate time and frequency domain indexes were calculated as well. Analyses were carried out in frequency bands typical of CV and CBV controls at supine rest and during active standing. A surrogate method was exploited to check uncoupling condition.Main results.We found that: (i) CV regulation is impaired in AVS patients; (ii) CV regulation worsens in POST; (iii) CV regulation recovers in POST3 and CV response to active standing is even better than in PRE; (iv) CBV regulation is preserved in AVS patients; (v) SAVR does not affect CBV control; (vi) parameters of the CBV control in POST3 and PRE are similar.Significance.CK2is particularly useful to characterize CV and CBV controls in AVS patients and to monitor of patient's evolution after SAVR.

Citation: Bari V, et al. Characterization of cardiovascular and cerebrovascular controls via spectral causality analysis in patients undergoing surgical aortic valve replacement during a three-month follow-up. Characterization of cardiovascular and cerebrovascular controls via spectral causality analysis in patients undergoing surgical aortic valve replacement during a three-month follow-up. 2023; 44:(unknown pages). doi: 10.1088/1361-6579/acf992

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37703899/
