PMID: 37704035
Title: Neonatal Single-Stage Surgical Management of Complicated Distal Vaginal Atresia: Revisiting an Appropriate and Feasible Technique.

Abstract: BACKGROUND/PURPOSE: Hydrometrocolpos is distension of the vagina and uterus with fluid other than pus or blood. It is due to distal vaginal obstruction, and one of its possible causes is agenesis of the distal vagina. Patients with distal vaginal atresia may present in the neonatal period due to stimulation of uterine and cervical glands by maternal estrogen. In this study, we presented our results in managing neonates with complicated hydrometrocolpos due to distal vaginal atresia through a single-stage abdomino-perineal pull-through vaginoplasty.
METHODS: During the period from July 2003 to June 2018, neonates presented to the Department of Pediatric Surgery, Faculty of Medicine, Ain Shams University with complicated hydrometrocolpos (complicated with obstructive uropathy, intestinal obstruction, urinary tract infection, or systemic sepsis) due to distal vaginal atresia were included in the study. All the patients underwent single-stage abdomino-perineal pull-through vaginoplasty with drainage of the accumulated fluid. The patients were followed up for re-accumulation of fluid or vaginal stenosis for at least 4 years after the procedure.
RESULTS: During the specified period, 14 neonates with complicated hydrometrocolpos due to distal vaginal atresia (complicated with obstructive uropathy, intestinal obstruction, urinary tract infection, or systemic sepsis) presented to the Department of Pediatric Surgery, Faculty of Medicine, Ain Shams University and underwent single-stage abdomino-perineal pull-through vaginoplasty with drainage of the accumulated fluid. Their age ranged between 4 and 18 days (mean 10, median 8). Two patients (14%) developed vaginal stenosis, which responded well to dilatation, and none of the patients had re-accumulation of the fluid during the follow-up period.
CONCLUSION: Single-stage abdomino-perineal pull-through vaginoplasty in neonates with complicated distal vaginal atresia (complicated with obstructive uropathy, intestinal obstruction, urinary tract infection, or systemic sepsis) is an appropriate and feasible technique with a satisfactory outcome.
TYPE OF THE STUDY: Treatment study.
LEVEL OF EVIDENCE RATING: IV.

Citation: Elsherbeny M, et al. Neonatal Single-Stage Surgical Management of Complicated Distal Vaginal Atresia: Revisiting an Appropriate and Feasible Technique. Neonatal Single-Stage Surgical Management of Complicated Distal Vaginal Atresia: Revisiting an Appropriate and Feasible Technique. 2024; 37:63-66. doi: 10.1016/j.jpag.2023.09.001

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37704035/
