PMID: 37706320
Title: Single-Cell RNA Sequencing of Coronary Perivascular Adipose Tissue From End-Stage Heart Failure Patients Identifies SPP1+ Macrophage Subpopulation as a Target for Alleviating Fibrosis.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Perivascular adipose tissue (PVAT) is vital for vascular homeostasis, and PVAT dysfunction is associated with increased atherosclerotic plaque burden. But the mechanisms underlining coronary PVAT dysfunction in coronary atherosclerosis remain elusive.
METHODS: We performed single-cell RNA sequencing of the stromal vascular fraction of coronary PVAT from 3 groups of heart transplant recipients with end-stage heart failure, including 3 patients with nonobstructive coronary atherosclerosis, 3 patients with obstructive coronary artery atherosclerosis, and 4 nonatherosclerosis control subjects. Bioinformatics was used to annotate the cellular populations, depict the cellular developmental trajectories and interactions, and explore the differences among 3 groups of coronary PVAT at the cellular and molecular levels. Pathological staining, quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction, and in vitro studies were performed to validate the key findings.
RESULTS: Ten cell types were identified among 67 936 cells from human coronary PVAT. Several cellular subpopulations, including SPP1+ (secreted phosphoprotein 1) macrophages and profibrotic fibroadipogenic progenitor cells, were accumulated in PVAT surrounding atherosclerotic coronary arteries compared with nonatherosclerosis coronary arteries. The fibrosis percentage was increased in PVAT surrounding atherosclerotic coronary arteries, and it was positively associated with the grade of coronary artery stenosis. Cellular interaction analysis suggested OPN (osteopontin) secreted by SPP1+ macrophages interacted with CD44 (cluster of differentiation 44)/integrin on fibroadipogenic progenitor cells. Strikingly, correlation analyses uncovered that higher level of SPP1 in PVAT correlates with a more severe fibrosis degree and a higher coronary stenosis grade. In vitro studies showed that conditioned medium from atherosclerotic coronary PVAT promoted the migration and proliferation of fibroadipogenic progenitor cells, while such effect was prevented by blocking CD44 or integrin.
CONCLUSIONS: SPP1+ macrophages accumulated in the PVAT surrounding atherosclerotic coronary arteries, and they promoted the migration and proliferation of fibroadipogenic progenitor cells via OPN-CD44/integrin interaction and thus aggravated the fibrosis of coronary PVAT, which was positively correlated to the coronary stenosis burden. Therefore, SPP1+ macrophages in coronary PVAT may participate in the progression of coronary atherosclerosis.

Citation: Fu M, et al. Single-Cell RNA Sequencing of Coronary Perivascular Adipose Tissue From End-Stage Heart Failure Patients Identifies SPP1+ Macrophage Subpopulation as a Target for Alleviating Fibrosis. Single-Cell RNA Sequencing of Coronary Perivascular Adipose Tissue From End-Stage Heart Failure Patients Identifies SPP1+ Macrophage Subpopulation as a Target for Alleviating Fibrosis. 2023; 43:2143-2164. doi: 10.1161/ATVBAHA.123.319828

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37706320/
