PMID: 37707515
Title: [Interdisciplinary defect reconstruction of upper aerodigestive fistulas-case series and treatment algorithm].

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Persistent complex defects and dysfunctions of the upper aerodigestive tract after tumor surgery represent a major challenge. The aim of this study was to evaluate the effectiveness of an interdisciplinary approach using the free anterolateral thigh flap (ALT) as a reconstruction option in the upper aerodigestive tract.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: The retrospective study identified 5 patients with complex defects after laryngectomy/pharyngolaryngectomy (LE/PLE) and multiple revision surgeries between 2017 and 2023. The operations were performed by an interdisciplinary team from otolaryngology, plastic surgery, and visceral/thoracic surgery. The results of the microsurgical reconstruction were analyzed.
RESULTS: There was an average of six previous operations. The defects included tracheoesophageal fistulas, pharyngocutaneous fistulas, neopharyngeal stenosis, and combinations thereof. Successful reconstruction was achieved in 100% of patients using the ALT flap. In 2 patients, ALT flow-through flaps were used with an additional free jejunal interposition (JI) and in 3 patients split-ALT flaps were used. The major complication rate was 40% and the minor complication rate was 20%.
CONCLUSION: Complex defects of the upper aerodigestive tract with multiple previous operations can be successfully reconstructed. Because of its versatility, the ALT flap seems to be a very good option. Prerequisite for this is an interdisciplinary treatment approach with a critical assessment of patient- and disease-specific factors.

Citation: Nolte S, et al. [Interdisciplinary defect reconstruction of upper aerodigestive fistulas-case series and treatment algorithm]. [Interdisciplinary defect reconstruction of upper aerodigestive fistulas-case series and treatment algorithm]. 2023; 71:795-801. doi: 10.1007/s00106-023-01358-y

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37707515/
