PMID: 37701754
Title: Vaginal stenosis treatment using computed tomography and fluoroscopy guidance.

Abstract: INTRODUCTION: Vaginal stenosis is a common complication following construction of a neovagina with vascularized myocutaneous flaps. This is primarily because of inconsistent or inappropriate vaginal dilator use. Image-guided recanalization, especially for obstructed genitourinary tracts, is an emerging idea in interventional radiology. Although multiple surgical techniques have been reported to treat vaginal agenesis or obstruction, the idea of image-guided recanalization of vaginal stenosis is a relatively new management strategy for vaginal stenosis.
CASE: We present a challenging case of a patient who initially presented with the complaint of increasing pelvic pressure after the creation of a neovagina via vaginoplasty. She had a distal neovagina created after extensive surgical resection for a large infiltrating pelvic rectal adenocarcinoma. A computed tomography scan revealed a fluid-filled neovaginal abscess. Examination under anesthesia revealed complete stenosis of the neovagina with no identifiable tract for dilation.
INTERVENTION: A computed tomography scan and fluoroscopy-guided sharp recanalization of the stenosed neovagina was performed, followed by serial fluoroscopic balloon angioplasty to dilate the stenosed neovagina. Finally, the patient underwent a gynecologic surgery for the excision of remaining granulation tissue to produce a more permanent patent neovagina, followed by regular and proper use of vaginal dilators to ensure patency.
CONCLUSION: This case report demonstrates that image-guided techniques can be used to aid in vaginal recanalization in the postoperative setting.

Citation: Mushtaq A, et al. Vaginal stenosis treatment using computed tomography and fluoroscopy guidance. Vaginal stenosis treatment using computed tomography and fluoroscopy guidance. 2023; 3:100257. doi: 10.1016/j.xagr.2023.100257

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37701754/
