PMID: 37705420
Title: Whole Foods Introduction Associated With Symptomatic Anastomotic Ulceration in Children With Short Bowel Syndrome.

Abstract: OBJECTIVES: Anastomotic ulceration (AU) is a rare but life-threatening complication of pediatric short bowel syndrome (SBS). AUs may be challenging to detect and refractory to treatment. This study aimed to identify features associated with symptomatic bleeding AUs in children with SBS and factors that may impact resolution of bleeding. The relationship between dietary changes and symptomatic anastomotic hemorrhage was also explored.
METHODS: We conducted a retrospective chart review of 381 patients cared for in the Intestinal Rehabilitation Program at our center from 2013 to 2022. Patients with symptomatic AUs were identified based on at least 1 endoscopic procedure showing AUs and evidence of clinically significant gastrointestinal bleeding. We collected patient demographics, clinical characteristics, dietary history, radiologic imaging, and histopathology. We used descriptive statistics to identify patterns of presentation.
RESULTS: AUs were identified in 22 patients who were followed for a median duration of 2.9 years after anastomotic ulcer identification. AUs uniformly evolved years after the initial anastomosis (median 3.2 years). Characteristics included bowel stricture (4/22), small bowel-colon anastomosis (19/22), partial colectomy (17/22), and an increase in whole foods fraction (12/18). Bleeding resolved with operative intervention in the majority with anastomotic stricture (3/4). Recurrent bleeding was common in those without stricture (13/18). In a subset of patients without stricture, whole food reduction was associated with improvement or resolution of bleeding (5/6).
CONCLUSIONS: We observed a higher proportion of patients with AUs who responded to surgical intervention in the subset of children with definitive anastomotic strictures versus those without, suggesting that careful characterization of intestinal anatomy may be critical to predicting response to therapy. We also observed that bleeding from AU typically first manifested within 1 year of a shift from elemental or hydrolyzed enteral formula to a whole food-based diet (including commercial blenderized feeds), which may indicate that components of the enteral diet play a role in the pathogenesis of AU. Further studies are needed to validate these hypotheses.

Citation: Zong W, et al. Whole Foods Introduction Associated With Symptomatic Anastomotic Ulceration in Children With Short Bowel Syndrome. Whole Foods Introduction Associated With Symptomatic Anastomotic Ulceration in Children With Short Bowel Syndrome. 2023; 77:788-795. doi: 10.1097/MPG.0000000000003942

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37705420/
