PMID: 37701700
Title: Anti-reflux effects of a novel esophagogastric asymmetric anastomosis technique after laparoscopic proximal gastrectomy.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Reflux esophagitis is a common postoperative complication of proximal gastrectomy. There is an urgent need for a safer method of performing esophageal-gastric anastomosis that reduces the risk of reflux after proximal gastrectomy. We hypothesize that a novel technique termed esophagogastric asymmetric anastomosis (EGAA) can prevent postoperative reflux in a safe and feasible manner.
AIM: To observe a novel method of EGAA to prevent postoperative reflux.
METHODS: Initially, we employed a thermal stress computer to simulate and analyze gastric peristalsis at the site of an esophagogastric asymmetric anastomosis. This was done in order to better understand the anti-reflux function and mechanism. Next, we performed digestive tract reconstruction using the EGAA technique in 13 patients who had undergone laparoscopic proximal gastrectomy. Post-surgery, we monitored the structure and function of the reconstruction through imaging exams and gastroscopy. Finally, the patients were followed up to assess the efficacy of the anti-reflux effects.
RESULTS: Our simulation experiments have demonstrated that the clockwise contraction caused by gastric peristalsis and the expansion of the gastric fundus caused by the increase of intragastric pressure could significantly tighten the anastomotic stoma, providing a means to prevent the reverse flow of gastric fluids. Thirteen patients with esophagogastric junction tumors underwent laparoscopic proximal gastrectomy, with a mean operation time of 304.2 ± 44.3 min. After the operation, the upper gastroenterography in supine/low head positions showed that eight patients exhibited no gastroesophageal reflux, three had mild reflux, and two had obvious reflux. The abdominal computed tomography examination showed a valve-like structure at the anastomosis. During follow-up, gastroscopy revealed a closed valve-like form at the anastomosis site without stenosis or signs of reflux esophagitis in 11 patients. Only two patients showed gastroesophageal reflux symptoms and mild reflux esophagitis and were treated with proton pump inhibitor therapy.
CONCLUSION: EGAA is a feasible and safe surgical method, with an excellent anti-reflux effect after proximal gastrectomy.

Citation: Pang LQ, et al. Anti-reflux effects of a novel esophagogastric asymmetric anastomosis technique after laparoscopic proximal gastrectomy. Anti-reflux effects of a novel esophagogastric asymmetric anastomosis technique after laparoscopic proximal gastrectomy. 2023; 15:1761-1773. doi: 10.4240/wjgs.v15.i8.1761

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37701700/
