PMID: 37706377
Title: Minimally invasive direct coronary artery bypass and percutaneous coronary intervention followed by transcatheter aortic valve implantation: A promising concept in high-risk octogenarians.

Abstract: OBJECTIVES: In this article, we present our initial clinical experience with staged minimally invasive direct coronary bypass (MIDCAB), percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI), and transcatheter aortic valve implantation (TAVI) in high-risk octogenarians (Hybrid).
BACKGROUND: The use of percutaneous techniques for managing structural heart diseases, especially in elderly high-risk patients, has revolutionized the treatment of structural heart diseases. These procedures are present predominantly being offered as isolated interventions. The feasibility, clinical benefit, and outcomes of combining these techniques with MIDCAB have not been sufficiently explored and have subsequently been underreported in the contemporary literature.
METHODS: Four consecutive octogenarians with severe aortic stenosis (AS) and complex coronary artery disease (CAD) that were at high risk for conventional surgery with extracorporeal circulation (ECC) were discussed in our Multidisciplinary Heart Team (MDH). Our MDH consisted of an interventional cardiologist, cardiac surgeon, and cardiac anesthesiologist. A hybrid approach with the alternative strategy comprising of MIDCAB, PCI, and TAVI in a staged fashion was agreed on. All 4 patients had both PCI/stenting and MIDCAB prior to deployment of the TAVI-prosthesis.
RESULTS: From January 2019 to December 2020, 4 consecutive patients aged between 83 and 85 (3 male/1 female) years were scheduled for MIDCAB/PCI followed by percutaneous treatment of severe symptomatic AS. Intraoperatively, one patient was converted to full sternotomy, and surgery was performed by off-pump coronary artery bypass grafting. The overall procedural success rate was 100% in all 4 patients with resolution of their initial presenting cardiopulmonary symptoms. There were no severe complications associated with all hybrid procedures. There was no 30-day mortality in all patients. All patients were discharged home with a median hospital stay ranging between 9 and 25 days. All patients have since then been followed-up regularly. There was one noncardiac-related mortality at 6-months postsurgery. All other patients were well at 1-year follow-up with improved New York Heart Association Class II.
CONCLUSIONS: In a selected group of elderly, high prohibitive risk patients with CAD and severe symptomatic AS, a staged approach with MIDCAB and PCI followed by TAVI can be safely performed with excellent outcomes. We advocate a MDH-based preliminary evaluation of this patient cohort in selecting suitable patients and appropriate timing of each stage of the hybrid procedure.

Citation: Alozie A, et al. Minimally invasive direct coronary artery bypass and percutaneous coronary intervention followed by transcatheter aortic valve implantation: A promising concept in high-risk octogenarians. Minimally invasive direct coronary artery bypass and percutaneous coronary intervention followed by transcatheter aortic valve implantation: A promising concept in high-risk octogenarians. 2023; 26:143-148. doi: 10.4103/aca.aca_165_21

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37706377/
