PMID: 37716642
Title: Lifetime Management of Patients With Severe Aortic Stenosis in the Era of Transcatheter Aortic Valve Replacement.

Abstract: Aortic stenosis is the most common valvular disease. Surgical aortic valve replacement (SAVR) using mechanical valves has been the preferred treatment for younger patients, but bioprosthetic valves are gaining favour to avoid anticoagulation with warfarin. Transcatheter aortic valve replacement (TAVR) was approved in recent years for the treatment of severe aortic stenosis in intermediate- and low-risk patients as an alternative to SAVR. The longer life expectancy of these groups of patients might exceed the durability of the TAVR or SAVR bioprosthetic valves. Therefore, many patients need 2 or even 3 interventions during their lifetime. Because it has important implications on the feasibility of subsequent procedures, the decision between opting for SAVR or TAVR as the primary procedure requires thorough consideration by the heart team, incorporating patient preferences, clinical indicators, and anatomic aspects. If TAVR is favoured initially, selecting the valve type and determining the implantation level should be conducted, aiming for positive outcomes in the index intervention and keeping in mind the potential for subsequent TAVR-in-TAVR procedures. When SAVR is selected as the primary procedure, the operator must make choices regarding the valve type and the potential need for aortic root enlargement, with the intention of facilitating future valve-in-valve interventions. This narrative review examines the existing evidence concerning the lifelong management of severe aortic stenosis, delving into available treatment strategies, particularly emphasising the initial procedure's selection and its impact on subsequent interventions.

Citation: Jubran A, et al. Lifetime Management of Patients With Severe Aortic Stenosis in the Era of Transcatheter Aortic Valve Replacement. Lifetime Management of Patients With Severe Aortic Stenosis in the Era of Transcatheter Aortic Valve Replacement. 2024; 40:210-217. doi: 10.1016/j.cjca.2023.09.010

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37716642/
