PMID: 37712346
Title: Pulsed field ablation for pulmonary vein isolation: Preclinical safety and effectiveness of a novel hexaspline ablation catheter.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Pulsed-field ablation (PFA) has emerged as a nonthermal energy source for cardiac ablation, with potential safety advantages over radiofrequency ablation (RFA) and cryoballoon ablation.
OBJECTIVE: To report the preclinical results of a novel hexaspline PFA catheter for pulmonary vein isolation (PVI), and to verify the influence of PFA on esophagus by comparing with RFA.
METHODS: This study included a total of 15 canines for the efficacy and safety study and four swine for the esophageal safety study. The 15 canines were divided into an acute cohort (n = 3), a 30-day follow-up cohort (n = 5) and a 90-day follow-up cohort (n = 7), PVI was performed with the novel hexaspline PFA ablation catheter. In the esophageal safety study, four swine were divided into PFA cohort (n = 2) and RFA cohort (n = 2), esophageal injury swine model was adopted, the esophagus was intubated with an esophageal balloon retractor, under fluoroscopy, the DV8 device was inflated with a mixture of saline and contrast and rotated to displace the esophagus rightward and anteriorly toward the ablation catheter in the inferior vena cava (IVC) and right inferior pulmonary vein (PV). Nine PFA applications were delivered at four locations on IVC and two locations on the right inferior PV in the PFA cohort, six RFA applications were delivered at each location in the RFA group. Histopathological analysis of all PVs, esophagus, IVC, and the adjacent lungs was performed.
RESULTS: Acute PV isolation was achieved in all 15 canines (100%), with energy delivery times of less than 3 min/animal. In the 30 and 90 days group, the overall success rates were 88.9% and 88.5% per PVs, respectively. Two right superior pulmonary veins (RSPVs) in the 30-day group, two RSPVs and one left superior PV in the 90-day group with recovered potentials. At follow-up, gross pathological examination revealed the lesions around the PVs were continuous and transmural. Masson's trichrome staining revealed the myocardial cells in the PVs became fibrotic, but small arteries and nervous tissue were preserved. Results of swine esophageal injury model revealed the esophageal luminal surface was smooth and without evidence for esophageal injury in the PFA group, whereas obvious ulceration was detected on the esophagus tunica mucosa in the RFA group.
CONCLUSION: In the chronic canine study, PFA-based PVI were safe and effective with demonstrable sparing of nerves and venous tissue. Compared with RFA, there was also good evidence for safety of PFA, avoiding PV stenosis and esophageal injury. This preclinical study provided the scientific basis for the first-in-human endocardial PFA studies.

Citation: Yu F, et al. Pulsed field ablation for pulmonary vein isolation: Preclinical safety and effectiveness of a novel hexaspline ablation catheter. Pulsed field ablation for pulmonary vein isolation: Preclinical safety and effectiveness of a novel hexaspline ablation catheter. 2023; 34:2195-2202. doi: 10.1111/jce.16067

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37712346/
