PMID: 37714319
Title: A Multicentric Study of Different Methods of Open Surgical Cerebral Revascularization for Internal Carotid Artery Orifice Stenosis.

Abstract: To analyze the long-term results of transposition of the internal carotid artery (ICA) into the lateral wall of the external carotid artery (ECA) in the presence of hemodynamically significant stenosis of the ICA. During the period from 3.10.2017 to 28.12.2020, 784 patients with isolated hemodynamically significant ICA orifice stenosis were included in the present retrospective multicentric open comparative study "Russian Birch." Depending on the implemented surgical technique, groups were formed: group 1 (n = 517) - eversion carotid endarterectomy (eCEA); group 2 (n = 193) classic CEA with implantation of a xenopericardium patch treated with di-epoxy compounds; group 3 (n = 74) - transposition of the ICA into the lateral wall of the ECA. Transposition of the ICA into the lateral wall of the ECA is performed as follows. The common carotid artery, ECA, and ICA are isolated and then they are clamped with vascular clamps. At the same time, the ICA and ECA are clamped 4 cm above the orifice. The ICA is cut 2.5 cm above the orifice. Then the section of the ICA with local stenosis in the orifice is sutured with a polypropylene suture. At the same time, the redundant nonfunctioning ICA stump is not resected due to the fact that there are receptors of the carotid sinus at the ICA orifice. Thus, such manipulation may damage the sinus, causing arterial hypertension that is difficult to control in the postoperative period. Then, in the lateral wall of the ECA 2.5 cm above the orifice, a 0.5 cm diameter round hole is formed using a scalpel and angled vascular scissors. Then an end-to-side anastomosis between the severed section of the ICA and the rounded opening formed in the lateral wall of the ECA is performed using a polypropylene suture. Vascular clamps are removed and blood flow is started. No complications were detected in the hospital postoperative period. No adverse cardiovascular events were registered in group 3 in the long-term follow-up period. The group of classic CEA with implantation of a xenopericardium patch treated with di-epoxy compounds showed the highest number of fatal outcomes from acute cerebrovascular accident (CVA) (Group 1: 0.2%, n = 1; group 2: 2.6%; n = 5; p = 0.008); nonfatal ischemic CVA (group 1: 0.6%, n = 3; group 2: 14.0%, n = 27; p < 0.0001); ICA restenosis (more than 60%) requiring a repeat revascularization (group 1: 0.8%, n = 4; group 2: 16.6%, n = 32; p < 0.0001). The cause of all CVAs after classical CEA was restenosis of the ICA due to neointimal hyperplasia; after eversion CEA and progression of atherosclerosis. The composite end point was statistically more frequent after classical CEE with plasty of the reconstruction area with a diepoxy-treated xenopericardium patch (group 1: 1.0%, n = 5; group 2: 17.7%, n = 33; p < 0.0001). When analyzing the survival curves free of ICA restenosis, it was determined that the overwhelming number of all ICA restenosis requiring revascularization in the group of classical CEA with implantation of a diepoxy-treated xenopericardium patch is diagnosed as early as 6 months after surgery. In the group of eversion CEA, the loss of the vessel lumen is most often visualized more than a year after the intervention. When comparing the survival curves (Logrank test), it was determined that restenosis of the ICA develops statistically more frequently (p < 0.0001) after classical CEA with implantation of a diepoxytreated xenopericardium patch. Transposition of the ICA into the lateral wall of the ECA is not accompanied by the risk of ICA restenosis due to the absence of inflammation of the internal artery wall after endarterectomy. Thus, this technique can be an alternative to CEA and be routinely used in case of local hemodynamically significant stenosis of the ICA orifice. Classical CEA with patch implantation is the least preferable operation due to the high risk of ICA restenosis in the mid-term and long-term follow-up.

Citation: Kazantsev A, et al. A Multicentric Study of Different Methods of Open Surgical Cerebral Revascularization for Internal Carotid Artery Orifice Stenosis. A Multicentric Study of Different Methods of Open Surgical Cerebral Revascularization for Internal Carotid Artery Orifice Stenosis. 2024; 49:102082. doi: 10.1016/j.cpcardiol.2023.102082

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37714319/
