PMID: 37718998
Title: Transcatheter mitral valve replacement to treat severe calcified rheumatic native mitral stenosis: role of three-dimensional printing-a case report.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Rheumatic heart disease is a major disease that seriously affects human health and survival worldwide. Rheumatic mitral stenosis often has relatively complex pathological changes, and its progression leads to various manifestations of mitral valve dysfunction and adverse clinical events.
CASE SUMMARY: We present a 60-year-old patient who developed chest tightness, shortness of breath, and bilateral lower limb oedema in 2018 (New York Heart Association functional class III). Systolic and diastolic murmurs could be heard in the mitral auscultation area. In December 2021, the patient was admitted to the hospital with stroke. Thereafter, transthoracic echocardiography and computed tomography were performed, and the progress of rheumatic mitral stenosis was recorded. Due to the patient's high surgical risk, a patient-specific three-dimensional printed model was used to observe anatomical structures and simulate main procedures, and the surgeons finally chose to perform transcatheter mitral valve replacement. The balloon-expandable bioprothesis was released from the right femoral artery to treat the rheumatic mitral stenosis. The patient remained asymptomatic at the 6-month follow-up.
DISCUSSION: For patients with rheumatic mitral stenosis with high surgical risk, it is feasible to conduct transcatheter mitral valve replacement under the guidance of three-dimensional printing.

Citation: Zhai ME, et al. Transcatheter mitral valve replacement to treat severe calcified rheumatic native mitral stenosis: role of three-dimensional printing-a case report. Transcatheter mitral valve replacement to treat severe calcified rheumatic native mitral stenosis: role of three-dimensional printing-a case report. 2023; 7:ytad434. doi: 10.1093/ehjcr/ytad434

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37718998/
