PMID: 37721311
Title: Long-term clinical outcomes of drug-coated balloon for the management of chronic total occlusions.

Abstract: OBJECTIVES: This study aims to compare the clinical outcomes of patients with de novo chronic total occlusion (CTO) lesions treated by hybrid strategy and drug-coated balloons (DCB)-only strategy.
BACKGROUNDS: DCBs have been used as an alternative to or in combination with drug-eluting stents in CTO lesions. However, the clinical impact of DCB treatment on CTO lesion remains uncertain.
METHODS: We retrospectively enrolled 154 patients with de novo CTO lesions treated by DCB, including 57 cases in hybrid group and 97 cases in DCB-only group.
RESULTS: The lesions in hybrid group were more complicated than those in DCB-only group as shown by higher J-CTO score, and therefore higher percentage of retrograde approach, more IVUS guidance, more CTO guidewires, and longer procedural time were demonstrated. Although the percentage of non-flow-limiting dissection and residual stenosis of more than 30% were lower in hybrid group, TIMI flow grade, satisfactory and acceptable recanalization rate were not significantly different between two groups. During a median follow-up was 470 days, the incidence of target lesion revascularization (TLR), myocardial infarction and cardiac death was 11.0%, 1.3% and 1.9%, respectively. The long-term TLR-free survival was comparable between hybrid and DCB-only groups. By multivariate analysis, DCB length and age were predictors of TLR.
CONCLUSION: DCB treatment appears effective and safe in selected de novo CTO lesions during long-term follow up. The recanalization results and long-term outcomes are comparable between hybrid and DCB-only group despite more complicated lesions in hybrid group.

Citation: Qin Q, et al. Long-term clinical outcomes of drug-coated balloon for the management of chronic total occlusions. Long-term clinical outcomes of drug-coated balloon for the management of chronic total occlusions. 2023; 34:555-561. doi: 10.1097/MCA.0000000000001288

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37721311/
