PMID: 37726075
Title: Proof of Concept: A New Solution for Low-Profile Transcatheter Implantation of Optimus-L Stents in Small Children.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: There is no stent designed or approved for use in infants. We sought to obtain in vitro and in vivo data on a new concept conceived to implant Optimus-L stents at infant vessel diameters and offer a potential long term stent solution.
METHODS: Nineteen Optimus-L stents were mounted on 8 types of angioplasty balloons with diameters 6, 8, and 10 mm with the use of an injection-moulded hand crimper. We evaluated balloon-stent unit (BSU) stability before insertion and advancement through short Terumo introducers with incremental French size and possibility of side-arm contrast injections. Three types of long sheaths were tested. Stents were inflated to balloon nominal diameters and re-expanded to 18 and 23 mm. Stent recoil, foreshortening, and fracture were evaluated. In vivo implantations were performed afterward.
RESULTS: In vitro: Medtronic Evercross balloons and modified Terumo Destination sheaths were the best combination: BSUs were inserted in 6 F sheaths with possible injections (for 6 and 8 mm balloons), and 7 F sheaths without injections (for the 10 mm balloon). Retrieving BSUs inside the sheath required 1 additional F-size. Boston Scientific Sterling and Balton Lovix balloons, as well as APT Braidin L guiding sheaths showed unsatisfactory performance. Dilation up to 23 mm was possible, and stent shortening was < 24% at 18 mm and < 37% at 23 mm. Recoil was limited, and no stent fractured. In vivo: Optimus-L stents were used to treat 2 infants with aortic coarctation and 2 children with pulmonary artery stenosis with the use of 8 mm balloons and low-profile access.
CONCLUSIONS: Optimus-L stents can be implanted safely in small patients with a low-profile approach. These stents have the potential to achieve adult size while maintaining structural integrity.

Citation: Haddad RN, et al. Proof of Concept: A New Solution for Low-Profile Transcatheter Implantation of Optimus-L Stents in Small Children. Proof of Concept: A New Solution for Low-Profile Transcatheter Implantation of Optimus-L Stents in Small Children. 2024; 40:77-86. doi: 10.1016/j.cjca.2023.09.015

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37726075/
