PMID: 37724796
Title: Technical considerations and long-term results of endovascular venous stenting to control venous hypertension from meningiomas invading intracranial venous sinuses.

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: Meningiomas invading the intracranial venous sinuses may cause intracranial venous hypertension, papilledema, and visual compromise. Sinus resection and graft reconstructions, however, add significant complexity to tumor surgery, with the potential for increased morbidity. In this study, the authors explored whether venous sinus stenting might provide an alternative means of controlling venous hypertension that would be sustainable over the long term.
METHODS: The authors performed a retrospective review of all 16 patients with intracranial meningiomas who underwent stenting at their institution for venous sinus compromise. At presentation, all had headache and 9 had papilledema. Thirteen patients had 1 meningioma and 3 had 2 or more. Three patients had had previous tumor resection and radiotherapy. One patient had been treated with a lumboperitoneal shunt and radiotherapy. The median length of clinical follow-up was 8 years (range 4 months-18 years).
RESULTS: Venous sinus narrowing was often not confined to the site of meningioma, and bilateral transverse sinus narrowing, reminiscent of that seen in idiopathic intracranial hypertension, was present in 7 patients with sagittal sinus meningiomas. Eleven patients had stents placed solely across sinus narrowing caused by meningioma. Five patients had additional stents placed at other sites of venous narrowing at the same time: in one of these patients, a stent was placed across a defect in the sagittal sinus caused by previous surgery, and in the 4 other patients, stents were placed across nontumor narrowings of the transverse sinuses. In 1 patient, the jugular vein was also stented. Nine patients developed symptomatic in-stent restenosis at the meningioma site. Eight had further stenting procedures with variable success in restoring the in-stent lumen. The remaining patient, with a late partial relapse, is being reinvestigated. Papilledema resolved in all patients after stenting. Six patients experienced prolonged and very substantial relief of all symptoms. Five patients had persistent headache despite restoration of the sinus lumen. Five had persistent symptoms associated with resistant in-stent stenosis. There were no significant complications from any of the diagnostic or therapeutic procedures.
CONCLUSIONS: In patients who are symptomatic with meningiomas obstructing the venous sinuses, successful stenting of the affected segment can give a good outcome, especially in terms of relieving papilledema. However, further procedures are often necessary to maintain stent patency, other areas of venous compromise frequently coexist, and some patients remain symptomatic despite apparently successful treatment of the index lesion. Long-term surveillance is a requirement.

Citation: Higgins JNP, et al. Technical considerations and long-term results of endovascular venous stenting to control venous hypertension from meningiomas invading intracranial venous sinuses. Technical considerations and long-term results of endovascular venous stenting to control venous hypertension from meningiomas invading intracranial venous sinuses. 2024; 140:826-838. doi: 10.3171/2023.6.JNS23607

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37724796/
