PMID: 37728801
Title: Global and regional myocardial function assessment in symptomatic patients with chronic coronary syndrome using longitudinal strain and noninvasive myocardial work.

Abstract: Speckle tracking echocardiography (STE) derived longitudinal strain (LS) and noninvasive pressure-strain loop (PSL) derived myocardial work (MW) are more sensitive than conventional echocardiographic parameters in quantitative assessment of early myocardial dysfunction. The aim of this study was to assess left ventricular (LV) global and regional myocardial function in symptomatic chronic coronary syndrome (CCS) patients using the two promising methods. Transthoracic echocardiography was performed on patients with angina or equivalent symptoms before coronary angiography. STE-based LS and PSL-based MW analysis were carried out on each patient for global and regional myocardial function assessment. A total of 102 patients were classified into significant and nonsignificant coronary artery stenosis (CAS) groups. Among global myocardial function parameters, LS had the biggest area under the curve (AUC) of 0.735, with cutoff value of 18.4% (sensitivity, 79.6%; specificity, 72.9%), but remained statistically alike with all MW indices in predicting significant CAS (P>0.05 for all). Among regional myocardial function parameters, both LS and MW indices had predictive value for significant left anterior descending artery (LAD) or left circumflex artery (LCX) stenosis, while only myocardial work efficiency (MWE) for right coronary artery (RCA) stenosis. Both global and regional LS and MW have predictive value for significant CAS, but their value of regionalized assessment varies with specific coronary artery involvement.

Citation: Lv H, et al. Global and regional myocardial function assessment in symptomatic patients with chronic coronary syndrome using longitudinal strain and noninvasive myocardial work. Global and regional myocardial function assessment in symptomatic patients with chronic coronary syndrome using longitudinal strain and noninvasive myocardial work. 2023; 39:2465-2474. doi: 10.1007/s10554-023-02951-6

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37728801/
