PMID: 37725362
Title: Cardiorespiratory fitness and the incidence of surgery for aortic valve stenosis-the HUNT study.

Abstract: OBJECTIVES: Aortic valve stenosis (AVS) shares many risk factors with coronary disease, the latter being strongly and inversely associated with physical activity (PA) and cardiorespiratory fitness (CRF). However, the relationship between PA, CRF and AVS needs to be established. We explored whether PA habits and estimated CRF affect the risk of developing AVS demanding aortic valve replacement (AVR) and how these factors affect postoperative mortality.
METHODS: Participants from the second and third waves of Trøndelag Health Study were cross-linked with a local heart surgery registry and the Norwegian Cause of Death Registry. Estimated CRF was calculated through a developed algorithm based on clinical and self-reported data. Fine-Gray competing risk analyses were used to investigate how PA habits and estimated CRF were associated with the risk of AVR across CRF quintiles, PA groups and per 1-metabolic equivalent task (MET) (3.5 ml/min/kg).
RESULTS: In a study population of 57 214 participants, we found a 15% [95% confidence interval (CI) 1-27] reduced risk of AVR per 1-MET estimated CRF increment. Those in the highest CRF quintile had a 56% (95% CI 14-77) lower risk of surgery compared to the lowest quintile. Analyses on PA groups did not show significant results. Finally, we found a 37% (95% CI 17-53) lower risk of postoperative mortality per 1-MET increased estimated CRF.
CONCLUSIONS: Our findings indicate a strong and inverse relationship between estimated CRF and incidence of AVR due to AVS. Higher estimated CRF was associated with lower mortality after surgery.

Citation: Nystøyl BTS, et al. Cardiorespiratory fitness and the incidence of surgery for aortic valve stenosis-the HUNT study. Cardiorespiratory fitness and the incidence of surgery for aortic valve stenosis-the HUNT study. 2023; 64:(unknown pages). doi: 10.1093/ejcts/ezad322

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37725362/
