PMID: 37728230
Title: Single-center review on safety of biodegradable airway stenting in pediatric population.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Tracheobronchomalacia (TBM) and airway stenosis are recognized etiologies of airway obstruction among children. Their management is often challenging, requiring multiple interventions and prolonged respiratory support with associated long-term morbidity. Metallic or silicone stents have been used with mixed success and high complication rates. More recently biodegradable Ella stents (BES) provided an attractive interventional option.
OBJECTIVES: We report our experience in the treatment of TBM and vascular airway compression using BES. We deliberately downsized them to minimize intraluminal granulation tissue formation.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Retrospective study over an 8-year period between November 2012 and December 2020 of pediatric patients with severe airway obstruction requiring airway stenting for extubation failure, malacic death spells, recurrent chest infections, or lung collapse.
RESULTS: Thirty-three patients (5 tracheal and 28 bronchial diseases) required 55 BES during the study period. The smallest patient weighed 1.8 kg. Median age of patient at first stent implantation was 13.1 months (IQR 4.9-58.3). The majority of the bronchial stents were in the left main bronchus (93%), of which 57% for vascular compression. Repeat stents were used in 19 patients (57.7%), with a range of two to four times. We did not experience erosion, infection, or obstructive granuloma needing removal by forceps or lasering. Three stent grid occluded with secretions needing bronchoscopic lavage. Stent migration occurred in three patients.
CONCLUSIONS: BES holds promise as a treatment option with low rate of adverse effects for a specific subset of pediatric patients with airway malacia or vascular compression. Further studies are warranted.

Citation: Minen F, et al. Single-center review on safety of biodegradable airway stenting in pediatric population. Single-center review on safety of biodegradable airway stenting in pediatric population. 2023; 58:3437-3446. doi: 10.1002/ppul.26670

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37728230/
