PMID: 37726056
Title: Signal intensity coefficient as a detector of aortic stenosis-induced myocardial fibrosis and its correlation to the long term outcome.

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: Despite advanced aortic valve replacement techniques, aortic stenosis (AS)-induced irreversible myocardial fibrosis contributes to poorer outcomes. Therefore, in addition to early diagnosis of AS, detecting myocardial fibrosis is crucial for physicians to determine the timing of surgery. The Signal Intensity Coefficient (SIC) was used to detect subtle myocardial deformation. Hence, we aimed to investigate whether SIC correlated with myocardial dysfunction and fibrosis from both clinical and preclinical perspectives.
METHODS: We collected medical records and echocardiography images, including the SIC of patients who underwent surgical aortic valve replacement (AVR) for AS from 2010 to 2015. The endpoint of the study was mortality. Median follow-up period was 80 months.
RESULTS: Among 109 patients, 15 died due to cardiovascular causes. Although SIC decreased in all patients post-AVR, patients with an SIC ≥0.34 before surgeries presented with a higher probability of cardiovascular death. In contrast, changes in the left ventricular (LV) ejection fraction, LV mass index, and LV volume failed to predict outcomes. Similarly, SIC was obtained in mice undergoing aortic banding and debanding surgery for comparison with the degree of myocardial fibrosis. SIC was continuously elevated after aortic banding and declined gradually after debanding surgery in mice. Debanding surgery indicated the regression of aortic banding-induced myocardial fibrosis.
CONCLUSION: Pre-AVR SIC was associated with the risk of cardiovascular death and reflected the degree of myocardial fibrosis. Further investigations are required to study the clinical application of SIC in patients with AS.

Citation: Chang WT, et al. Signal intensity coefficient as a detector of aortic stenosis-induced myocardial fibrosis and its correlation to the long term outcome. Signal intensity coefficient as a detector of aortic stenosis-induced myocardial fibrosis and its correlation to the long term outcome. 2024; 394:131367. doi: 10.1016/j.ijcard.2023.131367

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37726056/
