PMID: 37721132
Title: Diseases of the Coronary Microcirculation: Diagnosis and Treatment.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Coronary microvascular dysfunction (CMD) comprises a variety of pathogenic mechanisms that impair the microcirculation of the heart. Clinical studies have shown that 30-50% of patients suffering from myocardial ischemia without significant coronary artery stenosis have CMD. The disease is associated with ele - vated mortality and poor quality of life. Whenever a patient presents with symptoms of angina pectoris and no underlying disease is detected by the usual methods, CMD should be considered a possible cause.
METHODS: This review is based on publications retrieved by a selective search in PubMed and on current international guidelines and recommendations of specialty societies.
RESULTS: The diagnosis of CMD is based on objective evidence of a microvascular origin of symptoms. The guidelines contain a class IIa recommendation for invasive coronary flow reserve and microvascular resistance measurements. Noninvasive tests such as positron emission tomography and cardiac magnetic resonance imaging are less accurate and are given a class IIb recommendation. No highquality therapeutic trials are available to date, and the treatment of CMD is thus based on that of chronic coronary syndrome. Lifestyle modification is performed to reduce risk factors. Patients with an abnormal coronary flow reserve or elevated microvascular resistance can be treated with an ACE inhibitor or angiotensin receptor blocker. Beta-blockers and calcium channel antagonists can relieve angina pectoris. Statins lower the LDL level and have positive pleiotropic effects. First-line treatment can be supplemented with further medications.
CONCLUSION: Approximately 25% of patients with CMD have symptoms that do not respond to intensive treatment with the currently available modalities. New treatments, including interventional therapies, are being studied. Their long-term benefit remains to be assessed and compared to that of the existing methods.

Citation: Ullrich-Daub H, et al. Diseases of the Coronary Microcirculation: Diagnosis and Treatment. Diseases of the Coronary Microcirculation: Diagnosis and Treatment. 2023; 120:739-746. doi: 10.3238/arztebl.m2023.0205

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37721132/
