PMID: 37723188
Title: Entropy generation optimization for the electroosmotic MHD fluid flow over the curved stenosis artery in the presence of thrombosis.

Abstract: The present study deals with the entropy generation analysis on the flow of an electrically conductive fluid (Blood) with [Formula: see text]-suspended nanoparticles through the irregular stenosed artery with thrombosis on the catheter. The fluid flow can be actuated by the interactions of different physical phenomena like electroosmosis, radiation, Joule heating and a uniform radial magnetic field. The analysis of different shapes and sizes of the nanoparticle is considered by taking the Crocine model. The velocity, temperature, and concentration distributions are computed using the Crank-Nicholson method within the framework of the Debye-Huckel linearization approximation. In order to see how blood flow changes in response to different parameters, the velocity contour is calculated. The aluminium oxide nanoparticles employed in this research have several potential uses in biomedicine and biosensing. The surface's stability, biocompatibility, and reactivity may be enhanced by surface engineering, making the material effective for deoxyribonucleic acid sensing. It may be deduced that the velocity profile reduces as the nanoparticle's size grows while depicts the reverse trend for the shape size. In a region close to the walls, the entropy profile decreases, while in the region in the middle, it rises as the magnetic field parameter rises. The present endeavour can be beneficial in biomedical sciences in designing better biomedical devices and gaining insight into the hemodynamic flow for treatment modalities.

Citation: Sharma BK, et al. Entropy generation optimization for the electroosmotic MHD fluid flow over the curved stenosis artery in the presence of thrombosis. Entropy generation optimization for the electroosmotic MHD fluid flow over the curved stenosis artery in the presence of thrombosis. 2023; 13:15441. doi: 10.1038/s41598-023-42540-0

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37723188/
