PMID: 37731005
Title: Clinical symbiosis of hybrid nanoparticles and induced magnetic field on heat and mass transfer in multiple stenosed artery with erratic thrombosis.

Abstract: This article scrutinizes blood circulation through an artery having magnetized hybrid nanoparticles (silver and gold) with multiple stenoses at the outer walls and erratic thrombus of different radii at the center. In the realm of biomedical innovation, magnetized hybrid nanoparticles emerge as a captivating frontier. These nanoparticles, amalgamating diverse materials, exhibit magnetic properties that engender novel prospects for targeted drug delivery, medical imaging enhancement, and therapeutic interventions. The study was carried out employing modern bio-fluid dynamics (BFD) software. In this iterative procedure, a second-order finite difference approach is used to solve the governing equations with 0.005 tolerance. The experiment is performed on a blood conduit with mild stenosis assumptions, and expressions of temperature, resistance impedance to flow, velocity, wall shear stress, and pressure gradient are generated by employing related boundary conditions. No one has ever attempted to acquire the remedial impact of an induced magnetic field and hybrid nanoparticles on the bloodstream in a tapering artery containing multiple stenoses on the outside walls and multi-thrombus at the center using 3-D bio-fluid simulation. Furthermore, the study's findings are unique, and these computational discoveries were not previously published by any researcher. The findings suggest that hybrid nanoparticles can be used as medication carriers to reduce the impact of thrombosis and stenosis-induced resistance to blood flow or coagulation-related factors.

Citation: Hussain A, et al. Clinical symbiosis of hybrid nanoparticles and induced magnetic field on heat and mass transfer in multiple stenosed artery with erratic thrombosis. Clinical symbiosis of hybrid nanoparticles and induced magnetic field on heat and mass transfer in multiple stenosed artery with erratic thrombosis. 2023; 13:15588. doi: 10.1038/s41598-023-42795-7

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37731005/
