PMID: 37731993
Title: Novel deformable self-assembled magnetic anastomosis ring for endoscopic treatment of colonic stenosis via natural orifice.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Although endoscope-assisted magnetic compression anastomosis has already been reported for colonic anastomosis, there is no report on a single-approach operation using the natural orifice.
AIM: To design a deformable self-assembled magnetic anastomosis ring (DSAMAR) for colonic anastomosis for use in single-approach operation and evaluate its feasibility and safety through animal experiments.
METHODS: The animal model for colonic stenosis was prepared by partial colonic ligation in eight beagles. The magnetic compression anastomosis of their colonic stricture was performed by endoscopically assisted transanal implantation of the DSAMAR. The anastomotic specimen, obtained 2 wk after the operation, was observed by both the naked eye and a light microscope.
RESULTS: The DSAMAR was successfully inserted into the proximal end of colon stenosis through the anus. The DSAMAR of seven dogs was successfully transformed into rings, while that of the remaining dog was removed after the first deformation failed. The rings were successfully retransformed after optimization. All animals underwent colonic anastomosis using the DSAMAR. No device-related or procedure-related adverse events were observed. The colostomy specimens of the experimental dogs were obtained 2 wk after the operation. Both gross and histological observations showed good anastomotic healing.
CONCLUSION: The DSAMAR is a safe and feasible option for the treatment of colon stenosis. Its specific deformation and self-assembly capability maximize the applicability of the minimally invasive treatment.

Citation: Zhang MM, et al. Novel deformable self-assembled magnetic anastomosis ring for endoscopic treatment of colonic stenosis via natural orifice. Novel deformable self-assembled magnetic anastomosis ring for endoscopic treatment of colonic stenosis via natural orifice. 2023; 29:5005-5013. doi: 10.3748/wjg.v29.i33.5005

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37731993/
