PMID: 37736443
Title: Herpetic Esophagitis: A Cause of Dysphagia in a Malnourished Patient.

Abstract: Herpetic esophagitis (HE) is an esophageal infection caused by herpes simplex virus (HSV). Although less common, it can occasionally affect immunocompetent hosts. It can manifest as odynophagia and/or dysphagia and should lead to an investigation by upper digestive endoscopy with a biopsy. The authors report a case of a 65-year-old man with a past medical history relevant for schizophrenia, oligophrenia, and malnutrition, and no other history or evidence of immunosuppression, who presented with severe dysphagia over weeks and recent episodes of food aspiration with consequent pneumonia. An upper gastrointestinal endoscopy was performed, revealing severe stenosis at the level of the gastroesophageal junction with scar tissue, not transposable with the endoscope. The biopsy led to the diagnosis of hepatic esophagitis. Despite the immunocompetent status (excepting only the risk factor malnutrition) and treatment with acyclovir, with initial clinical improvement, the patient died a few weeks after diagnosis after multiple respiratory complications such as nosocomial infection. This case highlights that herpetic esophagitis is sometimes observed in immunocompetent hosts. HE has a self-limited course, with severe complications more frequent in immunosuppressed patients. However, it is also important to suspect this condition in immunocompetent patients and look for risk factors, given the potential morbidity this disease entails. In this group of patients, the presence of predisposing factors and associated comorbidities, such as malnutrition, alcohol consumption, or use of corticosteroids, have been associated with the development of viral esophagitis (including HE). HE remains a clinical challenge, especially in patients with risk factors for immunosuppression, such as malnutrition, as in the reported case.

Citation: Sousa B, et al. Herpetic Esophagitis: A Cause of Dysphagia in a Malnourished Patient. Herpetic Esophagitis: A Cause of Dysphagia in a Malnourished Patient. 2023; 15:e43858. doi: 10.7759/cureus.43858

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37736443/
