PMID: 37734656
Title: AI diagnosis of heart sounds differentiated with super StethoScope.

Abstract: In the aging global society, heart failure and valvular heart diseases, including aortic stenosis, are affecting millions of people and healthcare systems worldwide. Although the number of effective treatment options has increased in recent years, the lack of effective screening methods is provoking continued high mortality and rehospitalization rates. Appropriately, auscultation has been the primary option for screening such patients, however, challenges arise due to the variability in auscultation skills, the objectivity of the clinical method, and the presence of sounds inaudible to the human ear. To address challenges associated with the current approach towards auscultation, the hardware of Super StethoScope was developed. This paper is composed of (1) a background literature review of bioacoustic research regarding heart disease detection, (2) an introduction of our approach to heart sound research and development of Super StethoScope, (3) a discussion of the application of remote auscultation to telemedicine, and (4) results of a market needs survey on traditional and remote auscultation. Heart sounds and murmurs, if collected properly, have been shown to closely represent heart disease characteristics. Correspondingly, the main characteristics of Super StethoScope include: (1) simultaneous collection of electrocardiographic and heart sound for the detection of heart rate variability, (2) optimized signal-to-noise ratio in the audible frequency bands, and (3) acquisition of heart sounds including the inaudible frequency ranges. Due to the ability to visualize the data, the device is able to provide quantitative results without disturbance by sound quality alterations during remote auscultations. An online survey of 3648 doctors confirmed that auscultation is the common examination method used in today's clinical practice and revealed that artificial intelligence-based heart sound analysis systems are expected to be integrated into clinicians' practices. Super StethoScope would open new horizons for heart sound research and telemedicine.

Citation: Ogawa S, et al. AI diagnosis of heart sounds differentiated with super StethoScope. AI diagnosis of heart sounds differentiated with super StethoScope. 2024; 83:265-271. doi: 10.1016/j.jjcc.2023.09.007

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37734656/
