PMID: 37739332
Title: Quantitative analysis of selected genetic markers of induced brain stroke ischemic tolerance detected in human blood.

Abstract: A brain stroke is a serious disease and the second leading cause of death in the European Union. Carotid stenosis accounts for 15% of all ischemic cerebral strokes. However, there is currently no effective screening for carotid disease. Analysis of the DNA from peripheral blood is increasingly being used for several disease diagnoses. The potentially beneficial therapeutic method of inducing tissue tolerance to ischemia has so far been studied mainly in animal models. The aim of this study is to investigate changes in the gene expression of selected markers of brain ischemia during carotid endarterectomy, considered in this study as an activator of ischemic tolerance. During the carotid endarterectomy, there is a short-term occlusion of the internal carotid artery. Using the RT-qPCR method, we detected changes in the early identified gene markers of brain ischemia (ADM, CDKN1A, GADD45G, IL6, TM4SF1) in peripheral blood during sub lethal cerebral ischemia caused by carotid endarterectomy. Patients underwenting surgical procedure were divided into three groups: asymptomatic, symptomatic, and those who underwent carotid endarterectomy after an acute stroke. The results were compared to a negative/control group. Carotid endarterectomy had an impact on the expression of all monitored biomarkers. We observed statistically significant changes (p value 0.05-0.001) when comparing the groups among themselves, as well as the presence of ischemic tolerance of brain tissue to ischemic attacks. In conclusion, ADM, GADD45G, and TM4SF1 were affected in symptomatic patients, GADD45G and IL6 in acute patients, and CDKN1A and ADM in asymptomatic group after application of carotid endarterectomy.

Citation: Furman M, et al. Quantitative analysis of selected genetic markers of induced brain stroke ischemic tolerance detected in human blood. Quantitative analysis of selected genetic markers of induced brain stroke ischemic tolerance detected in human blood. 2023; 1821:148590. doi: 10.1016/j.brainres.2023.148590

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37739332/
