PMID: 37738782
Title: Strategy for Totally Percutaneous Management of Vascular Injury in Combined Transfemoral Transcatheter Aortic Valve Replacement and Endovascular Aortic Aneurysm Repair Procedures.

Abstract: Minimally invasive treatment of severe aortic stenosis by transcatheter aortic valve replacement (TAVR) and infrarenal abdominal aortic aneurysm by endovascular aortic aneurysm repair (EVAR) requires large-bore vascular access. These percutaneous transfemoral interventions may be performed as a combined procedure, however, vascular injury may necessitate surgical vascular repair. We implemented a strategy designed to enable percutaneous vascular repair, with stent-graft implantation, if necessary, after these combined procedures. We identified all combined percutaneous TAVR and EVAR procedures which were performed at our institution. Patient and procedural characteristics and clinical outcomes were analyzed. Six consecutive patients underwent total percutaneous combined TAVR and EVAR procedures. In all cases, TAVR was performed first and was followed by EVAR. Both common femoral arteries served as primary access sites for delivery of the implanted devices and hemostasis was achieved by deployment of vascular closure devices. Secondary access sites included the right brachial artery in all patients and superficial femoral arteries in 50% of the patients. In all cases an "0.014" 300-cm length "safety" wire was delivered to the common femoral artery or descending aorta by way of a secondary access site to facilitate stent graft delivery. Successful device implantation was achieved in all cases. Vascular closure device failure occurred in 2 patients and was treated by stent graft implantation by way of the brachial and superficial femoral arteries, without need for surgical vascular repair. A strategy designed to facilitate percutaneous vascular repair after combined EVAR and TAVR procedures may enable a truly minimally invasive procedure.

Citation: Naoum I, et al. Strategy for Totally Percutaneous Management of Vascular Injury in Combined Transfemoral Transcatheter Aortic Valve Replacement and Endovascular Aortic Aneurysm Repair Procedures. Strategy for Totally Percutaneous Management of Vascular Injury in Combined Transfemoral Transcatheter Aortic Valve Replacement and Endovascular Aortic Aneurysm Repair Procedures. 2023; 207:130-136. doi: 10.1016/j.amjcard.2023.08.148

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37738782/
