PMID: 37730441
Title: Computational modeling of low-density lipoprotein accumulation at the carotid artery bifurcation after stenting.

Abstract: Restenosis typically occurs in regions of low and oscillating wall shear stress, which also favor the accumulation of atherogenic macromolecules such as low-density lipoprotein (LDL). This study aims to evaluate LDL transport and accumulation at the carotid artery bifurcation following carotid artery stenting (CAS) by means of computational simulation. The computational model consists of coupled blood flow and LDL transport, with the latter being modeled as a dilute substance dissolved in the blood and transported by the flow through a convection-diffusion transport equation. The endothelial layer was assumed to be permeable to LDL, and the hydraulic conductivity of LDL was shear-dependent. Anatomically realistic geometric models of the carotid bifurcation were built based on pre- and post-stent computed tomography (CT) scans. The influence of stent design was investigated by virtually deploying two different types of stents (open- and closed-cell stents) into the same carotid bifurcation model. Predicted LDL concentrations were compared between the post-stent carotid models and the relatively normal contralateral model reconstructed from patient-specific CT images. Our results show elevated LDL concentration in the distal section of the stent in all post-stent models, where LDL concentration is 20 times higher than that in the contralateral carotid. Compared with the open-cell stents, the closed-cell stents have larger areas exposed to high LDL concentration, suggesting an increased risk of stent restenosis. This computational approach is readily applicable to multiple patient studies and, once fully validated against follow-up data, it can help elucidate the role of stent strut design in the development of in-stent restenosis after CAS.

Citation: Johari NH, et al. Computational modeling of low-density lipoprotein accumulation at the carotid artery bifurcation after stenting. Computational modeling of low-density lipoprotein accumulation at the carotid artery bifurcation after stenting. 2023; 39:e3772. doi: 10.1002/cnm.3772

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37730441/
