PMID: 37747906
Title: Quantitative Assessment of Retinal and Choroidal Microvasculature in Asymptomatic Patients with Carotid Artery Stenosis.

Abstract: SIGNIFICANCE: Carotid disease contributes to 15 to 20% of all ischemic strokes, one of the leading causes of permanent disabilities and mortality globally. With its growing prevalence and the inflicted disability rates, screening for anomalies that precede the onset of its serious complications is of crucial global significance.
PURPOSE: This study aimed to assess the relationship between retinal and choroidal perfusion changes with the degree of stenosis using quantitative swept-source optical coherence tomography angiography in patients with internal carotid artery stenosis.
METHODS: A retrospective cohort study was conducted in 72 eyes with carotid stenosis. According to the degree of stenosis, the participants were divided into a healthy group (group 1: 34 eyes), a mild-moderate stenosis group (group 2: 22 eyes), and a severe stenosis group (group 3: 16 eyes). Swept-source optical coherence tomography angiography was performed to scan macular fovea. Capillary density values in the different retinal and choroidal layers were the major measurements for our study.
RESULTS: Mean vessel density in the midchoroid layer was significantly higher in groups 2 and 3 compared with group 1. Deep choroid disclosed significantly superior vascular density values in group 3 compared with groups 2 and 1. Superficial and deep capillary plexus showed decreased vascular density values when comparing group 3 with groups 1 and 2, although they were not significant.
CONCLUSIONS: Our report provides the first evidence that choroidal microvascular changes were correlated with severity of carotid artery stenosis. Optical coherence tomography angiography can sensitively detect subtle, early changes in the ocular blood in carotid disease representing a useful, noninvasive, and objective approach to the retinal microvasculature.

Citation: Monferrer-Adsuara C, et al. Quantitative Assessment of Retinal and Choroidal Microvasculature in Asymptomatic Patients with Carotid Artery Stenosis. Quantitative Assessment of Retinal and Choroidal Microvasculature in Asymptomatic Patients with Carotid Artery Stenosis. 2023; 100:770-784. doi: 10.1097/OPX.0000000000002071

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37747906/
