PMID: 37746521
Title: Iatrogenic Thermal Energy-Induced Distal Ureteric Injury and Its Management by Laparoscopy Ureteroureterostomy.

Abstract: BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES: Most thermal energy-induced distal ureter injuries are missed intraoperatively as they are caused by delayed ischemia-induced necrosis of the affected part leading to fistula, and a delayed presentation. The injuries of the distal ureter are commonly managed by ureteroneocystostomy, which has long-term complications related to vesico-ureteric reflux (VUR). We present our experience of management of distal ureter injury due to thermal energy by laparoscopy ureteroureterostomy and the role of various methodologies for its diagnosis.
METHODS: It is a retrospective, single-center study that was conducted from January 1, 2020 - December, 31 2022.
RESULTS: A total of 8 cases were enrolled in the study. All cases had an uterovaginal fistula (UVF) post-laparoscopic gynecology surgery. The bilateral ureteric injury was observed in 2 cases. The median post-surgery time to diagnose UVF in the study was 10 days. All cases were managed by laparoscopy ureteroureterostomy (LUUS). Six cases underwent immediate surgery after the diagnosis; whereas 2 cases had initial double-J stent placement as treatment, which subsequently failed following which the LUUS was performed. There were not any immediate or long-term complications such as leakage, stenosis, fistula, or any requirement for revision surgery.
CONCLUSION: The management of thermal energy-induced ureteric injury is exceptional as compared to other types of ureteric injury. Our approach should be toward immediate surgical management rather than a conservative one to avoid long-term complications and sequelae. Iatrogenic lower ureteral injury can be managed successfully by LUUS, maintaining the normal anatomy and physiology of VUR.

Citation: Limbachiya D, et al. Iatrogenic Thermal Energy-Induced Distal Ureteric Injury and Its Management by Laparoscopy Ureteroureterostomy. Iatrogenic Thermal Energy-Induced Distal Ureteric Injury and Its Management by Laparoscopy Ureteroureterostomy. 2023; 27:(unknown pages). doi: 10.4293/JSLS.2023.00030

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37746521/
