PMID: 37749417
Title: A Retrospective Study on the Reconstruction of Nasal Septal Mucosal Defects after Asian Rhinoplasty.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Nasal septal mucosal defects following rhinoplasty in Asian patients are uncommon complications. However, the reconstruction of such defects presents a challenging task in plastic surgery. The aim of this study was to present comprehensive surgical strategies for the reconstruction of nasal septal mucosal defect after rhinoplasty.
METHODS: Thirteen cases presenting with nasal septal mucosal defects between January 2016 and October 2021 were retrospectively reviewed. The size, location, and severity of the defect as well as the extent of cartilage exposure were taken into consideration during evaluation, and surgical approaches were employed for repair accordingly. Patient satisfaction was evaluated using a questionnaire with visual analog scale (VAS) and nasal obstruction symptom evaluation scale (NOSE).
RESULTS: The average postoperative follow-up period in this study group was 10.15 months. Reconstruction of nasal septal mucosal defects resulted in successful treatment for all patients. There was no evidence of flap failure or nasal valve stenosis. All patients were satisfied with the reconstruction outcome.
CONCLUSIONS: The successful application of surgical techniques for nasal septal mucosal defects after rhinoplasty requires comprehensive consideration. The utilization of the retrograde-flow superior labial artery mucosal flap appears to be a secure, efficient, and effective technique for nasal septal mucosal defect reconstruction in rhinoplasty, particularly in cases with cartilage exposure.
LEVEL OF EVIDENCE IV: This journal requires that authors assign a level of evidence to each article. For a full description of these Evidence-Based Medicine ratings, please refer to the Table of Contents or the online Instructions to Authors www.springer.com/00266 .

Citation: Deng Y, et al. A Retrospective Study on the Reconstruction of Nasal Septal Mucosal Defects after Asian Rhinoplasty. A Retrospective Study on the Reconstruction of Nasal Septal Mucosal Defects after Asian Rhinoplasty. 2024; 48:1321-1330. doi: 10.1007/s00266-023-03655-x

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37749417/
