PMID: 37740174
Title: Musculoskeletal manifestations associated with transthyretin-mediated (ATTR) amyloidosis: a systematic review.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Hereditary and wild-type transthyretin-mediated (ATTRv and ATTRwt) amyloidoses result from the misfolding of transthyretin and aggregation of amyloid plaques in multiple organ systems. Diagnosis of ATTR amyloidosis is often delayed due to its heterogenous and non-specific presentation. This review investigates the association of musculoskeletal (MSK) manifestations with ATTR amyloidosis and the delay from the onset of these manifestations to the diagnosis of ATTR amyloidosis.
METHODS: This systematic review utilized Medline and EMBASE databases. Search criteria were outlined using a pre-specified patient, intervention, comparator, outcome, time, study (PICOTS) criteria and included: amyloidosis, ATTR, and MSK manifestations. Publication quality was assessed utilizing Joanna Briggs Institute (JBI) critical appraisal checklists. The search initially identified 7,139 publications, 164 of which were included. PICOTS criteria led to the inclusion of epidemiology, clinical burden and practice, pathophysiology, and temporality of MSK manifestations associated with ATTR amyloidosis. 163 publications reported on ATTR amyloidosis and MSK manifestations, and 13 publications reported on the delay in ATTR amyloidosis diagnosis following the onset of MSK manifestations.
RESULTS: The MSK manifestation most frequently associated with ATTR amyloidosis was carpal tunnel syndrome (CTS); spinal stenosis (SS) and osteoarthritis (OA), among others, were also identified. The exact prevalence of different MSK manifestations in patients with ATTR amyloidosis remains unclear, as a broad range of prevalence estimates were reported. Moreover, the reported prevalence of MSK manifestations showed no clear trend or distinction in association between ATTRv and ATTRwt amyloidosis. MSK manifestations precede the diagnosis of ATTR amyloidosis by years, and there was substantial variation in the reported delay to ATTR amyloidosis diagnosis. Reports do suggest a longer diagnostic delay in patients with ATTRv amyloidosis, with 2 to 12 years delay in ATTRv versus 1.3 to 1.9 years delay in ATTRwt amyloidosis.
CONCLUSION: These findings suggest that orthopedic surgeons may play a role in the early diagnosis of and treatment referrals for ATTR amyloidosis. Detection of MSK manifestations may enable earlier diagnosis and administration of effective treatments before disease progression occurs.

Citation: Aldinc E, et al. Musculoskeletal manifestations associated with transthyretin-mediated (ATTR) amyloidosis: a systematic review. Musculoskeletal manifestations associated with transthyretin-mediated (ATTR) amyloidosis: a systematic review. 2023; 24:751. doi: 10.1186/s12891-023-06853-5

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37740174/
