PMID: 37750839
Title: Arm-only combined transarterial and transvenous access for neurointerventional procedures: a double-center retrospective study.

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: This study aims to share our experience with the arm-only combined transarterial and transvenous access approach for neurointerventional procedures and evaluate its efficacy and safety.
METHODS: The arm-only combined transarterial and transvenous access approach was performed using the right/bilateral proximal radial arteries and the right forearm superficial vein system, guided by ultrasonic guidance. Arterial access closure was achieved using a transradial band radial compression device, while manual compression was utilized for venous approach closure.
RESULTS: Thirteen procedures were successfully performed using the arm-only combined transarterial and transvenous access approach, yielding favorable outcomes. The procedures included dural arteriovenous fistula embolization (seven cases), cerebral arteriovenous malformation embolization (four cases), venous sinus thrombosis catheter-directed thrombolysis and intravenous thrombectomy (one case), and cerebral venous sinus stenosis manometry (one case). All procedures were uneventful, allowing patients to ambulate on the same day. At discharge, all patients exhibited modified Rankin scores of 0-2, without any access site or perioperative complications.
CONCLUSION: This double-center study preliminarily demonstrates the feasibility and safety of arm-only combined transarterial and transvenous access applied in neurointerventional procedures for complicated cerebrovascular diseases. The proximal radial artery and forearm superficial vein are recommended as the primary access sites. Unobstructed compression is strongly recommended for radial approach closure.
ADVANCES IN KNOWLEDGE: This study aimed to add evidence and experience on the arm-only combined transarterial and transvenous access, as a new approach, for neurointerventional treatment that required arteriovenous approaches.

Citation: Zhu D, et al. Arm-only combined transarterial and transvenous access for neurointerventional procedures: a double-center retrospective study. Arm-only combined transarterial and transvenous access for neurointerventional procedures: a double-center retrospective study. 2023; 96:20230465. doi: 10.1259/bjr.20230465

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37750839/
