PMID: 37750991
Title: Elevated systolic pulmonary artery pressure is a substantial predictor of increased mortality after transcatheter aortic valve replacement in males, not in females.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: While pulmonary hypertension (PH) in patients with severe aortic valve stenosis (AS) is associated with increased mortality after transcatheter aortic valve replacement (TAVR), there is limited data on gender differences in the effects on long-term survival.
OBJECTIVE: The aim of this retrospective, multicenter study was to investigate the prognostic impact of pre-interventional PH on survival of TAVR patients with respect to gender.
METHODS: 303 patients undergoing TAVR underwent echocardiography to detect PH prior to TAVR via measurement of systolic pulmonary artery pressure (sPAP). Different cut-off values were set for the presence of PH. The primary endpoint was all-cause mortality at 1, 3 and 5 years.
RESULTS: Kaplan-Meier analysis by gender showed that only males exhibited significant increased mortality at elevated sPAP values during the entire follow-up period of 5 years (sPAP ≥ 40 mmHg: p ≤ 0.001 and sPAP ≥ 50 mmHg: p ≤ 0.001 in 1- to 5-year survival), whereas high sPAP values had no effect on survival in females. In Cox regression analysis based on the selected sPAP thresholds, male gender was an independent risk factor for long-term mortality after TAVR in all time courses.
CONCLUSION: Male gender was an isolated risk factor for premature death after TAVR in patients with echocardiographic evidence of PH and severe AS. This could mean that, the indication for TAVR should be discussed more critically in men with severe AS and an elevated sPAP, while in females, PH should not be an exclusion criterion for TAVR.

Citation: Boxhammer E, et al. Elevated systolic pulmonary artery pressure is a substantial predictor of increased mortality after transcatheter aortic valve replacement in males, not in females. Elevated systolic pulmonary artery pressure is a substantial predictor of increased mortality after transcatheter aortic valve replacement in males, not in females. 2024; 113:138-155. doi: 10.1007/s00392-023-02307-z

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37750991/
