PMID: 37752519
Title: Hemodynamics combined with inflammatory indicators exploring relationships between ischemic stroke and symptomatic middle cerebral artery atherosclerotic stenosis.

Abstract: BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: Intracranial atherosclerotic stenosis (ICAS) is a major cause of ischemic stroke, and high-resolution vessel wall imaging (HR-VWI) can be used to assess the plaque characteristics of ICAS. This study combined HR-VWI, hemodynamics, and peripheral blood inflammatory indicators to investigate the role of these factors in symptomatic intracranial atherosclerotic stenosis (sICAS) and their inter-relationships.
METHODS: Patients diagnosed with atherosclerotic middle cerebral artery stenosis were recruited retrospectively from June 2018 to July 2022. Plaque enhancement was qualitatively and quantitatively analyzed, and the degree of plaque enhancement was graded according to the plaque-to-pituitary stalk contrast ratio (CR). Computational fluid dynamics models were constructed, and then hemodynamic parameters, including wall shear stress (WSS) and pressure ratio (PR), were measured and recorded. Univariate and multivariable analyses were performed to identify factors that can predict sICAS. In addition, the correlation analysis between the plaque characteristics on HR-VWI, hemodynamic parameters, and peripheral blood inflammatory indicators was performed to investigate the interrelationships between these factors.
RESULTS: Thirty-two patients were included. A higher proportion of plaque enhancement, maximum WSS, and WSS ratio (WSSR) were significantly associated with sICAS. The multiple logistic regression analysis showed that only the WSSR was an independent risk factor for sICAS. The correlation analysis revealed that both the CR and plaque burden showed linear positive correlation with the WSSR (R = 0.411, P = 0.022; R = 0.474, P = 0.007, respectively), and showed linear negative correlation with the lymphocyte to monocyte ratio (R = 0.382, P = 0.031; R = 0.716, P < 0.001, respectively).
CONCLUSIONS: The plaque enhancement and WSSR were significantly associated with sICAS, WSSR was an independent risk factor for sICAS. Plaque enhancement and plaque burden showed linear correlation with the WSSR and lymphocyte-to-monocyte ratio (LMR). Hemodynamics and inflammation combined to promote plaque progression.

Citation: Wu XB, et al. Hemodynamics combined with inflammatory indicators exploring relationships between ischemic stroke and symptomatic middle cerebral artery atherosclerotic stenosis. Hemodynamics combined with inflammatory indicators exploring relationships between ischemic stroke and symptomatic middle cerebral artery atherosclerotic stenosis. 2023; 28:378. doi: 10.1186/s40001-023-01344-8

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37752519/
