PMID: 37762832
Title: The Usefulness of Intracoronary Imaging in Patients with ST-Segment Elevation Myocardial Infarction.

Abstract: Intracoronary imaging (ICI) modalities, namely intravascular ultrasound (IVUS) and optical coherence tomography (OCT), have shown to be able to reduce major adverse cardiovascular events in patients undergoing percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI). Nevertheless, patients with ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction (STEMI) have been practically excluded from contemporary large randomized controlled trials. The available data are limited and derive mostly from observational studies. Nevertheless, contemporary studies are in favor of ICI utilization in patients who undergo primary PCI. Regarding technical aspects of PCI, ICI has been associated with the implantation of larger stent diameters, higher balloon inflations and lower residual in-stent stenosis post-PCI. OCT, although used significantly less often than IVUS, is a useful tool in the context of myocardial infarction without obstructive coronary artery disease since, due to its high spatial resolution, it can identify the underlying mechanism of STEMI, and, thus, guide therapy. Stent thrombosis (ST) is a rare, albeit a potential lethal, complication that is expressed clinically as STEMI in the vast majority of cases. Use of ICI is encouraged with current guidelines in order to discriminate the mechanism of ST among stent malapposition, underexpansion, uncovered stent struts, edge dissections, ruptured neoatherosclerotic lesions and coronary evaginations. Finally, ICI has been proposed as a tool to facilitate stent deferring during primary PCI based on culprit lesion characteristics.

Citation: Karamasis GV, et al. The Usefulness of Intracoronary Imaging in Patients with ST-Segment Elevation Myocardial Infarction. The Usefulness of Intracoronary Imaging in Patients with ST-Segment Elevation Myocardial Infarction. 2023; 12:(unknown pages). doi: 10.3390/jcm12185892

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37762832/
