PMID: 37769621
Title: Novel adaptations in percutaneous right transaxillary access for transcatheter aortic valve implantation using the sapien ultra valve.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Percutaneous transaxillary access is used as an alternative to the transfemoral approach for transcatheter aortic valve implantation in patients with severe peripheral vascular disease. The left transaxillary approach is usually preferred due to ease of valve alignment with the aortic annulus. Some patients have anatomical and physiological factors which preclude this approach. Moreover, most catheterization lab layouts make left-sided approaches to the heart awkward for imaging, visualization, procedural ease, and radiation protection.
AIMS: The authors describe novel adaptations to allow successful right transaxillary access for implantation of the transcatheter heart valve using the Edwards Sapien 3 system (Edwards Lifesciences).
METHODS: We searched our local structural heart database for all patients who underwent transcatheter aortic valve implantation via axillary access, from January 2021 to January 2022. Patients with left axillary access were excluded.
RESULTS: We report 6 percutaneous right transaxillary cases performed in the last year using steps which allow smooth delivery of the SAPIEN 3 Ultra valve down the greater curvature of the aorta and providing co-axial alignment of the valve. Only one patient had a vascular complication with arterial dissection at the closure point managed with 8 mm x 37 mm Bentley uncovered stent at the access site.
CONCLUSION: With the modifications described in our article, the right transaxillary approach has now become our preferred secondary access route for TAVI.

Citation: Waleed M, et al. Novel adaptations in percutaneous right transaxillary access for transcatheter aortic valve implantation using the sapien ultra valve. Novel adaptations in percutaneous right transaxillary access for transcatheter aortic valve implantation using the sapien ultra valve. 2023; 35:E355-E364. doi: 10.25270/jic/23.00075

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37769621/
