PMID: 37760199
Title: Revisional Endoscopic Foraminal Decompression via Modified Interlaminar Approach at L5-S1 after Failed Posterior Instrumented Lumbar Fusion in Elderly Patients.

Abstract: Elderly people usually have poorer surgical tolerance and a higher incidence of complications when undergoing revision surgery after posterior instrumented lumbar fusion (PILF). Full-endoscopic transforaminal surgery is a safe and effective option, but sometimes, it is difficult to revise L5-S1 foraminal stenosis (FS) after PILF. Therefore, we developed full-endoscopic lumbar decompression (FELD) at the arthrodesis level via a modified interlaminar approach under local anesthesia. This study aimed to describe the technical note and clinical efficacy of the technique. Eleven patients with unilateral lower limb radiculopathy after PILF underwent selective nerve root block and then underwent FELD. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and computer tomography (CT) were performed on the second postoperative day. Their clinical outcomes were evaluated with a Visual analog scale (VAS) of low back pain and sciatica pain, Oswestry disability index (ODI), and the MacNab score. Complete decompression was achieved in every case with FELD without serious complications. Postoperative VAS of sciatica pain and ODI at each time point and VAS of low back pain and ODI after three months postoperatively were significantly improved compared with those preoperative (p &lt; 0.05). According to the MacNab criteria, seven patients (63.6%) had excellent results at the two-year follow-up, and four patients (36.4%) had good results. No patients required further revision surgery. FELD, via a modified interlaminar approach, is effective for treating unilateral L5-S1 FS after PILF in elderly people.

Citation: Cao Z, et al. Revisional Endoscopic Foraminal Decompression via Modified Interlaminar Approach at L5-S1 after Failed Posterior Instrumented Lumbar Fusion in Elderly Patients. Revisional Endoscopic Foraminal Decompression via Modified Interlaminar Approach at L5-S1 after Failed Posterior Instrumented Lumbar Fusion in Elderly Patients. 2023; 10:(unknown pages). doi: 10.3390/bioengineering10091097

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37760199/
