PMID: 37762839
Title: Effect of Dapagliflozin on Patients with Rheumatic Heart Disease Mitral Stenosis.

Abstract: (1) Background: Mitral stenosis is the most common rheumatic heart disease (RHD). Inflammation and fibrosis are the primary pathophysiology, resulting in left atrial stress and dysfunction. Dapagliflozin is a new heart failure treatment with anti-inflammation and anti-fibrosis effects from previous studies. However, the specific role of dapagliflozin in RHD mitral stenosis is unknown. This study aims to investigate (i) the effect of dapagliflozin on biomarkers of fibrosis, NT-pro BNP levels and left atrial function; (ii) the relationship between the changes in fibrosis biomarkers with left atrial function and NT-pro BNP levels. (2) Methods: An open-label randomized study was conducted on 33 RHD mitral stenosis patients divided into a dapagliflozin group which received 10 mg dapagliflozin and standard therapy, and a control group which only received standard therapy. All patients were examined for levels of PICP, MMP-1/TIMP-1 ratio, TGF-β1, NT-proBNP, mitral valve mean pressure gradient (MPG), and net atrioventricular compliance (Cn) pre- and post-intervention. (3) Results: This study found a significant increase in PICP and TGF-β1 and a reduction in the MMP-1/TIMP-1 ratio in the dapagliflozin group and the control group (p &lt; 0.05). In the dapagliflozin group, the levels of NT-pro BNP decreased significantly (p = 0.000), with a delta of decreased NT-pro BNP levels also significantly greater in the dapagliflozin group compared to the control (p = 0.034). There was a significant increase in Cn values in the dapagliflozin group (p = 0.017), whereas there was a decrease in the control group (p = 0.379). Delta of changes in Cn values between the dapagliflozin and control groups also showed a significant value (p = 0.049). The decreased MPG values of the mitral valve were found in both the dapagliflozin and control groups, with the decrease in MPG significantly greater in the dapagliflozin group (p = 0.031). There was no significant correlation between changes in the value of fibrosis biomarkers with Cn and NT-pro BNP (p &gt; 0.05). (4) Conclusions: This study implies that the addition of dapagliflozin to standard therapy for RHD mitral stenosis patients provides benefits, as evidenced by an increase in net atrioventricular compliance and decreases in the MPG value of the mitral valve and NT-pro BNP levels (p &lt; 0.05). This improvement was not directly related to changes in fibrosis biomarkers, as these biomarkers showed ongoing fibrosis even with dapagliflozin administration.

Citation: Asrial AA, et al. Effect of Dapagliflozin on Patients with Rheumatic Heart Disease Mitral Stenosis. Effect of Dapagliflozin on Patients with Rheumatic Heart Disease Mitral Stenosis. 2023; 12:(unknown pages). doi: 10.3390/jcm12185898

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37762839/
