PMID: 37761249
Title: How Does Anxiety and Depression Affect the Outcome after Periradicular Infiltration Therapy?-A Retrospective Analysis of Patients Undergoing CT-Guided Single-Level Nerve Root Infiltration Due to Chronic Monoradicular Pain.

Abstract: The aim of this study was to research the influence of psychological confounders on patient-reported outcomes (PROs) after lumbar infiltration therapies of periradicular infiltrations (PRI). Patients who underwent PRI in a single center between June 2018 and December 2019 were included. PRI was performed in patients with predominantly unilateral lumbar radiculopathy which existed for at least 6 weeks based on single-level nerve root compression (caused by a herniated disc, stenosis of the lateral recess, or neuroforamen), confirmed by morphological imaging. The numeric pain rating scale (NRS) for back pain (BP) and leg pain (LP) and the Oswestry Disability Index (ODI) were assessed preinterventionally, on the first day (only NRS) and at 6 weeks, and then 3, 6, and 12 months postinterventionally. The minimally clinically important difference (MCID) served as the threshold for the therapeutic effectiveness evaluation. The health-related quality of life (SF-36) was recorded preinterventionally and after 12 months. Based on the Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale, the patients were dichotomized into depressed or nondepressed and anxious or nonanxious. Categorical data were evaluated using Fisher's exact test, and continuous data were evaluated using Student's t test. Separate linear mixed models were built to estimate the effect of anxiety or depression on repeatedly measured PROs following PRI. Data were analyzed using SPSS software. The analysis included 102 patients. Most mean baseline PROs were significantly worse in anxious or depressed patients than in nonanxious or nondepressed patients: Anxiety NRS-BP (p = 0.007), ODI (p &lt; 0.001); Depression NRS-BP (p = 0.026), NRS-LP (p &lt; 0.001), ODI (p &lt; 0.001). All patients showed a clinically meaningful reduction in pain and functional improvement over a 12-month follow-up. There was no significant difference in the estimated overall mean PRO between all patients (p &gt; 0.05). In conclusion, anxiety and depression are associated with worse PROs before and after PRI. However, patients with underlying depression or anxiety can expect a similar gain in PRO compared to patients without depressive or anxious symptoms.

Citation: Lindemann C, et al. How Does Anxiety and Depression Affect the Outcome after Periradicular Infiltration Therapy?-A Retrospective Analysis of Patients Undergoing CT-Guided Single-Level Nerve Root Infiltration Due to Chronic Monoradicular Pain. How Does Anxiety and Depression Affect the Outcome after Periradicular Infiltration Therapy?-A Retrospective Analysis of Patients Undergoing CT-Guided Single-Level Nerve Root Infiltration Due to Chronic Monoradicular Pain. 2023; 13:(unknown pages). doi: 10.3390/diagnostics13182882

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37761249/
