PMID: 37769569
Title: Hemostatic Profiles of Patients Who Underwent Transcatheter Versus Surgical Aortic Valve Replacement Versus Percutaneous Coronary Intervention.

Abstract: Guidelines for transcatheter aortic valve replacement (TAVR) antithrombotic prophylaxis are extrapolated predominantly from percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) data. Here, we examined temporal coagulation changes occurring in the early perioperative period to determine the pathobiologic validity of this supposition. This was a prospective observational study of consecutive patients who underwent transfemoral TAVR (n = 27), PCI (n = 12), or surgical aortic valve replacement (SAVR) requiring cardiopulmonary bypass and cross-clamping (n = 12). Blood samples were taken at 4 time points: T1 (baseline), after general anesthesia or sedation; T2, after heparin administration; T3, at the end of the procedure; and T4, 6 hours after the procedure. The samples were assessed concurrently using standard laboratory coagulation tests and viscoelastic tests of whole blood clotting, including the latest generation thromboelastometry (ROTEM sigma) and thromboelastometry (TEG 6s). Patients in the TAVR cohort were older and a had lower baseline hemoglobin level than patients in the PCI and SAVR cohorts. The baseline platelet function was similar between the TAVR and PCI cohorts and impaired in the SAVR cohort Figure S1. The baseline hemostatic measures were comparable among cohorts. Regarding the per-patient change from baseline, the TAVR cohort showed an overall more prothrombotic state than the other cohorts, with the most marked differences from the SAVR cohort after intraoperative heparin administration and from the PCI cohorts 6 hours after the procedure. In addition, the ROTEM and TEG parameters were well correlated but not interchangeable. In conclusion, patients who underwent TAVR have a more prothrombotic hemostatic profile than PCI and SAVR patients. These findings question the current guidelines that extrapolate antithrombotic regimens from PCI to TAVR settings.

Citation: Fanning JP, et al. Hemostatic Profiles of Patients Who Underwent Transcatheter Versus Surgical Aortic Valve Replacement Versus Percutaneous Coronary Intervention. Hemostatic Profiles of Patients Who Underwent Transcatheter Versus Surgical Aortic Valve Replacement Versus Percutaneous Coronary Intervention. 2023; 207:260-270. doi: 10.1016/j.amjcard.2023.08.100

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37769569/
