PMID: 37763197
Title: Pulmonary Hypertension in Left Ventricular Valvular Diseases: A Comprehensive Review on Pathophysiology and Prognostic Value.

Abstract: Left ventricular (LV) valvular diseases, make up one of the most common etiologies for pulmonary hypertension (PH), and it is not well understood how and at which degree it affects prognosis. The aim of the present study was a comprehensive review of the pathophysiologic mechanism of PH in patients with LV valvular diseases and the prognostic value of baseline and post-intervention PH in patients undergoing interventional treatment. The pathophysiology of PH in patients with LV valvular diseases involves gradual elevation of left ventricular filling pressure and left atrial pressure, which are passively transmitted to the pulmonary circulation and raise pulmonary artery systolic pressure (PASP). A long-lasting exposure to elevated PASP progressively leads to initially functional and thereafter irreversible structural changes in the pulmonary vasculature, leading up to high pulmonary vascular resistance. Surgical treatment of severe LV valvular diseases is highly effective in patients without resting PH or those with exercise-induced PH (EIPH) before intervention. In the case of pre-operative PH, successful interventional therapy decreases PASP, but the post-operative cardiac and all-cause mortality remain higher compared to patients without pre-operative PH. Hence, it is of paramount importance to detect patients with severe LV valvulopathies before the development of PH, since they will get greater benefits from early intervention.

Citation: Velidakis N, et al. Pulmonary Hypertension in Left Ventricular Valvular Diseases: A Comprehensive Review on Pathophysiology and Prognostic Value. Pulmonary Hypertension in Left Ventricular Valvular Diseases: A Comprehensive Review on Pathophysiology and Prognostic Value. 2023; 13:(unknown pages). doi: 10.3390/life13091793

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37763197/
