PMID: 37761286
Title: The Utility of Low-Dose-Dobutamine Stress Echocardiography in Patients with Heart Failure with Reduced Ejection Fraction: An Update.

Abstract: Despite significant advancements in medical therapy, heart failure with reduced ejection fraction (HFrEF) continues to be a significant cause of death and disability. Reversible ischaemic left ventricular dysfunction due to viable myocardium is one such contributing factor. In these cases, coronary revascularization has shown promise in improving left ventricular function and prognosis. For patients with HFrEF and wide QRS, cardiac resynchronization therapy (CRT) is an effective option to address electromechanical dyssynchrony. However, approximately 30% of patients do not respond positively to CRT, highlighting the need to refine candidate selection for this treatment. In some patients with reduced HFrEF, there is a condition known as classical low-flow, low-gradient aortic stenosis (AS) that may be observed. This condition is characterized by a low transaortic flow, which leads to reductions in both the transaortic mean gradient and aortic valve area. Decision-making regarding revascularization, CRT, and pharmacological treatment play a crucial role in managing HFrEF. Cardiac imaging can be valuable in guiding decision-making processes and assessing the prognosis of patients with HFrEF. Among the imaging modalities, dobutamine stress echocardiography has come a long way in establishing itself as a feasible, safe, effective, relatively cheap non-invasive technique. The aim of this review is to explore the current literature on the utility of low-dose stress echocardiography in diagnosing and prognosticating patients with HFrEF.

Citation: Tsigkriki L, et al. The Utility of Low-Dose-Dobutamine Stress Echocardiography in Patients with Heart Failure with Reduced Ejection Fraction: An Update. The Utility of Low-Dose-Dobutamine Stress Echocardiography in Patients with Heart Failure with Reduced Ejection Fraction: An Update. 2023; 13:(unknown pages). doi: 10.3390/diagnostics13182920

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37761286/
