PMID: 37760104
Title: Evaluating Short-Term and Long-Term Risks Associated with Renal Artery Stenosis Position and Severity: A Hemodynamic Study.

Abstract: Background: Moderate renal artery stenosis (50-70%) may lead to uncontrolled hypertension and eventually cause irreversible damage to renal function. However, the clinical criteria for interventional treatment are still ambiguous in this condition. This study investigated the impact of the position and degree of renal artery stenosis on hemodynamics near the renal artery to assess the short-term and long-term risks associated with this disease. Methods: Calculation models with different degrees of stenosis (50%, 60%, and 70%) located at different positions in the right renal artery were established based on the computed tomography angiography (CTA) of a personalized case. And computational fluid dynamics (CFD) was used to analyze hemodynamic surroundings near the renal artery. Results: As the degree of stenosis increases and the stenosis position is far away from the aorta, there is a decrease in renal perfusion. An analysis of the wall shear stress (WSS)-related parameters indicated areas near the renal artery (downstream of the stenosis and the entrance of the right renal artery) with potential long-term risks of thrombosis and inflammation. Conclusion: The position and degree of stenosis play a significant role in judging short-term risks associated with renal perfusion. Moreover, clinicians should consider not only short-term risks but also independent long-term risk factors, such as certain regions of 50% stenosis with adequate renal perfusion may necessitate prompt intervention.

Citation: Zhao Y, et al. Evaluating Short-Term and Long-Term Risks Associated with Renal Artery Stenosis Position and Severity: A Hemodynamic Study. Evaluating Short-Term and Long-Term Risks Associated with Renal Artery Stenosis Position and Severity: A Hemodynamic Study. 2023; 10:(unknown pages). doi: 10.3390/bioengineering10091002

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37760104/
