PMID: 37776286
Title: Steroid-Eluting Implants: An Adjunctive Therapy After Double-Stage Laryngotracheal Reconstruction.

Abstract: OBJECTIVES: The primary objective is to describe a case in which a steroid-eluting implant was utilized to help prevent postoperative granulation and restenosis in a patient who underwent double-stage laryngotracheal reconstruction (dsLTR) for subglottic stenosis.
METHODS: This case presents a 3-year-old female who underwent dsLTR with anterior cartilage graft placement and posterior sagittal split for subglottic stenosis. A silicone stent was placed at the time of the dsLTR. After stent removal, direct laryngoscopy and bronchoscopy (DLB) was performed at 4 to 5 week intervals. These visits revealed a significant amount of supraglottic and glottic edema, and granulation tissue at the proximal aspect of the graft contributing to airway obstruction and restenosis. This was treated twice with CO<sub>2</sub> laser excision, balloon dilation, and triamcinolone injection. On the third treatment with these modalities, a mometasone furoate implant was inserted as an adjunctive therapy. The implant was inserted to lateralize the vocal folds, prevent webbing, and to extend to the narrowed area within the subglottis to prevent granulation and restenosis. These same treatments were repeated at the fourth visit with another mometasone furoate implant of a smaller size placed in the same location.
RESULTS: Findings on DLB since treatment with the steroid-eluting implants have shown persistent granulation tissue limited to the tracheostomy stoma site. Treatments with CO<sub>2</sub> laser, balloon dilation, and triamcinolone injection have continued, with occasional use of silver nitrate cautery at the external stoma site. There has not been any significant evidence of edema, granulation, or stenosis in the glottis or subglottis to require another steroid-eluting implant.
CONCLUSIONS: Steroid-eluting implants appear to be a safe and effective adjunctive therapy in the routine surveillance of pediatric patients with a tracheostomy who have undergone dsLTR. They may help combat granulation formation and restenosis seen in some dsLTR patients.

Citation: Drury E, et al. Steroid-Eluting Implants: An Adjunctive Therapy After Double-Stage Laryngotracheal Reconstruction. Steroid-Eluting Implants: An Adjunctive Therapy After Double-Stage Laryngotracheal Reconstruction. 2024; 133:244-248. doi: 10.1177/00034894231202067

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37776286/
