PMID: 37771668
Title: Case report: Unveiling the unforeseen: a catastrophic encounter of giant aortic aneurysm rupture during re-sternotomy in a patient with bicuspid aortic valve and previous surgical aortic valve replacement.

Abstract: Due to structural abnormalities in the leaflets, patients with bicuspid aortic valve (BAV) may develop isolated aortic valve disease, such as aortic regurgitation, aortic stenosis, or a combination of both. In addition to valvular pathology, numerous studies have indicated that approximately 40% of BAV patients exhibit aortic pathologies characterized by aortic dilatation. According to guidelines for valvular diseases, patients with BAV who require surgical aortic valve replacement (SAVR) and have a diameter of the aortic sinuses or ascending aorta ≥4.5 cm are recommended to undergo concomitant replacement of the aortic sinuses or ascending aorta. However, we encountered a case in 2020 involving a patient with severe aortic regurgitation due to BAV and an ascending aortic diameter of 4.2 cm. This patient underwent SAVR and ascending aortoplasty surgery at our center. Remarkably, three years postoperatively, the patient's aortic diameter rapidly expanded by nearly threefold, which also suggests the risk of encountering a giant aortic root aneurysm during reoperation. Unfortunately, a fatal rupture of a giant aortic root aneurysm was encountered during re-sternotomy. Fortunately, with adequate preoperative planning, we successfully managed to avert this perilous situation. The patient recovered without complications and was discharged on the 8th day. Individualized surgical plans were formulated based on a comprehensive evaluation of the perioperative conditions.

Citation: Niu H, et al. Case report: Unveiling the unforeseen: a catastrophic encounter of giant aortic aneurysm rupture during re-sternotomy in a patient with bicuspid aortic valve and previous surgical aortic valve replacement. Case report: Unveiling the unforeseen: a catastrophic encounter of giant aortic aneurysm rupture during re-sternotomy in a patient with bicuspid aortic valve and previous surgical aortic valve replacement. 2023; 10:1263897. doi: 10.3389/fcvm.2023.1263897

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37771668/
