PMID: 37776582
Title: Association of culprit plaque enhancement ratio, hypoperfusion and HbA1c with recurrent ischemic stroke in patients with atherosclerotic stenosis of the middle cerebral artery.

Abstract: PURPOSE: To investigate the differences in intracranial culprit plaque characteristics of the middle cerebral artery (MCA), collateral circulation and hypoperfusion in patients with and without recurrent ischemic stroke and to identify the association with the recurrent ischemic cerebrovascular events.
METHOD: Eighty-six patients with acute/subacute ischemic stroke caused by atherosclerotic plaques of the MCA were retrospectively enrolled and grouped into patients with recurrence (n = 36) and without recurrence (n = 50). All patients underwent high-resolution vessel wall imaging and dynamic susceptibility contrast-enhanced perfusion weighted imaging. The differences in culprit plaque characteristics, collateral circulation and hypoperfusion in the territory of the stenotic MCA were assessed between the two groups. The relationship between plaque characteristics and hypoperfusion was evaluated. The independent factors of recurrent ischemic stroke were identified by logistic regression analyses.
RESULTS: Higher HbA1c, culprit plaque enhancement grade, culprit plaque enhancement ratio, and lower time to peak map based on the Alberta Stroke Program Early CT score (TTP-ASPECTS) were observed in the recurrence group(all p < 0.050). Both plaque enhancement grade and enhancement ratio were significantly associated with TTP-ASPECTS (p = 0.030 and 0.039, respectively). HbA1c, culprit plaque enhancement ratio and TTP-ASPECTS were independent factors of the recurrence of ischemic stroke (all p < 0.050). The area under the curve of the combination including the above factors (AUC = 0.819) was significantly higher than that of any variable alone after adjustment (all p < 0.050).
CONCLUSIONS: Culprit plaque enhancement ratio, TTP-ASPECTS and HbA1c were independent factors of recurrent ischemic stroke. Their combination improved the accuracy in identifying the risk of recurrent ischemic stroke.

Citation: Yu JW, et al. Association of culprit plaque enhancement ratio, hypoperfusion and HbA1c with recurrent ischemic stroke in patients with atherosclerotic stenosis of the middle cerebral artery. Association of culprit plaque enhancement ratio, hypoperfusion and HbA1c with recurrent ischemic stroke in patients with atherosclerotic stenosis of the middle cerebral artery. 2023; 168:111107. doi: 10.1016/j.ejrad.2023.111107

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37776582/
