PMID: 37779683
Title: Our Clinical Experience With Patients Requiring Intensive Care for Tracheal Stenosis: A Retrospective Case-Control Study.

Abstract: Background and objective The clinical course in patients with tracheal stenosis (TS) ranges from being asymptomatic to respiratory failure requiring follow-up in the ICU. In this study, we aimed to assess the clinical characteristics, management, and outcome of TS patients who were admitted to the ICU. Materials and methods The data of patients hospitalized in the ICU due to TS between January 01, 2015, and January 01, 2016, were analyzed. The patients were classified into two groups: the post-intubation tracheal stenosis (PITS) group and the post-tracheostomy tracheal stenosis (PTTS) group. Demographic characteristics, body mass index (BMI), the Acute Physiology and Chronic Health Evaluation II (APACHE II) score and the Sequential Organ Failure Assessment (SOFA) score of patients, factors that caused TS, management of TS, and ICU data of patients were compared. The outcome measures of our study were the ICU management of patients diagnosed with PITS or PTTS, their clinical characteristics, and differences in the treatment between patients diagnosed with PITS and those with PTTS in the ICU. Results Fifteen (75%) patients had PITS and five (25%) had PTTS. While BMI was significantly lower in patients in the PTTS group, the APACHE II and SOFA scores were significantly higher in PTTS patients (p<0.05). In most of the patients in the PITS group, the location of the stenosis was subglottic and at the 1/3 upper part of the trachea, while in the PTTS group, it was located only at the upper 1/3 of the trachea (p>0.05). Mechanical dilatation was performed in all patients in both groups. Mechanical dilatation and cryotherapy were performed in 10 (66.7%) patients in the PITS group (p>0.05), and a stent was applied in addition to this treatment in three (20%) patients in the PITS group and four (80%) patients in the PTTS group (p<0.05). Mechanical ventilation was not needed in 10 (66.7%) PITS patients and three (60.0%) PTTS patients after the interventional procedure. All patients were eventually discharged from the ICU after treatment. Conclusion While higher BMI was common in PITS patients, the PTTS patients were generally in worse condition. In this patient group, interventional pulmonology procedures in the ICU can be life-saving.

Citation: Parpucu UM and Aydemir S. Our Clinical Experience With Patients Requiring Intensive Care for Tracheal Stenosis: A Retrospective Case-Control Study. Our Clinical Experience With Patients Requiring Intensive Care for Tracheal Stenosis: A Retrospective Case-Control Study. 2023; 15:e45978. doi: 10.7759/cureus.45978

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37779683/
