PMID: 37770193
Title: Biportal Endoscopic Approach for Lumbar Degenerative Disease in the Ambulatory Outpatient vs Inpatient Setting: A Comparative Study.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Biportal spinal endoscopy is increasingly utilized for lumbar disc herniations and lumbar stenosis. The objective was to investigate the safety and effectiveness of the technique in the outpatient vs inpatient setting.
METHODS: This is a comparative study of consecutive patients who underwent biportal spinal endoscopy by a single surgeon at a single institution. Demographics, surgical complications, and patient-reported outcomes were prospectively collected and retrospectively analyzed. Statistics were calculated among treatment groups using unpaired t test and χ 2 analysis where appropriate. Statistical significance was determined as P &lt; 0.05.
RESULTS: Eighty-four patients were included, 58 (69.0%) as outpatient, 26 (31.0%) as inpatient. Mean follow-up was 7.5 months. Statistically significant differences in age, American Society of Anesthesiologists classification, and Charleston Comorbidity Index scores were reported between cohorts, with younger and healthier patients undergoing outpatient surgery (P &lt; 0.0001). Outpatients were more likely to have discectomies while inpatients were more likely to have decompressions for stenosis. No significant differences in postoperative complications were found between groups.Both cohorts demonstrated significant improvement in visual analog scale (VAS) back and leg pain scores and Oswestry Disability Index scores (P &lt; 0.001). Outpatients had significantly lower postoperative VAS back pain (P = 0.001) and Oswestry Disability Index scores (P = 0.004) at 5-8 weeks compared with inpatients, but there was no significant difference for VAS leg pain scores at all time points between the cohorts.
CONCLUSIONS: Early results demonstrate that biportal spinal endoscopy can safely and effectively be performed in both inpatient and outpatient settings.
CLINICAL RELEVANCE: Outpatient biportal spinal endoscopy can be performed successfully in well selected patients, which may reduce the financial burden of spine surgery to the U.S. healthcare system.

Citation: Park DY, et al. Biportal Endoscopic Approach for Lumbar Degenerative Disease in the Ambulatory Outpatient vs Inpatient Setting: A Comparative Study. Biportal Endoscopic Approach for Lumbar Degenerative Disease in the Ambulatory Outpatient vs Inpatient Setting: A Comparative Study. 2023; 17:858-865. doi: 10.14444/8545

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37770193/
