PMID: 37773306
Title: The Sasaki-W anastomosis for recurrent Crohn's disease stenosis after the Kono-S anastomosis.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Postoperative recurrence is frequently encountered in the management of patients with Crohn's disease and is most often found at the anastomotic site. A novel technique, the Sasaki-W anastomosis, is an antimesenteric cutback end-to-end isoperistaltic anastomosis. We report a patient with Crohn's disease who underwent partial intestinal resection for postoperative anastomotic stenosis, reconstructed with the Sasaki-W anastomosis, after initial intestinal resection reconstructed with a Kono-S anastomosis.
CASE PRESENTATION: A 30-year-old male was diagnosed with Crohn's disease and treated with mesalamine and adalimumab, and he underwent ileocecal resection using the Kono-S anastomosis at the time of diagnosis. He was treated with infliximab without any symptoms or recurrence for 7 years. He was admitted presenting with upper abdominal pain. Physical examination showed mild tenderness and distension in the upper abdomen. Laboratory data showed no remarkable findings. Computed tomography scan showed wall thickening in the ileum with proximal dilation and fluid retention. Non-operative management with antibiotics and fasting did not improve the symptoms within 7 days. Ten days after admission, ileocecal resection reconstructed with the Sasaki-W anastomosis was performed. At operation, there was a 15-cm intestinal stenosis at the site of the previous Kono-S anastomosis. The transverse colon and ileum were reconstructed with the Sasaki-W anastomosis. The postoperative course was uneventful, and the patient was discharged 17 days postoperatively. The patient had no obstructive symptoms and no findings consistent with bowel obstruction were observed on computed tomography scan one year postoperatively.
CONCLUSIONS: The Sasaki-W anastomosis is a viable option for intestinal reconstruction in patients with postoperative recurrence after a Kono-S anastomosis.

Citation: Asai T, et al. The Sasaki-W anastomosis for recurrent Crohn's disease stenosis after the Kono-S anastomosis. The Sasaki-W anastomosis for recurrent Crohn's disease stenosis after the Kono-S anastomosis. 2023; 9:172. doi: 10.1186/s40792-023-01747-z

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37773306/
