PMID: 37787883
Title: The Role of Endoscopy in the Management of Adolescent Bariatric Patients: A Primer For Pediatric Gastroenterologists.

Abstract: PURPOSE OF REVIEW: The prevalence of childhood and adolescent obesity in the United States has reached alarming levels, necessitating effective interventions such as bariatric surgery. This article reviews the current state of bariatric surgery in the adolescent population, highlighting the common complications encountered in post-bariatric patients. Furthermore, it outlines the pivotal role of endoscopy in both the prevention and management of these bariatric complications.
RECENT FINDINGS: Though only a minority of eligible adolescent patients undergo bariatric surgery the number of cases continues to increase. Sleeve gastrectomy has emerged as the preferred type of surgery, with the best balance of safety and efficacy. However, only a small number of pediatric surgeons have additional bariatric training and a number of technical aspects of the surgery itself impact the risk for post-surgical complications. Gastric sleeve stenosis, anastomotic leaks and gastroesophageal reflux are the most common of these complications. Ability to perform dilation of sleeve stenosis, closure of anastomotic leaks and evaluation of reflux are critical tools in the endoscopic toolbox necessary for the management of these complicated patients. Bariatric surgery remains the most effective treatment available for management of morbid obesity in adolescents but has significant associated complications. Pediatric gastroenterologists must be familiar in the endoscopic management of these complications and are crucial in creating a high functioning adolescent bariatric program.

Citation: Kramer RE. The Role of Endoscopy in the Management of Adolescent Bariatric Patients: A Primer For Pediatric Gastroenterologists. The Role of Endoscopy in the Management of Adolescent Bariatric Patients: A Primer For Pediatric Gastroenterologists. 2023; 25:299-307. doi: 10.1007/s11894-023-00894-5

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37787883/
