PMID: 37782098
Title: Surgical Porcine Model of Chronic Myocardial Ischemia Treated by Exosome-laden Collagen Patch and Off-pump Coronary Artery Bypass Graft.

Abstract: Chronic myocardial ischemia resulting from progressive coronary artery stenosis leads to hibernating myocardium (HIB), defined as myocardium that adapts to reduced oxygen availability by reducing metabolic activity, thereby preventing irreversible cardiomyocyte injury and infarction. This is distinct from myocardial infarction, as HIB has the potential for recovery with revascularization. Patients with significant coronary artery disease (CAD) experience chronic ischemia, which puts them at risk for heart failure and sudden death. The standard surgical intervention for severe CAD is coronary artery bypass graft surgery (CABG), but it has been shown to be an imperfect therapy, yet no adjunctive therapies exist to recover myocytes adapted to chronic ischemia. To address this gap, a surgical model of HIB using porcine that is amenable to CABG and mimics the clinical scenario was used. The model involves two surgeries. The first operation involves implanting a 1.5 mm rigid constrictor on the left anterior descending (LAD) artery. As the animal grows, the constrictor gradually causes significant stenosis resulting in reduced regional systolic function. Once the stenosis reaches 80%, the myocardial flow and function are impaired, creating HIB. An off-pump CABG is then performed with the left internal mammary artery (LIMA) to revascularize the ischemic region. The animal recovers for one month to allow for optimal myocardial improvement prior to sacrifice. This allows for physiologic and tissue studies of different treatment groups. This animal model demonstrates that cardiac function remains impaired despite CABG, suggesting the need for novel adjunctive interventions. In this study, a collagen patch embedded with mesenchymal stem cell (MSC)-derived exosomes was developed, which can be surgically applied to the epicardial surface distal to LIMA anastomosis. The material conforms to the epicardium, is absorbable, and provides the scaffold for the sustained release of signaling factors. This regenerative therapy can stimulate myocardial recovery that does not respond to revascularization alone. This model translates to the clinical arena by providing means of physiological and mechanistic explorations regarding recovery in HIB.

Citation: Aggarwal R, et al. Surgical Porcine Model of Chronic Myocardial Ischemia Treated by Exosome-laden Collagen Patch and Off-pump Coronary Artery Bypass Graft. Surgical Porcine Model of Chronic Myocardial Ischemia Treated by Exosome-laden Collagen Patch and Off-pump Coronary Artery Bypass Graft. 2023; (unknown volume):(unknown pages). doi: 10.3791/65553

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37782098/
