PMID: 37788967
Title: Prognostic value of plaque volume combined with CT fractional flow reserve in patients with suspected coronary artery disease.

Abstract: AIM: To investigate the prognostic value of quantitative plaque volume on coronary computed tomography (CT) angiography (CTA) combined with CT fractional flow reserve (CT-FFR) for major adverse cardiac events (MACE) in suspected coronary artery disease (CAD) patients.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Patients who underwent coronary CTA with clinically suspected CAD were enrolled retrospectively in this study. Patients' baseline, Framingham Risk Score (FRS), coronary CTA plaque assessment, and CT-FFR were analysed retrospectively. Study outcomes included rehospitalisation and MACE (ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction, unstable angina, or non-ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction, revascularisation, and cardiac death).
RESULTS: There were 251 patients in the study, with a follow-up period of 1-6.58 years. Mean age was 61.16 ± 10.45 years and 146 (58%) patients were male. Higher CT-adapted Leaman score and quantitative plaque volume were found in patients with FRS >0.2 regardless of categorical or continuous variables. Coronary scores, quantitative plaque parameters, and CT-FFR were associated with MACE and rehospitalisation in univariate analysis. In model 1, CT-FFR was associated with MACE in multivariate Cox analysis when adjusted for FRS and CT-adapted Leaman score. Quantitative plaque parameters including calcified plaque volume, fibro-fatty plaque volume, low-attenuation plaque volume, non-calcified plaque volume, and total plaque volume were significantly associated with MACE and improved overall prognostic performance in a model adjusted for CT-FFR.
CONCLUSION: Additional quantitative plaque volume and CT-FFR further improve the predictive incremental value based on risk factor scores for prognostic prediction in patients. Adding quantitative plaque volume combined with CT-FFR analysis to anatomical and clinical assessment will be further beneficial to predict patients' prognosis of MACE.

Citation: Huang W, et al. Prognostic value of plaque volume combined with CT fractional flow reserve in patients with suspected coronary artery disease. Prognostic value of plaque volume combined with CT fractional flow reserve in patients with suspected coronary artery disease. 2023; 78:e1048-e1056. doi: 10.1016/j.crad.2023.08.024

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37788967/
