PMID: 37797789
Title: Adolescent and Young Adult Patients with Vaginal Graft-vs-Host Disease and Hematocolpos Managed with Vaginal Stents: A Case Series.

Abstract: STUDY OBJECTIVE: Vaginal stenosis can be acquired as a result of vaginal graft-vs-host disease (GVHD) in patients who have undergone hematopoietic stem cell transplant (HSCT). Little data exist to guide the management of vaginal GVHD, particularly in adolescent and young adult patients. The objective of this study was to detail the management of vaginal stenosis with lysis of adhesions and vaginal stent placement in 3 young patients with vaginal GVHD.
METHODS: A retrospective chart review was done for 3 patients with vaginal GVHD causing vaginal stenosis with hematometrocolpos. All 3 were treated using vaginal stent placement. Additionally, a literature review was conducted through PubMed and Google Scholar to identify 21 case reports (with a total of 35 patients) of menstrual obstruction due to GVHD.
RESULTS: Obstructive vaginal stenosis secondary to vaginal GVHD occurred in our patients at ages 15, 16, and 24 years. Resolution of hematocolpos was obtained with lysis of vaginal adhesions with vaginal stent placement in all patients, with varying regimens of systemic and topical hormones, topical corticosteroids, and dilator therapy.
DISCUSSION: Vaginal stenosis secondary to vaginal GVHD should be considered in patients with a history of allogeneic HSCT presenting with amenorrhea, especially those with a diagnosis of primary ovarian insufficiency. The use of vaginal stents, along with postoperative medical and dilator management as appropriate, may prevent re-stenosis, although more information is needed regarding the efficacy of treatments.

Citation: Hollond CS, et al. Adolescent and Young Adult Patients with Vaginal Graft-vs-Host Disease and Hematocolpos Managed with Vaginal Stents: A Case Series. Adolescent and Young Adult Patients with Vaginal Graft-vs-Host Disease and Hematocolpos Managed with Vaginal Stents: A Case Series. 2024; 37:78-86. doi: 10.1016/j.jpag.2023.09.011

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37797789/
