PMID: 37797718
Title: Nonsense mediated decay factor UPF3B is associated with cMyBP-C haploinsufficiency in hypertrophic cardiomyopathy patients.

Abstract: Hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (HCM) is the most prevalent inherited cardiac disease. Up to 40% of cases are associated with heterozygous mutations in myosin binding protein C (cMyBP-C, MYBPC3). Most of these mutations lead to premature termination codons (PTC) and patients show reduction of functional cMyBP-C. This so-called haploinsufficiency most likely contributes to disease development. We analyzed mechanisms underlying haploinsufficiency using cardiac tissue from HCM-patients with truncation mutations in MYBPC3 (MYBPC3<sub>trunc</sub>). We compared transcriptional activity, mRNA and protein expression to donor controls. To differentiate between HCM-specific and general hypertrophy-induced mechanisms we used patients with left ventricular hypertrophy due to aortic stenosis (AS) as an additional control. We show that cMyBP-C haploinsufficiency starts at the mRNA level, despite hypertrophy-induced increased transcriptional activity. Gene set enrichment analysis (GSEA) of RNA-sequencing data revealed an increased expression of NMD-components. Among them, Up-frameshift protein UPF3B, a regulator of NMD was upregulated in MYBPC3<sub>trunc</sub> patients and not in AS-patients. Strikingly, we show that in sarcomeres UPF3B but not UPF1 and UPF2 are localized to the Z-discs, the presumed location of sarcomeric protein translation. Our data suggest that cMyBP-C haploinsufficiency in HCM-patients is established by UPF3B-dependent NMD during the initial translation round at the Z-disc.

Citation: Burkart V, et al. Nonsense mediated decay factor UPF3B is associated with cMyBP-C haploinsufficiency in hypertrophic cardiomyopathy patients. Nonsense mediated decay factor UPF3B is associated with cMyBP-C haploinsufficiency in hypertrophic cardiomyopathy patients. 2023; 185:26-37. doi: 10.1016/j.yjmcc.2023.09.008

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37797718/
