PMID: 37793562
Title: Platelet and endothelial cell responses under concurrent shear stress and tensile strain.

Abstract: Thrombosis can lead to significant mortality and morbidity. Both platelets and vascular endothelial cells play significant roles in thrombosis. Platelets' response to blood flow-induced shear stress can vary greatly depending on shear stress magnitude, pattern and shear exposure time. Endothelial cells are also sensitive to the biomechanical environment. Endothelial cell activation and dysfunction can occur under low oscillatory shear stress and low tensile strain. Platelet and endothelial cell interaction can also be affected by mechanical conditions. The goal of this study was to investigate how blood flow-induced shear stress, vascular wall tensile strain, platelet-endothelial cell stress history, and platelet-endothelial cell interaction affect platelet thrombogenicity. Platelets and human coronary artery endothelial cells were pretreated with physiological and pathological shear stress and/or tensile strain separately. The pretreated cells were then put together and exposed to pulsatile shear stress and cyclic tensile strain simultaneously in a shearing-stretching device. Following treatment, platelet thrombin generation rate, platelet and endothelial cell activation, and platelet adhesion to endothelial cells was measured. The results demonstrated that shear stress pretreatment of endothelial cells and platelets caused a significant increase in platelet thrombin generation rate, cell surface phosphatidylserine expression, and adhesion to endothelial cells. Shear stress pretreatment of platelets and endothelial cells attenuated endothelial cell ICAM-1 expression under stenosis conditions, as well as vWF expression under recirculation conditions. These results indicate that platelets are sensitized by prior shearing, while in comparison, the interaction with shear stress-pretreated platelets may reduce endothelial cell sensitivity to pathological shear stress and tensile strain.

Citation: Steadman E, et al. Platelet and endothelial cell responses under concurrent shear stress and tensile strain. Platelet and endothelial cell responses under concurrent shear stress and tensile strain. 2024; 151:104613. doi: 10.1016/j.mvr.2023.104613

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37793562/
