PMID: 37790002
Title: Intraoperative Coronary Spasm: A Potential Case of Vasospastic Angina.

Abstract: Prinzmetal's angina typically features spasms of the coronary arteries due to the hyperreactivity of the vascular smooth muscle cells of the vessels to a nonspecific stimulus. Reports of coronary spasm during general anesthesia are rare, but in such cases, diagnosis is suggested by a framework of angina at rest and changes in the electrocardiogram (ECG) or coronary reactivity tests with ergonovine or acetylcholine. The present study describes a case of coronary spasm induced by general anesthesia associated with several cardiovascular risk factors and the usage of vasoactive drugs that was documented by angiography without using stimulating drugs and treated with intracoronary nitroglycerin. The patient was a 58-year-old male who was designated for carotid endarterectomy due to the stenosis (70%) of the right internal carotid artery by an atheromatous plaque after visiting the emergency department with a sensorimotor deficit in the left upper limb and bifrontal headaches with sudden onset. During the surgical intervention, after the administration of 10 mg of intravenous ephedrine, cardiorespiratory arrest occurred, with alternation between defibrillable and non-defibrillable heart paces. After the recovery of spontaneous circulation after 50 minutes of resuscitation maneuvers, the patient was transported to the hemodynamics laboratory, where there were recurrent episodes of ventricular fibrillation during the angioplasty of the anterior descending artery. After direct stent implantation, pre- and post-stent spasms were verified and reversed after the administration of intracardiac nitroglycerin. The spasm was a possible complication of anesthesia and responded to treatment with nitrates and calcium channel blockers. We would like to emphasize the importance of cardiac monitoring during surgery and anesthesia.

Citation: Camões Correia P, et al. Intraoperative Coronary Spasm: A Potential Case of Vasospastic Angina. Intraoperative Coronary Spasm: A Potential Case of Vasospastic Angina. 2023; 15:e44561. doi: 10.7759/cureus.44561

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37790002/
