PMID: 37800248
Title: Application of SF-36 Health Status Survey in Patients with Arterial Hypertension.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: To estimate quality of life (QOL) in patients with arterial hypertension (AH) using SF-36 Health Status Survey.
SUBJECTS AND METHODS: We included 268 patients (144 men, 124 women) with grade 1-3 AH (subgroup 1 - with coronary stenosis less than 50% (n=158), subgroup 2 - with coronary artery stenosis of 50% or more (n=110)). In the control group - 80 people (47 men, 33 women) without AH. Laboratory and instrumental methods included total cholesterol, low-density lipoprotein cholesterol, triglycerides, glucose, creatinine, electrocardiography, echocardiography, Doppler ultrasound of brachiocephalic arteries, stress echocardiography with physical exercises and coronary angiography. For QOL evaluation we used SF-36 Health Status Survey.
RESULTS: According to the results of the SF-36 Health Status Survey, when assessing physical (PH) and mental (MH) among the groups, there was a significant decrease in summary points in patients of subgroup 2, in whom, according to coronary angiography, it was revealed stenosis of the carotid arteries 50% and more. Anxiety and depression predominated in men. Patients with corrected cholesterol and LDL-cholesterol levels, as well as after coronary angioplasty, were assessed for QOL with limited physical activity, but with high social functioning.
CONCLUSIONS: AH, especially with hemodynamically significant atherosclerosis of the coronary arteries are the predictors for QOL worsening in cardiological patients, mostly in men. Using of the international questionnaire "SF-36 Health Status Survey" is advisable to assess the QOL in patients with cardiovascular diseases. In this sense, the interaction of a cardiologist and a psychotherapist is appropriate and justified for the most optimal management of a patient with this pathology.

Citation: Germanova OA, et al. Application of SF-36 Health Status Survey in Patients with Arterial Hypertension. Application of SF-36 Health Status Survey in Patients with Arterial Hypertension. 2023; 35:318-321.

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37800248/
