PMID: 37804518
Title: Autologous Airway Basal Cell Transplantation Alleviates Airway Epithelium Defect in Recurrent Benign Tracheal Stenosis.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Airway epithelium defects are a hallmark of recurrent benign tracheal stenosis (RBTS). Reconstructing an intact airway epithelium is of great importance in airway homeostasis and epithelial wound healing and has great potential for treating tracheal stenosis.
METHODS: An experimental study was conducted in canines to explore the therapeutic effect of autologous basal cell transplantation in restoring airway homeostasis. First, airway mucosae from human patients with recurrent tracheal stenosis were analyzed by single-cell RNA sequencing. Canines were then randomly divided into tracheal stenosis, Stent, Stent + Cells, and Stent + Cells + Biogel groups. Autologous airway basal cells of canines in the Stent + Cells and Stent + Cells + Biogel groups were transplanted onto the stenotic airway after modeling. A biogel was coated on the airway prior to basal cell transplantation in the Stent + Cells + Biogel group. After bronchoscopic treatments, canines were followed up for 16 weeks.
RESULTS: Single-cell RNA sequencing demonstrated packed airway basal cells and an absence of normal airway epithelial cells in patients with RBTS. Autologous airway basal cell transplantation, together with biogel coating, was successfully performed in the canine model. Follow-up observation indicated that survival time in the Stent + Cells + Biogel group was significantly prolonged, with a higher (100%) survival rate compared with the other groups. In terms of pathological and bronchoscopic findings, canines that received autologous basal cell transplantation showed a reduction in granulation hyperplasia as well as airway re-epithelialization with functionally mature epithelial cells.
CONCLUSIONS: Autologous airway basal cell transplantation might serve as a novel regenerative therapy for airway re-epithelialization and inhibit recurrent granulation hyperplasia in benign tracheal stenosis.

Citation: Ye YS, et al. Autologous Airway Basal Cell Transplantation Alleviates Airway Epithelium Defect in Recurrent Benign Tracheal Stenosis. Autologous Airway Basal Cell Transplantation Alleviates Airway Epithelium Defect in Recurrent Benign Tracheal Stenosis. 2023; 12:838-848. doi: 10.1093/stcltm/szad062

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37804518/
