PMID: 37802299
Title: Impact of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease on right ventricular function and remodeling after aortic valve replacement.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Both chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) and right ventricular (RV) dysfunction are common factors that have been associated with poor prognosis after aortic valve replacement (AVR). Since there is still uncertainty about the impact of COPD on RV function and dilatation in patients undergoing AVR, we sought to explore RV function and remodeling in the presence and absence of COPD as well as their prognostic implications.
METHODS: Patients who received surgical or transcatheter AVR due to severe AS were screened for COPD. Demographic and clinical data were collected at baseline while echocardiographic measurements were performed at baseline and 1 year after AVR. The study end-point was all-cause mortality.
RESULTS: In total 275 patients were included, with 90 (33%) patients having COPD. At 1-year follow-up, mild worsening of tricuspid annular planar systolic excursion and RV dilatation were observed in patients without COPD, while there were significant improvements in RV longitudinal strain, RV wall thickness but dilatation of RV outflow tract distal dimension in the COPD group compared to the baseline. On multivariable analysis, the presence of COPD provided significant incremental prognostic value over RV dysfunction and remodeling.
CONCLUSIONS: At 1-year after AVR, RV function and dimensions mildly deteriorated in non-COPD group whereas COPD group received significant benefit of AVR in terms of RV function and hypertrophy. COPD was independently associated with >2-fold all-cause mortality and had incremental prognostic value over RV dysfunction and remodeling.

Citation: Myagmardorj R, et al. Impact of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease on right ventricular function and remodeling after aortic valve replacement. Impact of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease on right ventricular function and remodeling after aortic valve replacement. 2024; 395:131414. doi: 10.1016/j.ijcard.2023.131414

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37802299/
