PMID: 37802197
Title: Reinforcement of colon anastomosis healing with leukocyte platelet-rich fibrin in rabbit model.

Abstract: AIM: This study investigated the regenerative efficacy of leukocyte platelet-rich fibrin (L-PRF) on colon anastomotic healing in rabbits.
MAIN METHODS: Thirty-six healthy male white New Zealand rabbits were subjected to complete transactions of the ascending colon. The rabbits were equally divided into two groups: the control group, where the transected colon ends were anastomosed by a simple interrupted suture pattern, and the L-PRF-treated group, in which L-PRF was wrapped entirely around the anastomotic line. The postoperative acute pain scale was assessed using the Bristol Rabbit Pain Scale before surgery and at each four-hour interval post-operatively. After euthanizing the rabbits, the adhesion degree score, anastomotic bursting pressure, and stenosis degree of the anastomotic colon were assessed, and histopathological examination at the 7th, 14th, and 28th days postoperatively.
KEY FINDINGS: Rabbits in both groups showed a significant increase in pain scores compared to baseline. Postoperatively, the L-PRF group exhibited significantly lower pain scores, adhesion scores, and stenosis degrees than the control group. However, the anastomotic bursting pressure was significantly higher in the L-PRF group. Re-epithelialization, polymorphonuclear neutrophil infiltration, granulation tissue formation, and collagen deposition scores were improved considerably in the L-PRF group compared to the control group. Immunostaining of growth factor expression was significantly lower in the control than in the L-PRF group.
SIGNIFICANCE: The L-PRF can augment collagen deposition, re-epithelialize the mucosa, promote angiogenesis, reduce adhesions, and diminish the stenosis degree scores. Therefore, it can be considered a promising aid in healing bowel anastomoses.

Citation: Albahrawy M, et al. Reinforcement of colon anastomosis healing with leukocyte platelet-rich fibrin in rabbit model. Reinforcement of colon anastomosis healing with leukocyte platelet-rich fibrin in rabbit model. 2023; 333:122146. doi: 10.1016/j.lfs.2023.122146

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37802197/
