PMID: 37808028
Title: Histopathology of resected tissue from repair of anomalous aortic origin of a coronary artery: Potential mechanism of coronary artery compression.

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: This study aimed to describe the histomorphologic characteristics of resected (unroofed) common wall tissue from repair of anomalous aortic origin of a coronary artery and to determine whether the histologic features correlate with clinical and imaging findings.
METHODS: The histology of resected tissue was analyzed and reviewed for the presence of fibrointimal hyperplasia, smooth muscle disarray, mucoid extracellular matrix accumulation, mural fibrosis, and elastic fiber disorganization and fragmentation using hematoxylin and eosin and special stains. Clinical, computed tomography imaging, and surgical data were correlated with the histopathologic findings.
RESULTS: Twenty specimens from 20 patients (age range, 7-18 years; 14 males) were analyzed. Anomalous aortic origin of a coronary artery involved the right coronary in 16 (80%), and a slit-like ostium was noted in 18 (90%). By computed tomography imaging, the median proximal coronary artery eccentricity index was 0.4 (range, 0.20-0.90). The median length of intramural course was 8.2 mm (range, 2.6-15.2 mm). The anomalous vessel was determined to be interarterial in 14 patients (93%, 15 had evaluable images). The median distance from a commissure was 2.5 mm above the sinotubular junction (STJ) (range: 2 mm below the STJ-14 mm above the STJ). Prominent histopathologic findings included elastic fiber alterations, mural fibrosis, and smooth muscle disarray. The shared wall of the aorta and intramural coronary artery is more similar to the aorta histologically. Mural fibrosis and elastic fiber abnormalities tended to be more severe in patients >10 years of age at the time of surgery, but this did not reach statistical significance. The extent of vascular changes did not appear to have a clear relationship with the imaging features.
CONCLUSIONS: The findings confirm the aortic wall-like quality of the intramural segment of the coronary artery and the presence of pathologic alterations in the wall microstructure.

Citation: Carreon CK, et al. Histopathology of resected tissue from repair of anomalous aortic origin of a coronary artery: Potential mechanism of coronary artery compression. Histopathology of resected tissue from repair of anomalous aortic origin of a coronary artery: Potential mechanism of coronary artery compression. 2023; 15:412-423. doi: 10.1016/j.xjon.2023.07.020

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37808028/
