PMID: 37804453
Title: Treatment of a symptomatic cervical cerebrospinal fluid fistula after full endoscopic cervical foraminotomy with CT-guided epidural fibrin patch.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: There is only limited data on the management of cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) fistulas after cervical endoscopic spine surgery. We investigated the current literature for treatment options and present a case of a patient who was treated with CT-guided epidural fibrin patch.
METHODS: We present the case of a 47-year-old female patient with a suspected CSF fistula after endoscopic decompression for C7 foraminal stenosis. She was readmitted 8 days after surgery with dysesthesia in both upper extremities, orthostatic headache and neck pain, which worsened during mobilization. A CSF leak was suspected on spinal magnetic resonance imaging. A computer tomography (CT)-guided epidural blood patch was performed with short-term relief. A second CT-guided epidural fibrin patch was executed and the patient improved thereafter and was discharged at home without sensorimotor deficits or sequelae. We investigated the current literature for complications after endoscopic spine surgery and for treatment of postoperative CSF fistulas.
RESULTS: Although endoscopic and open revision surgery with dura repair were described in previous studies, dural tears in endoscopic surgery are frequently treated conservatively. In our case, the patient was severely impaired by a persistent CSF fistula. We opted for a less invasive treatment and performed a CT-guided fibrin patch which resulted in a complete resolution of patient's symptoms.
DISCUSSION AND CONCLUSION: CSF fistulas after cervical endoscopic spine procedures are rare complications. Conservative treatment or revision surgery are the standard of care. CT-guided epidural fibrin patch was an efficient and less invasive option in our case.

Citation: Motov S, et al. Treatment of a symptomatic cervical cerebrospinal fluid fistula after full endoscopic cervical foraminotomy with CT-guided epidural fibrin patch. Treatment of a symptomatic cervical cerebrospinal fluid fistula after full endoscopic cervical foraminotomy with CT-guided epidural fibrin patch. 2024; 33:3124-3128. doi: 10.1007/s00586-023-07973-1

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37804453/
