PMID: 37804013
Title: Predictive Value of Carotid Plaque Contrast-Enhanced Ultrasound Score and Homocysteine in Senile Metabolic Syndrome Complicated by Cerebral Infarction.

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: To investigate the predictive value of the carotid plaque contrast-enhanced ultrasound (CEUS) score and blood homocysteine (HCY) in senile metabolic syndrome (MetS) complicated by cerebral infarction.
STUDY DESIGN: Observational study. Place and Duration of the Study: Department of Ultrasound Imaging, The Affiliated Traditional Chinese Medicine Hospital of Southwest Medical University, China, from July 2020 to December 2021.
METHODOLOGY: A total of 118 senile MetS patients complicated by cerebral infarction were selected as Group A, and 103 senile MetS patients without cerebral infarction were selected as Group B. Both groups were compared in terms of cardiovascular risk factors and ultrasonic examination of carotid plaques. The independent risk factors for cerebral infarction among senile MetS patients were analysed using logistic regression. An ROC curve was used to assess the predictive value of statistically significant risk factors in senile MetS complicated by cerebral infarction.
RESULTS: Significant differences were observed in smoking, abdominal circumference, blood pressure, HCY, fasting blood glucose, high-density and low-density lipoprotein cholesterol, triacylglycerol, carotid plaque thickness, CEUS score, lumen stenosis, and ulcer plaque between the two groups. Logistic regression analysis showed that the plaque CEUS score and HCY were independent risk factors for senile MetS complicated by cerebral infarction. The areas under the ROC curve for the CEUS score and HCY were 0.795 and 0.812, respectively, and was 0.858 for the combined diagnosis of both. When the CEUS score was ≥2 and HCY was ≥16.45 mmol/l, the sensitivity and specificity of predicted senile MetS complicated by cerebral infarction were 83.1% and 74.8%, respectively.
CONCLUSION: The carotid plaque CEUS score and blood HCY exhibit a substantial predictive capacity for cerebral infarction in elderly MetS patients. The combined diagnostic efficacy of the two is superior.
KEY WORDS: Contrast-enhanced ultrasound, Homocysteine, Elderly, Metabolic syndrome, Cerebral infarction, Carotid plaque.

Citation: Zuo Z, et al. Predictive Value of Carotid Plaque Contrast-Enhanced Ultrasound Score and Homocysteine in Senile Metabolic Syndrome Complicated by Cerebral Infarction. Predictive Value of Carotid Plaque Contrast-Enhanced Ultrasound Score and Homocysteine in Senile Metabolic Syndrome Complicated by Cerebral Infarction. 2023; 33:1100-1105. doi: 10.29271/jcpsp.2023.10.1100

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37804013/
