PMID: 37802758
Title: Successful Use of Acellular Small Intestinal Submucosa Graft in Vaginal Reconstruction.

Abstract: PURPOSE: Various techniques for neovaginal construction have been employed in the pediatric and adult populations, including the use of intestinal segments, buccal mucosal grafts, and skin grafts. Small intestinal submucosa (SIS) extracellular matrix grafts have been described as a viable alternative, though prior experience is limited. Our purpose was to assess operative characteristics and patient outcomes with neovaginal construction using SIS grafts.
METHODS: Thirteen patients underwent vaginoplasty with acellular porcine SIS grafts at our institution between 2018 and 2022. Operative and clinical data, postoperative mold management, vaginal dilating length, and complications were reviewed.
RESULTS: Age at time of repair ranged from 13 to 30 years (median 19 years). Patient diagnosis included cloacal anomalies (n = 4), Mayer-Rokitansky-Küster-Hauser syndrome (n = 4), isolated vaginal atresia with or without a transverse vaginal septum (n = 4), and vaginal rhabdomyosarcoma requiring partial vaginectomy (n = 1). Following dissection of the neovaginal space, a silicon mold wrapped with SIS graft was placed with retention sutures and removed on postoperative day 7. Median (IQR) operative time was 171 (118-192) minutes, estimated blood loss was 10 (5-20) mL, and length of stay was 2 (1-3) days. The follow-up period ranged from 3 to 47 months (median 9 months). Two patients developed postoperative vaginal stenosis that resolved with dilation under anesthesia. Mean vaginal length on latest follow-up was 8.97 cm. All thirteen patients had successful engraftment and progressed to performing self-dilations or initiating intercourse to maintain patency. There were no cases of graft reaction or graft extrusion.
CONCLUSIONS: We conclude that acellular small intestinal submucosa grafts are effective and safe alternatives for mold coverage in neovaginal construction. Our experience demonstrates minimal perioperative morbidity, early mold removal, and progression to successful dilation with maintenance of a functional vaginal length. Future study on sexual outcomes, patient satisfaction, and comparison against alternative techniques has been initiated.
LEVEL OF EVIDENCE: IV.
TYPE OF STUDY: Retrospective Study.

Citation: Papastefan ST, et al. Successful Use of Acellular Small Intestinal Submucosa Graft in Vaginal Reconstruction. Successful Use of Acellular Small Intestinal Submucosa Graft in Vaginal Reconstruction. 2024; 59:124-128. doi: 10.1016/j.jpedsurg.2023.08.021

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37802758/
