PMID: 37811058
Title: Long-term patency of bypass to the right atrium as a last resort in two hemodialysis patients: case report.

Abstract: INTRODUCTION: Central venous occlusion (CVO), which is caused by central venous catheters in haemodialysis patients , remains a challenge in vascular surgery.
CASE PRESENTATION: The authors report data evaluating bypass graft patency and complications of two patients with CVO who have benefited from a subclavian artery to right atrium bypass using polytetrafuloroetylene. The first patient , underwent three times an angioplasty of the atrio prothetic anastomosis , finally the graft failed at 12 month. The second one, presented a steal syndrome with ischaemia of the right upper limb immediately postoperatively. Three months after the procedure , she underwent an angiographic control that showed a stenosis of the protheto atrial junction.
CLINICAL DISCUSSION: Central venous occlusion in patients with end-stage kidney disease is most often due to central venous catheters. Although the endovascular therapy is the first-line approach to the treatment of CVO, the surgical bypass to the right atrium is often the last resort to preserve adequate vascular access in haemodialysis patients, with CVO. The autologous vein and bovine arterial bypass remains better than polytetrafuloroetylene grafts in terms of long-term patency. Only few cases have been reported un the literature , besides no long-term outcome data has been previously reported.
CONCLUSION: Long-term secondary patency of bypass to the right atrium can be achieved, but requires strict follow-up, and multiple endovascular procedures to maintain the bypass access.

Citation: Banana Y, et al. Long-term patency of bypass to the right atrium as a last resort in two hemodialysis patients: case report. Long-term patency of bypass to the right atrium as a last resort in two hemodialysis patients: case report. 2023; 85:5043-5046. doi: 10.1097/MS9.0000000000001012

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37811058/
