PMID: 37814846
Title: [Dynamic pathomorphological characteristics of the nasolacrimal duct in its stenosis].

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: Pathological description of the process of stenosis of the nasolacrimal duct at its various stages.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: The material for the study was obtained from the wall of the nasolacrimal duct during surgery in 50 patients whose condition was attributed to the 1st, 2nd or 3rd clinical stage of dacryostenosis. The material was fixed in formalin and sent for pathohistological and immunohistochemical (IHC) studies.
RESULTS: In the 1st stage, the integrity of the epithelium of the nasolacrimal duct was preserved, the density of goblet cells was reduced. Seromucinous glands were single in the lamina propria in the area of stenosis. Diffuse lymphoid-plasmacytic infiltration was observed along the periphery of the terminal sections of the glands and in the subepithelial zone. The infiltrate includes CD68+ tissue macrophages and CD20+ and CD3+ lymphocytes, with a predominance of B-lymphocytes over T-lymphocytes. In the 2nd stage, changes in the epithelial layer in the stenosis zone were detected. In the IHC study, only individual leukocytes were observed in these zones, and T cells were found mainly in the subepithelial zone, B cells - deeper, monocytes - evenly in all layers. In the adjacent zones, the picture of the infiltrate corresponded to the 1st stage. In the 3rd stage, fragments of the nasolacrimal duct wall were represented by dense fibrous connective tissue with pronounced atrophic changes, areas of squamous metaplasia or proliferation of the basal layer, goblet cells were not detected. There was no infiltrate in the area of stenosis during IHC study. In the cellular elements of the infiltrate in areas adjacent to the stenosis zone, CD20+ and CD3+ lymphocytes were present in equal proportions, the arrangement in layers corresponded to that of the 2nd stage.
CONCLUSION: The results of the study showed that dacryostenosis is a progressive pathological process associated with the progredient development of chronic productive inflammation in the lacrimal ducts.

Citation: Atkova EL, et al. [Dynamic pathomorphological characteristics of the nasolacrimal duct in its stenosis]. [Dynamic pathomorphological characteristics of the nasolacrimal duct in its stenosis]. 2023; 85:22-28. doi: 10.17116/patol20238505122

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37814846/
