PMID: 37811628
Title: Application of Dual-Source CT Using Iterative Reconstruction Technology Combined with CT-FFR Parameters in the Diagnosis of Coronary Heart Disease.

Abstract: BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVE: In order to achieve early detection of myocardial ischemia and improve the diagnosis of coronary heart disease (CHD), it is necessary to find a convenient, non-invasive and effective examination method. This study aimed to explore the application value of dual-source computed tomography (CT) by using advanced modeled iterative reconstruction (ADMIRE) combined with computed tomography-fractional flow reserve (CT-FFR) technique in CHD, which provides imaging basis for early diagnosis of CHD and myocardial ischemia.
METHODS: Seventy-five CHD patients were examined by coronary computed tomography angiography (CCTA). Their CCTA images were reconstructed by iterative algorithm in ADMIRE 1-5 using post-processing workstation. The standard deviation (SD), signal-to-noise ratio (SNR) and contrast-to-noise ratio (CNR) of proximal vascular images in right coronary artery (RCA), left main coronary artery (LM), left anterior descending artery (LAD) and left circumflex artery (LCX) were analyzed and compared. Invasive coronary angiography (ICA) was adopted in patients with ≥50% stenosis of coronary artery diameter. Taking ICA as the gold-standard method to accurately assess coronary arterial stenosis degree, the diagnostic efficiency of dual-source CT to diagnose coronary artery stenosis was analyzed. Some patients were subjected to myocardial CT perfusion (CTP) scanning and CT-FFR analysis, which facilitated analyzing the correlation and consistency between the diagnostic results of CTP and analysis results of CT-FFR.
RESULTS: There was no statistical difference in the CT values of RCA, LM, LAD and LCX in groups with different ADMIRE reconstruction intensities (p &gt; 0.05). But the noise, SNR and CNR interval were different among the iterative intensity groups (p &lt; 0.05). Kappa consistency analysis was used to analyze the subjective evaluation results of image quality under different iterative reconstruction grades. The independent sample t-test performed on the subjective scores revealed that the scores on images were the best at ADMIRE 4. CCTA has sensitivity, specificity, positive predictive value, and negative predictive value of 91.52%, 97.59%, 97.98%, and 96.42% for identifying coronary artery stenosis, respectively. The diagnostic efficacy of CT-FFR, the Kappa analysis of myocardial CTP and CT-FFR results, which yields a Kappa value of 0.830 (p &lt; 0.05). Spearman correlation analysis was used to statistically analyze the results of myocardial CTP and CT-FFR (correlation coefficient r = 0.774, p &lt; 0.05). Diagnostic sensitivity and specificity were 93% and 95%, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: The dual-source CT using ADMIRE iterative algorithm has the best display of coronary vessels and higher image quality when the intensity is 4, and CT-FFR can be used as a non-invasive method for early detection of myocardial ischemia, which is worthy of clinical application.

Citation: Wu C, et al. Application of Dual-Source CT Using Iterative Reconstruction Technology Combined with CT-FFR Parameters in the Diagnosis of Coronary Heart Disease. Application of Dual-Source CT Using Iterative Reconstruction Technology Combined with CT-FFR Parameters in the Diagnosis of Coronary Heart Disease. 2023; 35:897-909. doi: 10.24976/Discov.Med.202335178.85

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37811628/
