PMID: 37817218
Title: Surgical management of ostomy complications: a MISSTO-WSES mapping review.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: The creation of an ileostomy or colostomy is a common surgical event, both in elective and in emergency context. The main aim of stoma creation is to prevent postoperative complications, such as the anastomotic leak. However, stoma-related complications can also occur and their morbidity is not negligible, with a rate from 20 to 70%. Most stomal complications are managed conservatively, but, when this approach is not resolutive, surgical treatment becomes necessary. The aim of this mapping review is to get a comprehensive overview on the incidence, the risk factors, and the management of the main early and late ostomy complications: stoma necrosis, mucocutaneous separation, stoma retraction, stoma prolapse, parastomal hernia, stoma stenosis, and stoma bleeding.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: A complete literature research in principal databases (PUBMED, EMBASE, SCOPUS and COCHRANE) was performed by Multidisciplinary Italian Study group for STOmas (MISSTO) for each topic, with no language restriction and limited to the years 2011-2021. An international expert panel, from MISSTO and World Society of Emergency Surgery (WSES), subsequently reviewed the different issues, endorsed the project, and approved the final manuscript.
CONCLUSION: Stoma-related complications are common and require a step-up management, from conservative stoma care to surgical stoma revision. A study of literature evidence in clinical practice for stoma creation and an improved management of stoma-related complications could significantly increase the quality of life of patients with ostomy. Solid evidence from the literature about the correct management is lacking, and an international consensus is needed to draw up new guidelines on this subject.

Citation: Parini D, et al. Surgical management of ostomy complications: a MISSTO-WSES mapping review. Surgical management of ostomy complications: a MISSTO-WSES mapping review. 2023; 18:48. doi: 10.1186/s13017-023-00516-5

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37817218/
