PMID: 37814310
Title: Comparison of the effectiveness of three different rhinoplasty techniques to correct stenotic nostrils using silicone models: A case study.

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: To compare the effects of three different rhinoplasty techniques on the postoperative cross-sectional areas (CSAs) of the nares and nasal vestibuli.
STUDY DESIGN: Experimental study.
SAMPLE POPULATION: Ninety-nine 3D-printed, remolded silicone models of a single French bulldog's rostral nose.
METHODS: Models were fabricated based on a computed tomographic (CT) scan of the nose of a French bulldog with moderately stenotic nares. Each model underwent either vertical wedge resection (VW), modified horizontal wedge resection (MHW), or ala-vestibuloplasty (AVP) performed by a single surgeon (n = 33 per group). Preoperative and postoperative CT scans of the models were performed, and CSAs of the airway from the nares to the caudal end of the nasal vestibules were calculated.
RESULTS: All three rhinoplasty techniques increased CSAs (adjusted p values <.001) but to different levels caudally within the nasal vestibule. Vertical wedge resection achieved this up to the start of the alar fold, MHW up to halfway between the nares and the alar fold and AVP up to the caudal nasal vestibule. Average percentage increases in CSA were 26%, 15% and 74%, respectively. Ala-vestibuloplasty led to larger CSAs than VW and MHW from the nares to the caudal nasal vestibule (adjusted p values <.05). The proportional difference within each technique was <7%.
CONCLUSION: Ala-vestibuloplasty resulted in a larger increase in the airway CSA of silicone modeled nares and nasal vestibules of a single French bulldog in comparison with VW and MHW.
CLINICAL SIGNIFICANCE: Ala-vestibuloplasty can be considered for French bulldogs with moderately stenotic nares and evidence of nasal vestibular stenosis.

Citation: Franklin PH, et al. Comparison of the effectiveness of three different rhinoplasty techniques to correct stenotic nostrils using silicone models: A case study. Comparison of the effectiveness of three different rhinoplasty techniques to correct stenotic nostrils using silicone models: A case study. 2024; 53:104-112. doi: 10.1111/vsu.14041

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37814310/
