PMID: 37819101
Title: Direct Transverse Sinus Puncture for Transvenous Coil Embolization of Vein of Galen Malformations: Innovating Existing Techniques.

Abstract: BACKGROUND AND IMPORTANCE: Vein of Galen malformations (VOGMs) are complex arteriovenous malformations in neonates and young children. Recent advances in endovascular interventions have drastically improved treatment and clinical outcomes in what was previously high-morbidity, high-mortality disease. The high-flow shunt pathophysiology in VOGMs can lead to dynamic changes in the malformation angioarchitecture, and over time patients can develop jugular bulb stenosis. In the setting of inaccessible transvenous access to the malformation for endovascular embolization in cases where transarterial embolization is inadequate, a combined surgical and endovascular technique must be used. We present the first successful modern-day application of direct puncture through transverse sinus for transvenous embolization of a VOGM.
CLINICAL PRESENTATION: We present 2 unique cases of complex VOGM malformations in patients who had previously undergone staged endovascular embolization for reduction of flow within the malformation. On follow-up, in both cases, there was development of severe sigmoid sinus and jugular bulb stenosis, increasing intracranial venous congestion and causing marked clinical deterioration. The stenosis prevented traditional transvenous access and treatment. We describe a direct puncture transverse sinus access using a burr hole approach for endovascular transvenous embolization in both cases with successful clinical outcomes.
CONCLUSION: Direct access using burr hole craniotomy to the transverse sinus for transvenous endovascular embolization is a safe approach in the setting of severe jugular bulb stenosis for treatment of VOGMs. This technique can be done efficiently to achieve complete flow elimination in the malformation, in cases where that is called for, without significant risks or complications related to the approach.

Citation: Rangwala SD, et al. Direct Transverse Sinus Puncture for Transvenous Coil Embolization of Vein of Galen Malformations: Innovating Existing Techniques. Direct Transverse Sinus Puncture for Transvenous Coil Embolization of Vein of Galen Malformations: Innovating Existing Techniques. 2023; 25:e352-e358. doi: 10.1227/ons.0000000000000883

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37819101/
