PMID: 37818437
Title: Kissing balloon inflation for transcatheter aortic valve replacement and abutting ostial coronary artery stent.

Abstract: UNLABELLED: In patients with ostial coronary stents protruding into the aorta, there is concern for stent injury while undergoing transcatheter aortic valve replacement (TAVR) with balloon-expandable transcatheter heart valve (THV). An 82-year-old male with history of symptomatic aortic stenosis, heart failure, and coronary artery disease with multiple interventions to right coronary artery (RCA) and a history of stent fracture requiring stent-in-stent placement one year previously, was evaluated for TAVR. His ostial RCA stent was protruding into the aorta at the level of sinotubular junction, with ostial stent to aortic wall (SAW) distance of 25.2 mm. There was concern for balloon inflation during TAVR leading to stent injury. The RCA was cannulated with a 6 French JR4 guide and wired with 0.014' coronary wire. Appropriately sized noncompliant balloon was advanced into RCA. Under rapid pacing, the coronary balloon was inflated across the RCA ostium followed by simultaneous deployment of THV. Intravascular imaging of the ostial RCA stent revealed no stent fracture. SAW distance is important to determine the possibility of balloon-induced stent injury during valve deployment. In cases where an ostial stent may interact with balloon inflation, kissing-balloon inflation may be performed to prevent stent injury.
LEARNING OBJECTIVE: In patients with ostial coronary stents protruding into the aorta, stent to aortic wall distance is important to determine the possibility of balloon-induced stent injury during balloon-expandable transcatheter heart valve deployment. Kissing-balloon inflation may be performed to prevent stent injury.

Citation: Basman C, et al. Kissing balloon inflation for transcatheter aortic valve replacement and abutting ostial coronary artery stent. Kissing balloon inflation for transcatheter aortic valve replacement and abutting ostial coronary artery stent. 2023; 28:141-143. doi: 10.1016/j.jccase.2023.05.007

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37818437/
