PMID: 37817071
Title: Association of serum cystatin C level with coronary atherosclerotic plaque burden: a comprehensive analysis of observational studies and genetic study.

Abstract: BACKGROUND AND AIMS: Epidemiological studies show that high circulating cystatin C is associated with risk of cardiovascular disease (CVD), independent of creatinine-based renal function measurements. However, the relationship between serum cystatin C level and coronary atherosclerotic plaque burden is limited. We aimed to evaluate the relationship between circulating cystatin C and coronary atherosclerotic plaque burden.
METHODS: This study was a cross-sectional study based on China community population. Measurements of plaque burden were based on the segment-involvement score (SIS) and segment stenosis score (SSS), which derived from the Coronary Artery Tree Model Depicting Coronary Artery Plaque Scores. Logistic regression model was used to demonstrate the association between cystatin C level and coronary artery plaque burden. Mendelian randomization (MR) analyses were conducted to assess the causal effect of cystatin C level on coronary atherosclerosis risk.
RESULTS: A total of 3,043 objects were included in the present study. The odds risks (OR) of severe plaque burden in the highest serum cystatin C levels (OR: 2.50; Cl:1.59-3.91; P < 0.001) and medium-level cystatin C levels (OR: 1.86; 95% Cl: 1.21-2.88; P = 0.005) were significantly higher after fulled adjusted confounders compared with the lowest levels of serum cystatin C by SSS. The MR analysis showed that genetic predicted cystatin C levels was associated with an increased risk of coronary atherosclerosis (OR, 1.004; 95% CI, 1.002-1.006, P < 0.001) .
CONCLUSION: Elevated serum cystatin C levels were associated with coronary atherosclerotic plaque burden. Cystatin C levels had a causal effect on an increased risk of coronary atherosclerosis at the genetic level. WHAT IS ALREADY KNOWN ON THIS TOPIC?: Coronary artery disease is currently the most common cardiovascular disease and the leading global cause of mortality. Previous studies reported that higher serum cystatin C levels were associated with an increased risk for future cardiovascular events, independent of the normal creatinine levels or estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR) values. The presence of high-risk coronary atherosclerotic plaque burden is associated with increased risk of cardiovascular events. However, the association between serum cystatin C and coronary atherosclerotic plaque burden is not very clear. WHAT THIS STUDY ADDS?: Our study demonstrated that the elevated serum cystatin C levels were associated with coronary atherosclerotic plaque burden. In addition, we found that serum cystatin C levels had a causal effect on an increased risk of coronary atherosclerosis at the genetic level. HOW THIS STUDY MIGHT AFFECT RESEARCH, PRACTICE OR POLICY?: Current research finds that serum cystatin C levels were associated with coronary atherosclerosis. The metabolic pathway of cystatin C could be a target for new therapies against CAD.

Citation: Chen J, et al. Association of serum cystatin C level with coronary atherosclerotic plaque burden: a comprehensive analysis of observational studies and genetic study. Association of serum cystatin C level with coronary atherosclerotic plaque burden: a comprehensive analysis of observational studies and genetic study. 2023; 23:499. doi: 10.1186/s12872-023-03506-2

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37817071/
