PMID: 37810294
Title: Giant cell arteritis with severe intracranial involvement diagnosed and treated early.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Ischemic cerebrovascular accidents (CVA) occur in 3.3-7.2% of patients with giant cell arteritis (GCA), and intracranial vessels are rarely affected. We, herein, report a case of intracranial GCA with rapidly progressive multiple intracranial vascular lesions.
CASE DESCRIPTION: A 76-year-old woman visited a local doctor due to a headache; then, it improved spontaneously. Three months later, she suddenly had cerebral infarctions of bilateral pons and cerebellum. Magnetic resonance angiography (MRA) revealed the left internal carotid artery (ICA) occlusion, the right vertebral artery (VA) occlusion, and the left VA stenosis. She was diagnosed with atherothrombotic stroke and dual antiplatelet therapy was administered. However, 2 weeks later, the left VA stenosis was aggravated. Therefore, we reviewed the data of MRA performed 3 months ago and noted no lesions in the ICA and VA. T1 black-blood post-gadolinium imaging sequence magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) revealed vessel wall enhancement in the bilateral VA, left ICA, and bilateral superficial temporal artery. We performed a temporal artery biopsy and diagnosed her with GCA. The progression of the intracranial vascular lesions was decelerated by oral glucocorticoid administration.
CONCLUSION: Intracranial vascular lesions in GCA can be formed later than initial symptoms, such as headache, and aggravated despite improvement in headache. In patients with GCA, evaluating intracranial vessels as a control is useful for distinguishing them from arteriosclerotic lesions at the onset of CVA. Intracranial GCA is characterized by rapidly progressive vascular lesions in the bilateral ICA and VA. In addition, T1 black-blood post-gadolinium imaging sequence MRI may lead to early diagnosis and treatment.

Citation: Mineji K, et al. Giant cell arteritis with severe intracranial involvement diagnosed and treated early. Giant cell arteritis with severe intracranial involvement diagnosed and treated early. 2023; 14:332. doi: 10.25259/SNI_529_2023

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37810294/
