PMID: 37814585
Title: The clinical significance of ischaemia-modified albumin in acute coronary syndrome and hypertension.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Early diagnosis of acute coronary syndrome is more and more important because of its mortality and morbidity. Hypertension is one of the pathogenesis of acute coronary syndrome, which often leads to stenosis and ischaemia. Ischaemia-modified albumin is sensitive for the occurrence of ischaemia, which attracted us in the significance of ischaemia-modified albumin in patients with chest pain, especially patients complicated with hypertension.
METHODS: In total, 200 patients with acute chest pain were included in the study. According to the diagnostic criteria, patients were divided into acute coronary syndrome group and non-ischaemic chest pain group. Cardiac biomarkers were measured with 30 minutes in emergency department, including cardiac troponin T, creatine kinase MB, and ischaemia-modified albumin. Receiver operating characteristic curve (ROC) analysis was used for the sensitivity and specificity of ischaemia-modified albumin in the early diagnosis of acute coronary syndrome. Comparisons between ischaemia-modified albumin and cardiac Troponin T were done between groups.
RESULTS: The demographics in two groups were not significantly different in most aspects. Compared with non-ischaemic chest pain group, serum levels of ischaemia-modified albumin and cardiac Troponin T were significantly higher in acute coronary syndrome group. ROC analysis showed that ischaemia-modified albumin had a good sensitivity and specificity in early diagnosis of acute coronary syndrome. The level of ischaemia-modified albumin in acute coronary syndrome patients with hypertension was higher than that in non-ischaemic chest pain patients.
CONCLUSIONS: In patients complained with acute chest pain, the serum measurement of ischaemia-modified albumin is potential valuable for the early diagnosis of acute coronary syndrome, especially combined with ECG. The serum level of ischaemia-modified albumin in acute coronary syndrome patients is significantly associated with hypertension.

Citation: Pan G, et al. The clinical significance of ischaemia-modified albumin in acute coronary syndrome and hypertension. The clinical significance of ischaemia-modified albumin in acute coronary syndrome and hypertension. 2024; 34:748-753. doi: 10.1017/S104795112300330X

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37814585/
