PMID: 37827124
Title: Revisiting the Predictive Role of Truncal-Type Occlusion Sign for Acute Large Vessel Stroke Treated by Endovascular Thrombectomy: A Scoping Review.

Abstract: INTRODUCTION: The truncal-type occlusion (TTO) sign observed during endovascular thrombectomy is thought to predict the etiology and prognosis of acute ischemic stroke (AIS) due to large vessel occlusion (LVO). However, the interpretation of the present results and the clinical utility of this sign need further investigation. This scoping meta-review aimed to assess the predictive value of the TTO sign, thus identifying methodological limitations in current study designs.
METHODS: Studies published up to January 2023 were identified by systematically searching PubMed, Embase, and Web of Science. A meta-analysis was performed to quantitatively synthesize the evidence on the predictive value of the TTO sign. An 8-point scale was introduced to narratively summarize the current evidence level and methodological quality of included studies.
RESULTS: We included 10 studies in this review. For the prediction of intracranial atherosclerotic stenosis, the sensitivity, specificity, positive likelihood ratio (PLR), and negative likelihood ratio (NLR) of the TTO sign were 0.73, 0.87, 5.5, and 0.31, respectively (all p &lt; 0.05). For recanalization failure after primary thrombectomy, the sensitivity, specificity, PLR, and NLR were 0.44, 0.91, 4.9, and 0.61, respectively (all p &lt; 0.05). The strength of evidence was low due to the methodological limitations and lack of adjustment for potential confounders.
CONCLUSION: The predictive values of the TTO sign for the etiology of LVO-AIS were considerable but seemed limited for current interpretation. Several confounders could influence the determination and predictive value of the TTO sign, requiring methodological adjustments in future research. Endovascular practitioners encountering this sign during thrombectomy should draw specific attention to stroke etiology, thus promoting timely adjustment of intra- and postprocedural strategies.

Citation: Zhao B, et al. Revisiting the Predictive Role of Truncal-Type Occlusion Sign for Acute Large Vessel Stroke Treated by Endovascular Thrombectomy: A Scoping Review. Revisiting the Predictive Role of Truncal-Type Occlusion Sign for Acute Large Vessel Stroke Treated by Endovascular Thrombectomy: A Scoping Review. 2024; 53:625-634. doi: 10.1159/000534279

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37827124/
