PMID: 37821085
Title: Clinical Factors for Successful Removal of Airway Silicone Stents in Patients With Post-Tuberculosis Tracheobronchial Stenosis.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: After relieving stenosis with an airway silicone stent in post-tuberculosis bronchial stenosis (PTTS), stent removal is attempted if it is determined that airway patency can be maintained even after stent removal. However, the factors affecting airway stent removal are not well known. We investigate the factors that enable the successful removal of airway silicone stents in patients with PTTS.
METHODS: We retrospectively analyzed PTTS patients who underwent bronchoscopic intervention from January 2004 to December 2019. Successful stent removal is defined as airway patency maintained when the stent is removed, so that reinsertion of the stent is not required. A multivariate logistic regression analysis was used to identify independent factors associated with successful stent removal at the first attempt.
RESULTS: Total 344 patients were analyzed. Patients were followed up for a median of 47.9 (26.9-85.2) months after airway stent insertion. Approximately 69% of PTTS patients finally maintained airway patency after the stent was removed. Factors related to successful stent removal at the first attempt were older age and male sex. Absence of parenchymal calcification, segmental consolidation & bronchiolitis, and no trachea involved lesion were relevant to the successful stent removal. Stent dwelling for 12-24 months was associated with successful stent removal compared to a duration of less than 12 months.
CONCLUSION: For patients whose airway patency is determined to be maintained even without a stent, it is necessary to attempt stent removal in consideration of factors related to successful stent removal.

Citation: Kim BG, et al. Clinical Factors for Successful Removal of Airway Silicone Stents in Patients With Post-Tuberculosis Tracheobronchial Stenosis. Clinical Factors for Successful Removal of Airway Silicone Stents in Patients With Post-Tuberculosis Tracheobronchial Stenosis. 2023; 38:e308. doi: 10.3346/jkms.2023.38.e308

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37821085/
