PMID: 37823956
Title: Endoscopic transaqueductal stent placement for tumor-related aqueductal compression in pediatric patients: surgical consideration, technique, and results.

Abstract: PURPOSE: Endoscopic transaqueductal stenting has become a well-accepted treatment option for a selected small subset of aqueductal stenosis-related obstructive hydrocephalus. However, transaqueductal stenting poses unique challenges and risks which requires critical consideration. This report discusses the clinical experiences with transaqueductal stenting for periaqueductal tumor-related aqueductal stenosis focusing on pediatric patients.
METHODS: A retrospective analysis of all patients undergoing endoscopic TAS from 01/1993 to 01/2022 in the author's departments was performed. Demographic, clinical, radiological, and intraoperative endoscopic data were evaluated. All patients with AS-related occlusive hydrocephalus that was treated with TAS were analyzed and prospectively followed. Special attention has been given to providing insights into indications, surgical technique, and limitations.
RESULTS: Out of 28 endoscopic transaqueductal endoscopis stenting procedures, five procedures were performed on periaqueductal tumor-related obstructive hydrocephalus, two children and three adult patients. CSF pathway was obstructed by tumor located in the aqueduct in 2, by tumor in the thalamus/mesencephalon in 1, by a tumor within the third ventricle in 1, and by a tumor of the lamina tecti in 1. Simultaneously with transaqueductal stenting, 2 endoscopic third ventriculostomies (ETV), 3 tumor biopsies, and 1 tumor resection were performed. Postoperative complications included the following: CSF fistula (1 case), and asymptomatic fornix contusion (1 case). A working aqueductal stent was achieved in all cases based on clinical follow-up evaluation. Postoperatively, all patients showed improvement or resolution of their symptoms. The mean follow-up period was 25.2 months (range, 1-108 months). One patient died due to tumor progression during early follow-up. No stent migration was seen.
CONCLUSION: Endoscopic third ventriculostomy remains the gold standard for treatment of CSF circulation obstructions with lesions in the posterior third ventricle and aqueduct. Transaqueductal stenting for periaqueductal tumor-related aqueductal compression is technically feasible. However, because of the potential high risks and subtle advantages compared with ETV transaqueductal stenting, it might be indicated in a small subset of well-selected patients if alternative treatment options are not at hand.

Citation: Prajsnar-Borak A, et al. Endoscopic transaqueductal stent placement for tumor-related aqueductal compression in pediatric patients: surgical consideration, technique, and results. Endoscopic transaqueductal stent placement for tumor-related aqueductal compression in pediatric patients: surgical consideration, technique, and results. 2024; 40:395-405. doi: 10.1007/s00381-023-06171-0

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37823956/
