PMID: 37837843
Title: Predictors of response to endoscopic management of subglottic/tracheal stenosis in patients without tracheostomy.

Abstract: INTRODUCTION: Subglottic and tracheal stenosis (SGTS) in adults is an acquired or idiopathic condition that can lead to dyspnea, and even life-threatening airway obstruction. Endoscopic techniques have advanced and largely eclipsed open surgery, with open surgery now reserved for refractory cases (Hseu et al., 2013; Feinstein et al., 2017). Currently, there is no accepted guideline for the endoscopic treatment of SGTS. Thus, the aim of the present study is to examine the impact of various clinical and pathological characteristics on outcomes to endoscopic treatment in a cohort of SGTS patients.
DISCLOSURE: None of the authors have any financial or personal relationship that could cause a conflict of interest regarding this article.
METHODS: Retrospective chart review was performed for 41 patients presenting with SGS without a tracheostomy over a 4-year-period (2018-2022), within a single tertiary care center. Quantitative outcomes including number of dilation procedures undergone and need for open procedures were examined. The qualitative variables included a history of pulmonary disease, prior tracheostomy/tracheal resection, presence of tracheomalacia, granulation tissue, excessive dynamic airway collapse (EDAC), and etiology of idiopathic subglottic stenosis.
RESULTS: The presence of granulation tissue seen on tracheoscopy was associated with a higher number (4+) of dilation procedures (p = 0.01). A history of pulmonary disease (p = 0.037), the presence of tracheomalacia (p = 0.039), and the presence of granulation tissue (0.003) were all associated with a need for open procedures.
CONCLUSION: Patients with the presence of granulation tissue, tracheomalacia, and a history of pulmonary disease were more associated with more severe disease requiring either a higher number of endoscopic procedures or need for open procedures.

Citation: Ahmadian D, et al. Predictors of response to endoscopic management of subglottic/tracheal stenosis in patients without tracheostomy. Predictors of response to endoscopic management of subglottic/tracheal stenosis in patients without tracheostomy. 2024; 45:104055. doi: 10.1016/j.amjoto.2023.104055

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37837843/
