PMID: 37837558
Title: Impact of surgical treatment on lipid metabolism in patients with lumbar spinal disorders: Prospective observational study.

Abstract: PURPOSE: It is still unclear how lumbar spinal surgery affects the lipid metabolism of patients with lumbar spinal disorders (LSDs) such as lumbar spinal canal stenosis and lumbar disk herniation. The present study aimed to assess the impact of lumbar spinal surgery on lipid metabolism in patients with LSDs and clarify the factors associated with changes in visceral fat (VF) accumulation before and after lumbar spinal surgery.
METHODS: Consecutive patients with lumbar spinal surgery for LSDs were prospectively included. Abdominal computed tomography images and blood examination of the participants were evaluated before surgery and at 6 months and 1 year after surgery. The cross-sectional VF area (VFA) was measured at the level of the navel using computed tomography images. Blood examination items included triglycerides and high-density lipoprotein (HDL).
RESULTS: The study enrolled a total of 138 patients. Female patients with LSDs had significantly increased VFA and serum triglyceride levels after lumbar spinal surgery. On multivariable analysis, the group with &gt; 100 cm2 of preoperative VFA and a postoperative decrease in VFA had a significantly worse preoperative walking ability based on the Japanese Orthopaedic Association Back Pain Evaluation Questionnaire (relative risk 2.1; 95% confidence intervals 1.1-4.1).
CONCLUSIONS: The present study demonstrated that patients with LSDs did not necessarily improve their lipid metabolism after lumbar spinal surgery. Instead, female patients with LSDs had significantly deteriorated lipid metabolism after lumbar spinal surgery. Finally, a worse preoperative walking ability was associated with the improvement in excess VF accumulation after lumbar spinal surgery.

Citation: Nakajima Y, et al. Impact of surgical treatment on lipid metabolism in patients with lumbar spinal disorders: Prospective observational study. Impact of surgical treatment on lipid metabolism in patients with lumbar spinal disorders: Prospective observational study. 2023; 32:4153-4161. doi: 10.1007/s00586-023-07976-y

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37837558/
