PMID: 37837717
Title: Pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma complete regression after preoperative chemotherapy: Surgical results in a small series.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) becomes a systemic disease from an early stage. Complete surgical resection remains the only validated and potentially curative treatment; disappointingly only 20% of patients present with a resectable tumour. Although a complete pathological regression (pCR) after the preoperative chemotherapy could intuitively lead to better outcomes and prolonged survival some reports highlighted significant rates of recurrence.
CASES PRESENTATION: We describe three cases of pCR following preoperative chemotherapy for PDAC. The first two cases received neoadjuvant mFOLFIRINOX and PAX-G scheme for borderline resectable PDAC. Recurrence appeared 9 and 12 months after surgery. Although both patients started adjuvant therapy straight after the diagnosis of recurrence, the disease rapidly progressed and led them to death 12 and 15 months after surgery. The third case was characterized by germline BRCA2 mutation. The patient presented with PDAC of the body, intrapancreatic biliary stenosis and suspected peritoneal metastasis. One year later, after first and second-line chemotherapy, she underwent explorative laparoscopy and total spleno-pancreatectomy without evidence of viable tumour cells in the surgical specimen. At six months she is recurrence-free.
CONCLUSIONS: Very few reports describe a complete pathological response following preoperative chemotherapy in pancreatic cancer. We observed three cases in the last three years with disappointing oncological results. Further investigations are needed to predict PDAC prognosis in pCR after chemotherapy.

Citation: Pinelli D, et al. Pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma complete regression after preoperative chemotherapy: Surgical results in a small series. Pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma complete regression after preoperative chemotherapy: Surgical results in a small series. 2023; 37:100770. doi: 10.1016/j.ctarc.2023.100770

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37837717/
