PMID: 37846346
Title: Factors Affecting Carotid Artery Stenosis in the Elderly Living at High Altitudes.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Factors affecting carotid artery stenosis have been generally investigated. However, considering the protective effect of altitude, studies on elderly individuals at high altitudes are few. Our aim is to investigate the systematic adaptive changes caused by high-altitude exposure through the causes of carotid artery stenosis.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Carotid Doppler ultrasound was performed on 250 patients over the age of 50 years. The patients' age, gender, height, weight, smoking history, place of residence, and presence of comorbidities were questioned. Those with diabetes, hypertension, hyperlipidemia, and coronary disease were excluded from the study. Those who did not reside at high altitudes were excluded from the study. One hundred and thirty-five patients were included in the study. Carotid artery Doppler findings and biochemical parameters were recorded. Factors affecting stenosis in the carotid arteries were compared.
RESULTS: In our study, the factors affecting carotid stenosis were determined to be age, gender, presence of plaque, plaque type, and mean carotid intima-media thickness (CIMT). The mean CIMT of the patients was calculated as 0.71±0.14 mm. The mean CIMT measurement level was significantly higher in patients with plaque in the carotid artery (p<0.05). According to receiver operating characteristic curves, CIMT values higher than 0.72 mm increase plaque and stenosis formation in the common carotid artery (CCA) and internal carotid artery (ICA) in elderly people living at high altitudes (p<0.05, area under the curve [AUC]: 0.71-0.83).
CONCLUSIONS: The most important factors affecting carotid stenosis in individuals living at high altitudes are age, gender, CIMT, plaque, and plaque type. When soft plaques were detected, the risk of stenosis was found to be higher than in calcific plaques. Additionally, the number of factors affecting stenosis was greater on the left (ICA). This suggests that the left carotid system is more vulnerable. It can be said that in elderly individuals living at high altitudes, a CIMT higher than 0.72 mm is a cutoff value in the presence of plaque and stenosis in the carotid arteries.

Citation: Sukun A and Önal C. Factors Affecting Carotid Artery Stenosis in the Elderly Living at High Altitudes. Factors Affecting Carotid Artery Stenosis in the Elderly Living at High Altitudes. 2023; 15:e47048. doi: 10.7759/cureus.47048

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37846346/
