PMID: 37849264
Title: [Pelvic exenteration for late complications of radiation-induced pelvic injury: a preliminary study].

Abstract: Objective: To investigate the safety and efficacy of total pelvic exenteration (TPE) for treating late complications of radiation-induced pelvic injury. Methods: This was a descriptive case series study. The inclusion criteria were as follows: (1) confirmed radiation-induced pelvic injury after radiotherapy for pelvic malignancies; (2) late complications of radiation-induced pelvic injury, such as bleeding, perforation, fistula, and obstruction, involving multiple pelvic organs; (3) TPE recommended by a multidisciplinary team; (4) patient in good preoperative condition and considered fit enough to tolerate TPE; and (5) patient extremely willing to undergo the procedure and accept the associated risks. The exclusion criteria were as follows: (1) preoperative or intraoperative diagnosis of tumor recurrence or metastasis; (2) had only undergone diversion or bypass surgery after laparoscopic exploration; and (3) incomplete medical records. Clinical and follow-up data of patients who had undergone TPE for late complications of radiation-induced pelvic injury between March 2020 and September 2022 at the Sixth Affiliated Hospital of Sun Yat-sen University were analyzed. Perioperative recovery, postoperative complications, perioperative deaths, and quality of life 1 year postoperatively were recorded. Results: The study cohort comprised 14 women, nine of whom had recto-vagino-vesical fistulas, two vesicovaginal fistulas, one ileo-vesical fistula and rectal necrosis, one ileo-vesical and rectovaginal fistulas, and one rectal ulcer and bilateral ureteral stenosis. The mean duration of surgery was 592.1±167.6 minutes and the median blood loss 550 (100-6000) mL. Ten patients underwent intestinal reconstruction, and four the Hartmann procedure. Ten patients underwent urinary reconstruction using Bricker's procedure and 7 underwent pelvic floor reconstruction. The mean postoperative hospital stay was 23.6±14.9 days. Seven patients (7/14) had serious postoperative complications (Clavien-Dindo IIIa to IVb), including surgical site infections in eight, abdominopelvic abscesses in five, pulmonary infections in five, intestinal obstruction in four, and urinary leakage in two. Empty pelvis syndrome (EPS) was diagnosed in five patients, none of whom had undergone pelvic floor reconstruction. Five of the seven patients who had not undergone pelvic floor reconstruction developed EPS, compared with none of those who had undergone pelvic floor reconstruction. One patient with EPS underwent reoperation because of a pelvic abscess, pelvic hemorrhage, and intestinal obstruction. There were no perioperative deaths. During 18.9±10.1 months of follow-up, three patients died, two of renal failure, which was a preoperative comorbidity, and one of COVID-19. The remaining patients had gradual and significant relief of symptoms during follow-up. QLQ-C30 assessment of postoperative quality of life showed gradual improvement in all functional domains and general health at 1, 3, and 6 months postoperatively (all P&lt;0.05). Conclusions: TPE is a feasible procedure for treating late complications of radiation-induced pelvic injury combined with complex pelvic fistulas. TPE is effective in alleviating symptoms and improving quality of life. However, the indications for this procedure should be strictly controlled and the surgery carried out only by experienced surgeons.

Citation: He YJ, et al. [Pelvic exenteration for late complications of radiation-induced pelvic injury: a preliminary study]. [Pelvic exenteration for late complications of radiation-induced pelvic injury: a preliminary study]. 2023; 26:940-946. doi: 10.3760/cma.j.cn441530-20230816-00053

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37849264/
