PMID: 37842345
Title: Direct Coronary Artery Reimplantation of Anomalous Aortic Origin of the Right Coronary Artery: A Case Report.

Abstract: Anomalous aortic origin of the coronary artery (AAOCA) is a rare congenital cardiac abnormality. Although AAOCA can cause angina, syncope, palpitations, and sudden cardiac death, most patients remain asymptomatic. A 60-year-old woman experienced occasional chest discomfort. A coronary computed tomography (CT) showed that the right coronary artery (RCA) originated from the left sinus of Valsalva, indicating AAORCA. Exercise myocardial scintigraphy revealed ischemia in the inferior wall. Cardiac catheterization showed stenosis in the ostium of the RCA. Therefore, direct reimplantation of the RCA into the right sinus was performed under cardiopulmonary bypass. The patient recovered uneventfully, postoperatively. Postoperative coronary CT showed no evidence of bending or stenosis in the RCA. Moreover, exercise scintigraphy showed no ischemic changes. The patient was discharged on postoperative day 18 after the resolution of chest discomfort and remained healthy for the following one year. AAORCA is a rare congenital abnormality that could lead to sudden cardiac death. Appropriate imaging studies and surgery should be performed in symptomatic patients with AAORCA who have inter-arterial paths between the ascending aorta and pulmonary artery with right coronary ostial stenosis. Reimplantation of the RCA directly into the right coronary sinus with adequate mobilization of the RCA is a simple procedure that can return the anatomic and biophysiologic status of AAORCA patients to normal and resolve most morphologic abnormalities.

Citation: Katoh Y, et al. Direct Coronary Artery Reimplantation of Anomalous Aortic Origin of the Right Coronary Artery: A Case Report. Direct Coronary Artery Reimplantation of Anomalous Aortic Origin of the Right Coronary Artery: A Case Report. 2023; 15:e45205. doi: 10.7759/cureus.45205

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37842345/
