PMID: 37842865
Title: A novel surgical approach for feline stenotic nares: Bilateral wedge resection of the dorsal lateral nasal cartilage in seven cases.

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: Surgical correction of stenotic nares, one component of brachycephalic obstructive airway syndrome (BOAS), is not referenced as often in cats as it is in dogs. Similar to dogs, stenotic nares emerge as a significant contributor in the development of BOAS in cats. In this study, we propose that stenotic nares in brachycephalic cats arise from an elongated dorsal lateral nasal cartilage. The aim of this paper is to illustrate a novel surgical technique to alleviate stenosis-associated clinical signs by performing full-thickness bilateral wedge resection of the excessive cartilage.
ANIMALS: Seven cats that underwent rhinoplasty with full-thickness bilateral wedge resection along the dorsal lateral nasal cartilage between 2019 and 2022 at Pan-Asia Veterinary Clinic in Taipei, Taiwan.
METHODS: Clinical data of all cats included in the study were retrospectively reviewed. Surgical procedures were recorded. A full-thickness bilateral wedge resection was made along the dorsal lateral nasal cartilage adjacent to the non-hairy area. The full-thickness wedge resection was then apposed and closed, resulting in the abduction of the wing of the nostrils. Postoperative outcomes were evaluated according to follow-up sessions by the authors, and an owner survey was conducted at least 6 months post-surgery.
RESULTS: All cats included in this study had a favourable outcome with no complications reported following surgery. The degree of nostril stenosis was improved, and relapse of clinical signs was not reported. Overall, the quality of life of cats that underwent rhinoplasty was significantly improved.
CLINICAL RELEVANCE: The results support that the innovative procedure described in this study is highly promising and holds great potential in restoring quality of life and halting disease progression of cats with BOAS.

Citation: Chen YC and Chang YS. A novel surgical approach for feline stenotic nares: Bilateral wedge resection of the dorsal lateral nasal cartilage in seven cases. A novel surgical approach for feline stenotic nares: Bilateral wedge resection of the dorsal lateral nasal cartilage in seven cases. 2023; 9:2430-2437. doi: 10.1002/vms3.1302

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37842865/
