PMID: 37849280
Title: Performance of BeBack Crossing Catheter in Chronic Total Occlusion in Patients With Chronic Limb-Threatening Ischemia: A Single-Center Experience.

Abstract: PURPOSE: To describe a single-center experience in the treatment of chronic limb-threatening ischemia (CLTI) with the application of BeBack catheter (Bentley InnoMed, Germany) in patients with arterial chronic total occlusion (CTO).
MATERIALS AND METHODS: A retrospective review of patients who underwent limb revascularizations using the BeBack catheter between 2015 and 2022. All patients had an initial failed attempt using a traditional guidewire and catheter technique. Technical success was considered whenever a successful re-entry or lesion crossing using the study device was achieved. Procedural success was defined as recanalization of the occluded artery with residual stenosis of less than 30%, and improvement in ankle-brachial index (ABI) after 24 hours. A Rutherford score was assigned to each limb and affected anatomical segments and lesion length were documented. Procedural access sites and complications were noted.
RESULTS: The study included 72 patients who underwent 78 procedures using the BeBack crossing catheter. Procedural success was achieved in 91% of cases, with a technical success rate of 92.3%. The most frequently involved occluded segments were the femoral and popliteal arteries. The average ABI improved from 0.59 to 0.95 after the procedure. The most used access site was the contralateral femoral, and the BeBack catheter was employed on 85 occasions. Only 1 patient suffered a severe immediate adverse effect, and during the 30-day follow-up period, 2 patients needed reintervention. Unfortunately, 3 patients died during the follow-up period.
CONCLUSION: The BeBack catheter offers a viable option for the treatment of patients with chronic total occlusion, with high procedural success and a low complication rate.
CLINICAL IMPACT: The BeBack catheter presents a notable advancement for clinicians managing chronic limb-threatening ischemia (CLTI) and arterial chronic total occlusion (CTO), showcasing over 90% procedural and technical success rates in this study. Its adept ability to navigate and recanalize occluded segments provides a robust alternative, especially when traditional techniques falter. This innovation may chane clinical strategies in vascular interventions, offering an efficient and reliable option, thereby potentially enhancing patient outcomes in limb revascularizations.

Citation: Cohen I, et al. Performance of BeBack Crossing Catheter in Chronic Total Occlusion in Patients With Chronic Limb-Threatening Ischemia: A Single-Center Experience. Performance of BeBack Crossing Catheter in Chronic Total Occlusion in Patients With Chronic Limb-Threatening Ischemia: A Single-Center Experience. 2023; (unknown volume):15266028231204264. doi: 10.1177/15266028231204264

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37849280/
