PMID: 37842450
Title: Recurrent Multifocal Embolic Strokes in a 50-Year-Old Male: Unmasking Occult Squamous Cell Carcinoma.

Abstract: Recurrent cryptogenic embolic strokes pose a diagnostic challenge, often necessitating an extensive evaluation to determine the underlying cause. Cancer-related stroke is a frequently overlooked etiology, accounting for a substantial proportion of cryptogenic strokes. This case study underscores the importance of considering occult malignancies in patients with recurrent strokes of unknown origin and emphasizes the need for a comprehensive diagnostic workup to detect hidden malignancies. A 50-year-old male with a complex medical history presented with expressive aphasia and blurred vision resembling previous stroke episodes. Neurological examinations revealed right hemianopsia, paraphasia, and abnormal coordination. Neuroimaging studies showed multiple chronic infarctions, a large hemorrhagic infarction in the left posterior cerebral artery territory, and a small acute-to-subacute left parietal infarction. Due to the time of presentation and the presence of hemorrhagic transformation, the patient did not meet the criteria for intravenous tissue plasminogen activator administration. Given the recurrent nature of the strokes, an extensive evaluation was initiated to determine the underlying cause. Vascular imaging, including magnetic resonance angiography (MRA) of the head and neck and a CT angiogram, showed no significant stenosis. Vasculitis workup and cardiac evaluation yielded negative results. The blood workup was notable for elevated D-dimer levels. The involvement of multiple vascular territories and recurrent stroke despite adequate treatment and the absence of traditional risk factors for stroke raised a high clinical suspicion of occult malignancy. Further investigations led to the diagnosis of locally advanced squamous cell carcinoma (P16+), metastatic to the right neck lymph nodes (cTxN3M0). Although the primary source of cancer could not be identified, the P16+ status suggests the right tonsil or base of the tongue as the probable origin. Anticoagulation therapy was initiated, and the patient was scheduled for chemoradiation therapy. Although routine cancer investigation is not justified in ischemic strokes, the possibility of an occult malignancy should be considered in the presence of multifocal infarctions across different vascular territories with elevated D-dimer levels, particularly when traditional risk factors have been ruled out. A detailed physical exam can help localize the malignancy and early identification of occult malignancies can guide appropriate management strategies and help prevent future strokes. Further clinical trials are needed to establish optimal therapeutic approaches for preventing stroke recurrence in cancer-related strokes.

Citation: Prabakar D, et al. Recurrent Multifocal Embolic Strokes in a 50-Year-Old Male: Unmasking Occult Squamous Cell Carcinoma. Recurrent Multifocal Embolic Strokes in a 50-Year-Old Male: Unmasking Occult Squamous Cell Carcinoma. 2023; 15:e45091. doi: 10.7759/cureus.45091

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37842450/
