PMID: 37844384
Title: Angioplasty of the inferior vena cava with a bovine pericardial patch by the modified open-chest dorsal approach for Budd-Chiari syndrome: A case report.

Abstract: INTRODUCTION AND IMPORTANCE: Surgical treatment of Budd-Chiari syndrome (BCS) includes endovenectomy followed by angioplasty of the inferior vena cava (IVC). Herein, we report a case of surgery using an open-chest approach in a patient with BCS. We modified the technique reported by Kuniyoshi et al. CASE PRESENTATION: A 45-year-old male, was diagnosed with BCS and referred to our hospital. We used an open-chest approach to remove stenosis in the IVC and angioplasty with a bovine pericardial patch. Endovenectomy and angioplasty were performed by clamping the stenosis above and below it with Pringle's clamping under extracorporeal circulation. The patient is currently undergoing outpatient follow-up 14 months after the surgery, and his liver function and blood test results were normal, with no symptoms.
CLINICAL DISCUSSION: The main advantage of this technique is that the liver is not mobilized from the diaphragm, which allows for the preservation of collateral blood flow between the diaphragm and liver, reducing the amount of intraoperative blood loss and damage to the liver parenchyma due to intraoperative congestion. In addition, no mobilization of the liver from the diaphragm will prevent future surgical difficulties due to adhesions during total hepatectomy when liver transplantation becomes necessary.
CONCLUSION: The techniques described in this article include procedures that cardiovascular surgeons usually perform such as thoracotomy, pericardiotomy, and extracorporeal circulation. Collaborative work by hepatobiliary surgeons and cardiovascular surgeons can achieve successful outcomes with this procedure in patients with BCS.

Citation: Soyama A, et al. Angioplasty of the inferior vena cava with a bovine pericardial patch by the modified open-chest dorsal approach for Budd-Chiari syndrome: A case report. Angioplasty of the inferior vena cava with a bovine pericardial patch by the modified open-chest dorsal approach for Budd-Chiari syndrome: A case report. 2023; 112:108946. doi: 10.1016/j.ijscr.2023.108946

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37844384/
