PMID: 37841993
Title: The Utility of Invengenx® Bovine Patch for Right Ventricular Outflow Tract (RVOT) Reconstruction and Augmentation in the Surgical Management of Tetralogy of Fallot (TOF): A Contemporary Study and Review of the Literature.

Abstract: Background and objective Complex congenital heart diseases (CHDs), such as the tetralogy of Fallot (TOF), often warrant reconstruction and augmentation of the right ventricular outflow tract (RVOT). This procedure requires the use of both synthetic and natural materials. However, finding the ideal material for tissue implants can be challenging. Biological materials often face issues such as tissue degeneration, calcium deposition, antigenicity, rejection, shrinkage, and fibrosis. These issues can lead to complications such as stenosis and insufficiency, potentially requiring early reoperations. In light of this, this study aimed to investigate the effectiveness of the Invengenx® bovine patch for RVOT reconstruction and augmentation. Methods This was a retrospective observational study conducted among eight children who underwent TOF correction cardiac surgery. Their demographic and clinical characteristics, intraoperative findings, and postoperative follow-up results at six months were collected from the hospital patient database. Results There were no deaths or complications in this study. We observed a significant reduction in the gradient across the pulmonary valve and the outflow tract at six months post-procedure. The analysis demonstrated that the Invengenx® bovine patch was successful and did not lead to any complications. Conclusions This study demonstrates the safety and efficacy of this engineered bovine pericardial patch (Invengenx®) as a cardiovascular substitute for surgical repair of both simple and more complex congenital cardiac defects.

Citation: Bhende VV, et al. The Utility of Invengenx® Bovine Patch for Right Ventricular Outflow Tract (RVOT) Reconstruction and Augmentation in the Surgical Management of Tetralogy of Fallot (TOF): A Contemporary Study and Review of the Literature. The Utility of Invengenx® Bovine Patch for Right Ventricular Outflow Tract (RVOT) Reconstruction and Augmentation in the Surgical Management of Tetralogy of Fallot (TOF): A Contemporary Study and Review of the Literature. 2023; 15:e46882. doi: 10.7759/cureus.46882

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37841993/
