PMID: 37847770
Title: Impact of Calcium Eccentricity on the Safety and Effectiveness of Coronary Intravascular Lithotripsy: Pooled Analysis From the Disrupt CAD Studies.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Coronary intravascular lithotripsy (IVL) safely facilitates successful stent implantation in severely calcified lesions. This analysis sought to determine the relative impact of lesion calcium eccentricity on the safety and effectiveness of IVL using high-resolution optical coherence tomography imaging.
METHODS: Individual patient-level data (n=262) were pooled from 4 distinct international prospective studies (Disrupt CAD I, II, III, and IV) and analyzed by an independent optical coherence tomography core laboratory. IVL performance in eccentric versus concentric calcification was analyzed by dividing calcified lesions into quartiles (≤180° [most eccentric], 181°-270°, 271°-359°, and 360° [concentric]) by maximum continuous calcium arc.
RESULTS: In the 230 patients with clear imaging field on optical coherence tomography, there were no differences in preprocedure minimum lumen area, diameter stenosis, or maximum calcium thickness. The calcium length and volume index increased progressively with increasing mean and maximum continuous calcium arc (ie, concentricity). Conversely, the minimum calcium thickness decreased progressively with increasing concentricity. Post-procedure, the number of calcium fractures, fracture depth, and fracture width increased with increasing concentricity, with a 4-fold increase in the number of fractures in lesions with 360° of calcium arc compared with ≤180°. This increase in IVL-induced calcium fracture with increasing calcium burden and concentricity facilitated stent expansion and luminal gain such that there were no significant differences across quartiles.
CONCLUSIONS: IVL induced calcium fractures proportional to the magnitude of coronary artery calcium, including in eccentric calcium, leading to consistent improvements in stent expansion and luminal gain in both eccentric and concentric calcified coronary lesions.

Citation: Ali ZA, et al. Impact of Calcium Eccentricity on the Safety and Effectiveness of Coronary Intravascular Lithotripsy: Pooled Analysis From the Disrupt CAD Studies. Impact of Calcium Eccentricity on the Safety and Effectiveness of Coronary Intravascular Lithotripsy: Pooled Analysis From the Disrupt CAD Studies. 2023; 16:e012898. doi: 10.1161/CIRCINTERVENTIONS.123.012898

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37847770/
