PMID: 37856406
Title: First United States multicenter experience with the new-generation FRED X surface-modified flow diversion stent: feasibility, safety, and short-term efficacy.

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: Flow diversion created a paradigm shift in the treatment of intracranial aneurysms. The new flow redirection endoluminal device with X technology (FRED X) is the latest update of the recent Food and Drug Administration-approved FRED. The FRED X is engineered to reduce material thrombogenicity and enhance vessel healing. In this study, the authors aimed to evaluate the feasibility and early safety and efficacy of the new FRED X.
METHODS: The authors retrospectively collected and analyzed data from patients who had undergone flow diversion with the new FRED X at four tertiary cerebrovascular centers in the United States from February 2022 through July 2022.
RESULTS: Forty-four patients with 45 aneurysms treated using 46 devices comprised the overall study cohort and were divided into two groups: 39 patients with unruptured aneurysms and 5 patients with ruptured aneurysms. The mean patient age was 57.7 ± 9.1 years, and most patients were female (84%). Ninety-one percent of the aneurysms were saccular, with the majority (93%) located in the anterior circulation, specifically the posterior communicating (27%) and carotid ophthalmic (27%) territories. The mean maximum aneurysm diameter was 5.6 ± 4.6 mm, and 20% of the lesions had been previously treated. The mean procedure time was 61.6 minutes, with a mean cumulative fluoroscopy time of 24.6 minutes. Additionally, 7% of the lesions received adjunct treatment. Stent placement was successful in 100% of cases, achieving good wall apposition and complete neck coverage. Further, immediate aneurysm contrast stasis > 90% was observed in 61% of cases. Symptomatic postoperative complications occurred in 3 patients in the unruptured cohort and 1 patient in the ruptured cohort. All patients in the study were discharged on dual antiplatelet regimens with a modified Rankin Scale score of 0. At 6 months after treatment, 89% of cases had adequate occlusion, with < 6% of cases having asymptomatic in-stent stenosis. All patients had excellent functional outcomes.
CONCLUSIONS: FRED X for the treatment of an intracranial aneurysm is technically feasible alone or in conjunction with intrasaccular embolization. In addition, the study results showed very promising early safety and efficacy. Follow-up studies should establish the long-term safety and efficacy profiles of this new stent.

Citation: Abbas R, et al. First United States multicenter experience with the new-generation FRED X surface-modified flow diversion stent: feasibility, safety, and short-term efficacy. First United States multicenter experience with the new-generation FRED X surface-modified flow diversion stent: feasibility, safety, and short-term efficacy. 2024; 140:1054-1063. doi: 10.3171/2023.7.JNS23966

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37856406/
