PMID: 37854964
Title: Complex, high-risk, and indicated percutaneous coronary angioplasty in essentially calcified stented coronary lesions using excimer laser coronary atherectomy with contrast mix injection.

Abstract: INTRODUCTION: Complex, coronary stenosis remains a technical challenge that may be responsible for in-stent restenosis and vessel thrombosis. Here we investigated the efficacy and safety of excimer laser coronary atherectomy (ELCA) with contrast mix injection for improving vessel wall stent apposition in undilatable, mostly calcified lesions.
AIM: To assess ELCA with contrast mix injection in complex, stented, calcified coronary lesions.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: This prospective single-center observational study enrolled 52 consecutive patients (73 lesions), with suboptimal stents implanted in de novo lesions and lesions requiring in-stent restenosis (ISR) due to stent underexpansion using all available means to achieve an optimal result. Patients presenting with ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction were excluded. All patients underwent coronary angiography 6 months after ELCA with intravascular ultrasound or optical coherence tomography study. We used contrast media mixed with saline (25-75%) to supply maximum laser energy output when a standard approach was unsuccessful. Procedural success was defined as relative stent expansion of > 80% minimal stent area (MSA) divided by average reference lumen area.
RESULTS: Procedural success was achieved in all cases. The cross-sectional area measured in treated segment improved significantly from 2.9 (0.72) mm2 to 7.3 (0.79) mm2 after ELCA. The in-hospital device-oriented major adverse cardiac event (DOCE) rate was 9.6%. No vessel perforation occurred during ELCA. After 6 months, the DOCE rate was 13.4%, while the rate of target lesion revascularization (TLR) was 8.2%.
CONCLUSIONS: This registry confirms the efficacy and safety of ELCA with contrast mix injection as a possible approach for stent expansion/ISR in failed PCI.

Citation: Wacinski P, et al. Complex, high-risk, and indicated percutaneous coronary angioplasty in essentially calcified stented coronary lesions using excimer laser coronary atherectomy with contrast mix injection. Complex, high-risk, and indicated percutaneous coronary angioplasty in essentially calcified stented coronary lesions using excimer laser coronary atherectomy with contrast mix injection. 2023; 19:209-216. doi: 10.5114/aic.2023.131473

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37854964/
