PMID: 37854958
Title: A comparison of neurological event and mortality rates between transcatheter aortic valve implantation and surgical aortic valve replacement.

Abstract: INTRODUCTION: Transcatheter aortic valve implantation (TAVI) is the treatment of choice for patients with symptomatic severe aortic stenosis.
AIM: To evaluate the neurological event and mortality rates of TAVI in comparison with those of surgical aortic valve replacement (SAVR).
MATERIAL AND METHODS: A systematic literature search identified pertinent full-text journal articles published from 2000 to 2022 that were taken as the study materials.
RESULTS: Patients were at the age of 79.3 ±2.8 years and 79.9 ±2.9 years at the time of intervention/open surgery in the TAVI and SAVR groups, respectively. Patients' age and preoperative comorbidity rates were similar in both groups. A self-expanding valve prosthesis and a percutaneous transfemoral route were the most commonly used in patients receiving TAVI. The duration of the procedure and the hospital stay were much shorter, and the number of transfused blood units was much lower in the TAVI group than in the SAVR group. No significant intergroup difference was found in the prevalence of postoperative stroke, 1-month all-cause mortality, and 1-month and 1-year cardiovascular mortality rates. However, 1-year all-cause mortality was much lower in the TAVI than the SAVR group. The subgroups of risk stratification showed better outcomes for non-high-risk patients compared with high-risk patients.
CONCLUSIONS: Irrespective of other postoperative complications of TAVI, this study emphasizes the postoperative major neurological events and mortality. TAVI appears to be superior to SAVR with regard to 1-year all-cause mortality. TAVI is thus recommended for elderly patients with symptomatic severe aortic stenosis at very high surgical risk contraindicated for SAVR.

Citation: Yuan SM and Yuan AH. A comparison of neurological event and mortality rates between transcatheter aortic valve implantation and surgical aortic valve replacement. A comparison of neurological event and mortality rates between transcatheter aortic valve implantation and surgical aortic valve replacement. 2023; 19:202-208. doi: 10.5114/aic.2023.131472

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37854958/
