PMID: 37854961
Title: Popliteal access for endovascular procedures in femoropopliteal artery occlusive disease.

Abstract: INTRODUCTION: Even though it has been reported that femoropopliteal artery endovascular revascularization is often performed with antegrade femoral artery interventions, which are technically relatively challenging, having the advantage of better control, it has also been reported that recanalization failure may occur in approximately 20% of patients and some materials have been developed for this reason.
AIM: To evaluate the safety of retrograde popliteal artery intervention and our procedural success rate for symptomatic femoropopliteal artery occlusive disease.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: A total of 95 endovascular revascularization procedures were performed for treating symptomatic occlusive peripheral artery disease in the study period. Inclusion criteria were defined as patients who underwent endovascular revascularization procedures for symptomatic femoropopliteal artery occlusive disease. Patients who underwent a percutaneous endovascular procedure for iliac artery or below-knee arterial occlusive disease in the same session and patients who had previously undergone peripheral arterial bypass grafting or endovascular treatment for existing femoropopliteal artery disease were excluded.
RESULTS: We evaluated 45 peripheral endovascular procedures performed on 39 patients with a mean age of 62.49 ±11.38 years in our hospital for chronic femoropopliteal artery occlusive disease. Twelve (26.7%) of the endovascular treatment procedures were performed with retrograde access through the popliteal artery (Group 2). In neither group were any complications of arterial rupture, distal embolism, early thrombosis, or pseudoaneurysms observed.
CONCLUSIONS: We are of the opinion that the retrograde popliteal artery technique is an effective and safe intervention option in endovascular revascularization, particularly in the revascularization of the long segment and complex femoropopliteal artery occlusions.

Citation: Yilmaz S, et al. Popliteal access for endovascular procedures in femoropopliteal artery occlusive disease. Popliteal access for endovascular procedures in femoropopliteal artery occlusive disease. 2023; 19:277-283. doi: 10.5114/aic.2023.131482

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37854961/
