PMID: 37855986
Title: Endoscopic Stricturoplasty with Linear Stapler: An Efficient Alternative for the Refractory Rectal Anastomotic Stricture.

Abstract: INTRODUCTION: Symptomatic anastomotic stricture is a rare but major complication after left-sided colorectal surgery. Hydraulic balloon dilatation is the first-line treatment in cases where the complication occurs, but 20% of patients present with refractory strictures after multiple sessions. Endoscopic stricturoplasty with the use of a linear stapler is a novel therapeutic alternative for those difficult cases.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: We identified all patients in our department who underwent endoscopic stricturoplasty with a linear stapler between 2004 and 2022. The technical, periinterventional, and follow-up data of the patients were retrospectively analyzed.
RESULTS: We identified nine patients who fulfilled our inclusion criteria. The procedure was technically possible in eight cases, whereas in one case, the anatomy of the anastomosis did not allow for a correct placement of the stapler. All patients with a technically successful procedure were relieved from their symptoms and could have their ostomy reversed. There was no periprocedural morbidity and mortality. Two patients presented with a recurrent stricture eight and 26 months after the initial stricturoplasty, and the procedure was successfully repeated in both cases.
CONCLUSIONS: Endoscopic stricturoplasty is a feasible, safe, and minimally invasive alternative for the treatment of refractory anastomotic strictures in the distal colon and rectum for patients with a suitable anatomy.

Citation: Kouladouros K, et al. Endoscopic Stricturoplasty with Linear Stapler: An Efficient Alternative for the Refractory Rectal Anastomotic Stricture. Endoscopic Stricturoplasty with Linear Stapler: An Efficient Alternative for the Refractory Rectal Anastomotic Stricture. 2023; 68:4432-4438. doi: 10.1007/s10620-023-08156-0

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37855986/
