PMID: 37860683
Title: Transcatheter mitral valve implantation using the Tendyne valve in a patient with prior transcatheter aortic valve implantation: a case report.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: The presence of aortic and mitral disease in a patient who is not a suitable candidate for surgical correction poses significant challenges in the diagnostic workup as well as management plans. Percutaneous treatment can be staged to fix the aortic valve with transcatheter aortic valve implantation (TAVI) as a first step, followed by reassessment and percutaneous correction of mitral regurgitation (MR).
CASE SUMMARY: A 65-year-old female with multiple co-morbidities presented with acute coronary syndrome and heart failure. She was diagnosed with three-vessel coronary artery disease and degenerative low-flow low-gradient severe aortic stenosis, along with severe degenerative MR with a left ventricular ejection fraction of 35%. Because of the high surgical risk, she underwent multi-vessel percutaneous coronary intervention with stenting. Transcatheter aortic valve implantation was done as a staged procedure, which partially improved her symptoms. Mitral regurgitation was not suitable for percutaneous mitral valve edge-to-edge repair. After a discussion by the heart team, she underwent transcatheter mitral valve implantation, for which the Tendyne mitral valve (Tendyne™; Abbott) was used through a transapical approach. There was no paravalvular leak, and the mean gradient across the valve was 2 mmHg. She was symptomatically better at follow-up and an echocardiogram showed a normally functioning aortic valve and Tendyne mitral valves.
DISCUSSION: Transapical transcatheter mitral valve implantation using the Tendyne valve is a feasible option for patients with prior TAVI. This can be considered an alternative treatment for MR in patients who are not suitable for edge-to-edge mitral repair.

Citation: Shah MA, et al. Transcatheter mitral valve implantation using the Tendyne valve in a patient with prior transcatheter aortic valve implantation: a case report. Transcatheter mitral valve implantation using the Tendyne valve in a patient with prior transcatheter aortic valve implantation: a case report. 2023; 7:ytad476. doi: 10.1093/ehjcr/ytad476

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37860683/
