PMID: 37866650
Title: Minimally Invasive Management of Posterior Urethral Stricture/Stenosis with DVIU and Mitomycin C Injection.

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: To demonstrate a technique for minimally invasive endoscopic management of posterior urethral strictures, including those at the bladder neck and vesicourethral anastomosis.
METHODS: Herein, we have included endoscopic video footage from 3 patients with posterior urethral strictures, including 1 at the bladder neck, 1 at the vesicourethral anastomosis, and 1 in the bulbomembranous urethra. In each patient, we perform a direct visualization internal urethrotomy (DVIU) with incisions at the 5 and 7 o'clock positions to widen the urethral lumen, followed by injection of 2 mg mitomycin C (MMC) in a total volume of 5 mL sterile water.
RESULTS: Herein, we describe our technique for the endoscopic management of posterior urethral strictures, including those in the prostatic urethra and bladder neck. MMC injection, in conjunction with traditional DVIU, adds minimally to the complexity and length of the procedure but may substantially improve long-term surgical outcomes.
CONCLUSION: Bladder outlet obstruction due to stenosis or stricture of the posterior urethra is a common urologic diagnosis whose etiology can often be traced to prior urethral manipulation or iatrogenic trauma. While Americal Urological Assicuation (AUA) guidelines state that dilation or direct visualization internal urethrotomy (DVIU) should be offered for bulbar strictures measuring less than 2 cm in length, recent evidence suggests that DVIU with or without MMC injection may have utility in the management of bladder neck or vesicourethral anastomotic contractures. We have found that DVIU with subsequent MMC injection is a viable minimally invasive approach for the treatment of posterior urethral strictures. While more data are needed to better understand the long-term success rates of these procedures, this approach should be considered for patients with a bladder outlet obstruction secondary to a short stricture of the posterior urethra, bladder neck, or vesicourethral anastomosis.

Citation: Klein R, et al. Minimally Invasive Management of Posterior Urethral Stricture/Stenosis with DVIU and Mitomycin C Injection. Minimally Invasive Management of Posterior Urethral Stricture/Stenosis with DVIU and Mitomycin C Injection. 2024; 183:e317-e319. doi: 10.1016/j.urology.2023.10.006

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37866650/
