PMID: 37869904
Title: Kidney Intrinsic Mechanisms as Novel Targets in Renovascular Hypertension.

Abstract: Almost a hundred years have passed since obstruction of the renal artery has been recognized to raise blood pressure. By now chronic renovascular disease (RVD) due to renal artery stenosis is recognized as a major source of renovascular hypertension and renal disease. In some patients, RVD unaccompanied by noteworthy renal dysfunction or blood pressure elevation may be incidentally identified during peripheral angiography. Nevertheless, in others, RVD might present as a progressive disease associated with diffuse atherosclerosis, leading to loss of renal function, renovascular hypertension, hemodynamic compromise, and a magnified risk for cardiovascular morbidity and mortality. Atherosclerotic RVD leads to renal atrophy, inflammation, and hypoxia but represents a potentially treatable cause of chronic renal failure because until severe fibrosis sets in the ischemic kidney, it retains a robust potential for vascular and tubular regeneration. This remarkable recovery capacity of the kidney begs for early diagnosis and treatment. However, accumulating evidence from both animal studies and randomized clinical trials has convincingly established the inadequate efficacy of renal artery revascularization to fully restore renal function or blood pressure control and has illuminated the potential of therapies targeted to the ischemic renal parenchyma to instigate renal regeneration. Some of the injurious mechanisms identified as potential therapeutic targets included oxidative stress, microvascular disease, inflammation, mitochondrial injury, and cellular senescence. This review recapitulates the intrinsic mechanisms that orchestrate renal damage and recovery in RVD and can be harnessed to introduce remedial opportunities.

Citation: Eirin A, et al. Kidney Intrinsic Mechanisms as Novel Targets in Renovascular Hypertension. Kidney Intrinsic Mechanisms as Novel Targets in Renovascular Hypertension. 2024; 81:206-217. doi: 10.1161/HYPERTENSIONAHA.123.21362

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37869904/
