PMID: 37862866
Title: AVDNet: Joint coronary artery and vein segmentation with topological consistency.

Abstract: Coronary CT angiography (CCTA) is an effective and non-invasive method for coronary artery disease diagnosis. Extracting an accurate coronary artery tree from CCTA image is essential for centerline extraction, plaque detection, and stenosis quantification. In practice, data quality varies. Sometimes, the arteries and veins have similar intensities and locate closely, which may confuse segmentation algorithms, even deep learning based ones, to obtain accurate arteries. However, it is not always feasible to re-scan the patient for better image quality. In this paper, we propose an artery and vein disentanglement network (AVDNet) for robust and accurate segmentation by incorporating the coronary vein into the segmentation task. This is the first work to segment coronary artery and vein at the same time. The AVDNet consists of an image based vessel recognition network (IVRN) and a topology based vessel refinement network (TVRN). IVRN learns to segment the arteries and veins, while TVRN learns to correct the segmentation errors based on topology consistency. We also design a novel inverse distance weighted dice (IDD) loss function to recover more thin vessel branches and preserve the vascular boundaries. Extensive experiments are conducted on a multi-center dataset of 700 patients. Quantitative and qualitative results demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed method by comparing it with state-of-the-art methods and different variants. Prediction results of the AVDNet on the Automated Segmentation of Coronary Artery Challenge dataset are avaliabel at https://github.com/WennyJJ/Coronary-Artery-Vein-Segmentation for follow-up research.

Citation: Wang W, et al. AVDNet: Joint coronary artery and vein segmentation with topological consistency. AVDNet: Joint coronary artery and vein segmentation with topological consistency. 2024; 91:102999. doi: 10.1016/j.media.2023.102999

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37862866/
