PMID: 37866928
Title: Evaluating Total Atherosclerosis Burden of Baroreceptor-Resident Arteries after Ischemic Cerebrovascular Disease for Identifying Patients with Heavy Coronary Atherosclerosis Burden.

Abstract: AIM: The carotid sinuses and aortic arch are baroreceptor-resident arteries (BRAs) and atherosclerosis-susceptible sites of brain-supplying arteries, which would impair baroreflex-mediated blood pressure (BP) regulation and prompt coronary atherosclerosis. We sought to determine the relationship between total atherosclerosis burden (TAB) of BRAs and coronary atherosclerosis burden (AB) in patients with ischemic cerebrovascular disease (ICVD) and explore the potential contribution of BP profiles to this relationship.
METHODS: In this cross-sectional analysis of patients with ICVD who simultaneously undertook computed tomography angiography and 24-hour ambulatory BP monitoring, TAB of BRAs was scored based on the atherosclerotic vessel circumference ratio of the carotid sinuses and aortic arch, while the ABs of the intracranial, cervical, aortic, and coronary arteries were scored based on stenosis severity and plaque complexity as routine.
RESULTS: Among the 230 patients analyzed, coronary AB was significantly correlated with TAB of BRAs, independently of, and more tightly than the ABs of the intracranial, cervical, and aortic arteries, and the stenosis- and complexity-based AB of BRA-located arteries (bilateral common and extracranial internal carotid arteries and aortic arch). Both coronary AB and TAB of BRAs were negatively associated with the night-to-day BP dipping ratios, which was quite different from the relationship between intracranial AB and 24-hour BP characteristics. These findings were also true for patients with ICVD without a history of coronary artery disease.
CONCLUSION: Evaluating TAB of BRAs might provide a new link between atherosclerosis of brain- and heart-supplying arteries, connected partially by BP circadian rhythm. It might facilitate identifying patients with ICVD with heavy coronary AB and comprehensively managing vascular risk.

Citation: Kong Q, et al. Evaluating Total Atherosclerosis Burden of Baroreceptor-Resident Arteries after Ischemic Cerebrovascular Disease for Identifying Patients with Heavy Coronary Atherosclerosis Burden. Evaluating Total Atherosclerosis Burden of Baroreceptor-Resident Arteries after Ischemic Cerebrovascular Disease for Identifying Patients with Heavy Coronary Atherosclerosis Burden. 2024; 31:429-443. doi: 10.5551/jat.64457

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37866928/
