PMID: 37863894
Title: Macrophage polarization and metabolism in atherosclerosis.

Abstract: Atherosclerosis is a chronic inflammatory disease characterized by the accumulation of fatty deposits in the inner walls of vessels. These plaques restrict blood flow and lead to complications such as heart attack or stroke. The development of atherosclerosis is influenced by a variety of factors, including age, genetics, lifestyle, and underlying health conditions such as high blood pressure or diabetes. Atherosclerotic plaques in stable form are characterized by slow growth, which leads to luminal stenosis, with low embolic potential or in unstable form, which contributes to high risk for thrombotic and embolic complications with rapid clinical onset. In this complex scenario of atherosclerosis, macrophages participate in the whole process, including the initiation, growth and eventually rupture and wound healing stages of artery plaque formation. Macrophages in plaques exhibit high heterogeneity and plasticity, which affect the evolving plaque microenvironment, e.g., leading to excessive lipid accumulation, cytokine hyperactivation, hypoxia, apoptosis and necroptosis. The metabolic and functional transitions of plaque macrophages in response to plaque microenvironmental factors not only influence ongoing and imminent inflammatory responses within the lesions but also directly dictate atherosclerotic progression or regression. In this review, we discuss the origin of macrophages within plaques, their phenotypic diversity, metabolic shifts, and fate and the roles they play in the dynamic progression of atherosclerosis. It also describes how macrophages interact with other plaque cells, particularly T cells. Ultimately, targeting pathways involved in macrophage polarization may lead to innovative and promising approaches for precision medicine. Further insights into the landscape and biological features of macrophages within atherosclerotic plaques may offer valuable information for optimizing future clinical treatment for atherosclerosis by targeting macrophages.

Citation: Hou P, et al. Macrophage polarization and metabolism in atherosclerosis. Macrophage polarization and metabolism in atherosclerosis. 2023; 14:691. doi: 10.1038/s41419-023-06206-z

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37863894/
