PMID: 37860790
Title: Cervical Column and Cord and Column Responses in Whiplash With Stenosis: A Finite Element Modeling Study.

Abstract: Spine degeneration is a normal aging process. It may lead to stenotic spines that may have implications for pain and quality of life. The diagnosis is based on clinical symptomatology and imaging. Magnetic resonance images often reveal the nature and degree of stenosis of the spine. Stenosis is concerning to clinicians and patients because of the decreased space in the spinal canal and potential for elevated risk of cord and/or osteoligamentous spinal column injuries. Numerous finite element models of the cervical spine have been developed to study the biomechanics of the osteoligamentous column such as range of motion and vertebral stress; however, spinal cord modeling is often ignored. The objective of this study was to determine the external column and internal cord and disc responses of stenotic spines using finite element modeling. A validated model of the subaxial spinal column was used. The osteoligamentous column was modified to include the spinal cord. Mild, moderate, and severe degrees of stenosis commonly identified in civilian populations were simulated at C5-C6. The column-cord model was subjected to postero-anterior acceleration at T1. The range of motion, disc pressure, and cord stress-strain were obtained at the index and superior and inferior adjacent levels of the stenosis. The external metric representing the segmental motion was insensitive while the intrinsic disc and cord variables were more sensitive, and the index level was more affected by stenosis. These findings may influence surgical planning and patient education in personalized medicine.

Citation: Yoganandan N, et al. Cervical Column and Cord and Column Responses in Whiplash With Stenosis: A Finite Element Modeling Study. Cervical Column and Cord and Column Responses in Whiplash With Stenosis: A Finite Element Modeling Study. 2024; 7:021003. doi: 10.1115/1.4063250

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37860790/
