PMID: 37871624
Title: Incidence, severity and impact on functional outcome of persistent hypoperfusion despite large-vessel recanalization, a potential marker of impaired microvascular reperfusion: Systematic review of the clinical literature.

Abstract: The reported incidence of persistent hypoperfusion despite complete recanalization as surrogate for impaired microvascular reperfusion (IMR) has varied widely among clinical studies, possibly due to differences in i) definition of complete recanalization, with only recent Thrombolysis in Cerebral Infarction (TICI) grading schemes allowing distinction between complete (TICI3) and partial recanalization with distal occlusions (TICI2c); ii) operational definition of IMR; and iii) consideration of potential alternative causes for hypoperfusion, notably carotid stenosis, re-occlusion and post-thrombectomy hemorrhage. We performed a systematic review to identify clinical studies that carried out brain perfusion imaging within 72 hrs post-thrombectomy for anterior circulation stroke and reported hypoperfusion rates separately for TICI3 and TICI2c grades. Authors were contacted if this data was missing. We identified eight eligible articles, altogether reporting 636 patients. The incidence of IMR after complete recanalization (i.e., TICI3) tended to decrease with the number of considered alternative causes of hypoperfusion: range 12.5-42.9%, 0-31.6% and 0-9.1% in articles that considered none, two or all three causes, respectively. No study reported the impact of IMR on functional outcome separately for TICI-3 patients. Based on this systematic review, IMR in true complete recanalization appears relatively rare, and reported incidence highly depends on definition used and consideration of confounding factors.

Citation: Schiphorst AT, et al. Incidence, severity and impact on functional outcome of persistent hypoperfusion despite large-vessel recanalization, a potential marker of impaired microvascular reperfusion: Systematic review of the clinical literature. Incidence, severity and impact on functional outcome of persistent hypoperfusion despite large-vessel recanalization, a potential marker of impaired microvascular reperfusion: Systematic review of the clinical literature. 2024; 44:38-49. doi: 10.1177/0271678X231209069

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37871624/
