PMID: 37877943
Title: Predicting endoscopic third ventriculostomy success in pediatric shunt dysfunction: a monocentric retrospective case series of 70 consecutive children, systematic review, and meta-analysis.

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: The outcome of endoscopic third ventriculostomy (ETV) in children who had previously received shunts and who were experiencing shunt dysfunction is still discussed in terms of efficacy (success rate from 40% to 80%) and safety (0%-32.5% of complications). Reported predictive factors of secondary ETV failure are age, early onset of hydrocephalus, and prematurity. The best surgical strategy in the different subgroups of patients with shunt dysfunction is still debated. Therefore, the authors aimed to identify subgroups of patients in whom shunt treatment was associated with favorable outcome of ETV, to define the role of ETV in patients with global rostral midbrain dysfunction syndrome.
METHODS: This study was a monocentric retrospective case series and a meta-analysis of children who had previously received shunts and who underwent secondary ETV for shunt dysfunction between 2012 and 2022. Clinical and MRI features were examined, along with surgical outcome, etiology of hydrocephalus, and preoperative ETV Success Score. Univariate and multivariate analyses were performed to find predictors of outcome of secondary ETV. Youden's J index was calculated on age distribution to find an optimal age cutoff. Systematic review of the literature and a meta-analysis were performed according to the PRISMA statement.
RESULTS: Seventy consecutive patients were included. The overall success rate of secondary ETV was 63%. Primary obstructive hydrocephalus, age ≥ 36 months, and the presence of aqueductal obstruction were predictors of ETV success. Multivariate analysis found that age < 36 months, primary inflammatory hydrocephalus, and presence of fourth ventricular obstruction were associated with ETV failure. All patients with global rostral midbrain dysfunction syndrome experienced clinical and radiological improvement after ETV. The meta-analysis showed that postinflammatory etiology and age < 36 months were predictors of ETV failure.
CONCLUSIONS: ETV is safe and effective for children with obstructive hydrocephalus experiencing shunt dysfunction, notably in cases of primary obstructive hydrocephalus with aqueductal stenosis, and among children whose age was ≥ 36 months who had postinflammatory hydrocephalus.

Citation: Guida L, et al. Predicting endoscopic third ventriculostomy success in pediatric shunt dysfunction: a monocentric retrospective case series of 70 consecutive children, systematic review, and meta-analysis. Predicting endoscopic third ventriculostomy success in pediatric shunt dysfunction: a monocentric retrospective case series of 70 consecutive children, systematic review, and meta-analysis. 2023; 32:638-648. doi: 10.3171/2023.9.PEDS23208

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37877943/
