PMID: 37871401
Title: Acute phase supra-aortic intraluminal thrombus signal changes on magnetic resonance angiography: A case series: Intraluminal thrombus signal changes on MRA.

Abstract: BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES: Intraluminal thrombus (ILT) is a relatively rare cause of stroke. MRI/MRA is increasingly used for stroke patients eligible for acute treatment. Radiological ILT characteristics have never been studied systematically on MRA. We aimed to analyse signal changes and other radiological characteristics of ILT in the acute phase on MRA in a case series of ILT patients.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Consecutive stroke patients registered in our stroke database between January 2013 and September 2022 were screened for supra-aortic ILT on MRA, in whom MRA was the first supra-aortic vessel imaging performed. Twelve patients were included for analysis. Radiological analysis on MRA included ILT localisation, diameter of the free-floating ILT component, total ITL length, degree of stenosis caused by ILT, and ILT signal intensity.
RESULTS: Median age was 65 years and 92% were men. Median time interval between stroke onset and MRA was 0.5 days. Atherosclerosis was the underlying ILT aetiology in half of the patients. The most frequent ILT localisation was the internal carotid artery, always involving the C1 segment. Median ILT diameter was 4.35 mm, median length 20.9 mm, median stenosis 65%, and with a homogeneous hypointensity of the ILT in 67% and a mixed hypo-hyperintensity in 33% (with ILT showing central hyperintensity surrounded by peripheral hypointensity).
DISCUSSION: When observed on MRA, ILT showed a homogeneous hypointensity in two-thirds and a mixed hypo-hyperintensity in one third of patients. In future studies, follow-up MRA scans should be performed to analyse whether these signal changes are time-related or influenced by antithrombotic treatment for ILT.

Citation: Renard D, et al. Acute phase supra-aortic intraluminal thrombus signal changes on magnetic resonance angiography: A case series: Intraluminal thrombus signal changes on MRA. Acute phase supra-aortic intraluminal thrombus signal changes on magnetic resonance angiography: A case series: Intraluminal thrombus signal changes on MRA. 2023; 32:107435. doi: 10.1016/j.jstrokecerebrovasdis.2023.107435

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37871401/
