PMID: 37871710
Title: Design and Application of Comprehensive Management System For Patients with Chronic Aortic Valve Disease-A Perspective From West China Hospital.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Chronic aortic valve disease (AVD) is a prevalent age-related health issue. Current guidelines recommend transthoracic echocardiography as the method of detection. Early screening is crucial to decrease mortality caused by aortic valve disease. However, a lack of consistent and effective guidelines for screening populations with asymptomatic AVD persists. Based on the comprehensive management system (CMS) for AVD developed by West China Hospital of Sichuan University, the objective of this study is to enhance the survival rate and overall quality of life for patients suffering from AVD by integrating early screening into the standardised diagnosis and treatment process.
METHODS: Three primary study cohorts were established: a community-based population screening cohort, an outpatient and medical examination population cohorts and an AVD inpatient cohorts. For each cohort, important data on clinical diagnosis and treatment were systematically collected and analyzed, evaluating the effectiveness of early screening for AVD.
RESULTS: The transthoracic echocardiography (TTE) findings of outpatients and medical examination population at West China Hospital of Sichuan University between 1st January 2020 and 31st December 2022 have been examined utilizing CVS. In total, 327,822 outpatients were investigated, identifying 986 patients with aortic stenosis (AS), 2,961 patients with aortic regurgitation (AR), and 549 patients with mixed AS and AR.
CONCLUSION: The AVD system for comprehensive management facilitates efficient screening, diagnosis and follow-up. In the future, the CVS will fully cover the West China hospital healthcare system and extend to the south-western region of China by leveraging a medical-driven role.

Citation: Wang Y, et al. Design and Application of Comprehensive Management System For Patients with Chronic Aortic Valve Disease-A Perspective From West China Hospital. Design and Application of Comprehensive Management System For Patients with Chronic Aortic Valve Disease-A Perspective From West China Hospital. 2024; 49:102169. doi: 10.1016/j.cpcardiol.2023.102169

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37871710/
