PMID: 37870717
Title: Separation of the glanular part of the urethral plate, mobilization of the distal part of the neourethra, and creation of the glanular groove: a new modification of second-stage Thiersch-Duplay urethroplasty in proximal hypospadias repair.

Abstract: PURPOSE: To evaluate the effect of separation of the glanular part of the urethral plate from the underlying glans penis with creation of a glanular groove for free accommodation of the neourethra as a new modification of Thiersch-Duplay urethroplasty in proximal hypospadias repair.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Between January 2016 and January 2022, 35 patients with proximal hypospadias underwent a modified Thiersch-Duplay two-stage procedure. The glanular portion of the urethral plate was either separated from the underlying glanular tissue or discarded if found scared with mobilization of the distal portion of the neourethra to reach the tip of the glans penis. In all patients, a few millimeter of glanular tissue is excised to create a glanular groove in which the neourethra is embedded freely.
RESULTS: 35 patients were involved in this study. The patient's age at the time of operation ranged from 18 months to 10 years (median 3.7 years). The mean follow-up period was 15.7 months (ranging from 12 to 18 months). Two patients developed urethrocutaneous fistula; while, none of the patients had meatal stenosis, urethral stricture, or meatal retraction. All patients have a slit-like meatus at the tip of the penis and a good cosmetic conical shape glans appearance.
CONCLUSION: We believe that in Thiersch-Duplay urethroplasty, separation of the urethral plat from the underlying glanular tissue and creation of good glandular groove to accommodate the neourethra is associated with adequate glanular closure and minimization of post-operative meatal stenosis, glanular dehiscence, and meatal retraction.

Citation: El-Darawany HM, et al. Separation of the glanular part of the urethral plate, mobilization of the distal part of the neourethra, and creation of the glanular groove: a new modification of second-stage Thiersch-Duplay urethroplasty in proximal hypospadias repair. Separation of the glanular part of the urethral plate, mobilization of the distal part of the neourethra, and creation of the glanular groove: a new modification of second-stage Thiersch-Duplay urethroplasty in proximal hypospadias repair. 2024; 56:813-818. doi: 10.1007/s11255-023-03833-5

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37870717/
