PMID: 37878753
Title: Oscillatory shear stress is elevated in patients with bicuspid aortic valve and aortic regurgitation: a 4D flow cardiovascular magnetic resonance cross-sectional study.

Abstract: AIMS: Patients with bicuspid aortic valve (BAV) and aortic regurgitation have higher rate of aortic complications compared with patients with BAV and stenosis, as well as BAV without valvular disease. Aortic regurgitation alters blood haemodynamics not only in systole but also during diastole. We therefore sought to investigate wall shear stress (WSS) during the whole cardiac cycle in BAV with aortic regurgitation.
METHODS AND RESULTS: Fifty-seven subjects that underwent 4D flow cardiovascular magnetic resonance imaging were included: 13 patients with BAVs without valve disease, 14 BAVs with aortic regurgitation, 15 BAVs with aortic stenosis, and 22 normal controls with tricuspid aortic valve. Peak and time averaged WSS in systole and diastole and the oscillatory shear index (OSI) in the ascending aorta were computed. Student's t-tests were used to compare values between the four groups where the data were normally distributed, and the non-parametric Wilcoxon rank sum tests were used otherwise. BAVs with regurgitation had similar peak and time averaged WSS compared with the patients with BAV without valve disease and with stenosis, and no regions of elevated WSS were found. BAV with aortic regurgitation had twice as high OSI as the other groups (P ≤ 0.001), and mainly in the outer mid-to-distal ascending aorta.
CONCLUSION: OSI uniquely characterizes altered WSS patterns in BAVs with aortic regurgitation, and thus could be a haemodynamic marker specific for this specific group that is at higher risk of aortic complications. Future longitudinal studies are needed to verify this hypothesis.

Citation: Trenti C, et al. Oscillatory shear stress is elevated in patients with bicuspid aortic valve and aortic regurgitation: a 4D flow cardiovascular magnetic resonance cross-sectional study. Oscillatory shear stress is elevated in patients with bicuspid aortic valve and aortic regurgitation: a 4D flow cardiovascular magnetic resonance cross-sectional study. 2024; 25:404-412. doi: 10.1093/ehjci/jead283

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37878753/
