PMID: 37885023
Title: Refractory drug-induced systemic small-vessel vasculitis with two varied extracutaneous manifestations: a case report and review of the literature.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Clopidogrel and ticagrelor are rarely reported to cause vasculitis via drug hypersensitivity reaction, largely mediated by T cells and immunoglobulin E (IgE). Despite therapeutic advances, the etiology of refractory vasculitides remains incompletely understood. Recently, (non)immunological mechanisms bypassing T cells and IgE have been proposed to explain resistance to standard immunosuppressants. Herein, we report a case of refractory drug-induced systemic small-vessel vasculitis with varied extracutaneous manifestations and incorporate multiple sources of data to provide detailed accounts of complex (non)immunological phenomena involved in this case. Study objectives are to provide an insight about rare presentations of commonly used drugs, upgrade the pathophysiological concepts of drug-induced vasculitis, raise need for further investigation to define causes and risk factors for refractory vasculitis, and discuss most of the current knowledge suggesting novel therapeutic approaches to treat this vasculitis. To our knowledge, this is the first case of the two flares of systemic small-vessel vasculitis in a single patient in response to clopidogrel and ticagrelor exposure, respectively. However, this report is limited by attribution/observer bias.
CASE PRESENTATION: We herein report a 24-year-old Caucasian male student with a medical history of mild seasonal allergic rhinoconjunctivitis, tension-type headaches, posttraumatic arterial stenosis, and previous exposure to ibuprofen, acetylsalicylic acid, and mRNA coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) vaccine who suffered largely from acute urticaria and dyspnea after 20 days of acetylsalicylic acid and clopidogrel introduction. A skin punch biopsy confirmed leukocytoclastic vasculitis. Serologic antibody testing, complement analysis, microbiologic testing, and cancer biomarkers revealed no abnormalities. Regarding the patient's medical history, both acetylsalicylic acid and clopidogrel were exchanged for ticagrelor. Furthermore, the addition of naproxen, cyclosporine, bilastine, prednisolone, and montelukast resulted in complete recovery. After 7 days, diarrhea and hematuria occurred. Urinalysis and computed tomography showed reversible proteinuria with gross hematuria and hypodense changes in kidney medulla, respectively, associated with discontinuation of ticagrelor and naproxen. In addition, the patient recovered completely without any immunosuppression up-titration.
CONCLUSIONS: This case highlights the role of clopidogrel and ticagrelor as possible triggering agents for systemic small-vessel vasculitis and offers an insight into novel therapeutic strategies for refractory vasculitides. Further research is needed to build on the findings of a current report.

Citation: Jovanovic M and Sabovic M. Refractory drug-induced systemic small-vessel vasculitis with two varied extracutaneous manifestations: a case report and review of the literature. Refractory drug-induced systemic small-vessel vasculitis with two varied extracutaneous manifestations: a case report and review of the literature. 2023; 17:470. doi: 10.1186/s13256-023-04174-8

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37885023/
