PMID: 37889562
Title: Deep Learning-Based Automated Labeling of Coronary Segments for Structured Reporting of Coronary Computed Tomography Angiography in Accordance With Society of Cardiovascular Computed Tomography Guidelines.

Abstract: PURPOSE: To evaluate a novel deep learning (DL)-based automated coronary labeling approach for structured reporting of coronary artery disease according to the guidelines of the Society of Cardiovascular Computed Tomography (CT) on coronary CT angiography (CCTA).
PATIENTS AND METHODS: A retrospective cohort of 104 patients (60.3 ± 10.7 y, 61% males) who had undergone prospectively electrocardiogram-synchronized CCTA were included. Coronary centerlines were automatically extracted, labeled, and validated by 2 expert readers according to Society of Cardiovascular CT guidelines. The DL algorithm was trained on 706 radiologist-annotated cases for the task of automatically labeling coronary artery centerlines. The architecture leverages tree-structured long short-term memory recurrent neural networks to capture the full topological information of the coronary trees by using a two-step approach: a bottom-up encoding step, followed by a top-down decoding step. The first module encodes each sub-tree into fixed-sized vector representations. The decoding module then selectively attends to the aggregated global context to perform the local assignation of labels. To assess the performance of the software, percentage overlap was calculated between the labels of the algorithm and the expert readers.
RESULTS: A total number of 1491 segments were identified. The artificial intelligence-based software approach yielded an average overlap of 94.4% compared with the expert readers' labels ranging from 87.1% for the posterior descending artery of the right coronary artery to 100% for the proximal segment of the right coronary artery. The average computational time was 0.5 seconds per case. The interreader overlap was 96.6%.
CONCLUSIONS: The presented fully automated DL-based coronary artery labeling algorithm provides fast and precise labeling of the coronary artery segments bearing the potential to improve automated structured reporting for CCTA.

Citation: Brandt V, et al. Deep Learning-Based Automated Labeling of Coronary Segments for Structured Reporting of Coronary Computed Tomography Angiography in Accordance With Society of Cardiovascular Computed Tomography Guidelines. Deep Learning-Based Automated Labeling of Coronary Segments for Structured Reporting of Coronary Computed Tomography Angiography in Accordance With Society of Cardiovascular Computed Tomography Guidelines. 2024; 39:93-100. doi: 10.1097/RTI.0000000000000753

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37889562/
