PMID: 37888049
Title: The Difference in Paraspinal Muscle Parameters and the Correlation with Health-Related Quality of Life among Healthy Individuals, Patients with Degenerative Lumbar Scoliosis and Lumbar Spinal Stenosis.

Abstract: (1) Background: Paraspinal muscle degeneration affects the quality of life in patients with degenerative lumbar scoliosis (DLS) and lumbar spinal stenosis (LSS). We aimed to describe the characteristics and differences in the paraspinal muscle parameters between patients with DLS and LSS and investigate their correlation with health-related quality of life (HRQOL). (2) Methods: There were forty-four participants in each group, namely the DLS, LSS, and healthy groups, who were matched at a ratio of 1:1 according to age, sex, and BMI. Differences in paraspinal muscle parameters among the three groups were compared using analysis of variance or the Mann-Whitney U test, and paraspinal muscle degeneration and HRQOL were analyzed using Spearman's correlation analysis. (3) Results: In the upper lumbar, the psoas (PS), quadratus lumborum (QL), and multifidus (MF) cross-sectional area (CSA) in the DLS group were smaller than those in the other groups. In the lower lumbar region, the CSA of the PS, QL, erector spinae (ES), and gross CSA (GCSA) of the MF in the DLS group were not significantly different from those in the LSS group. These values were lower than those observed in the healthy group. The lean muscle fat index (LMFI) of the MF and ES groups was higher than those of the other groups. Regarding HRQOL, we found that PS and MF CSA were strongly associated with HRQOL in healthy individuals; however, only MF was associated with HRQOL in the LSS group. (4): Conclusion: PS in the upper lumbar region and MF degeneration were more severe in patients with DLS than in those with LSS. ES degeneration was similar between the LSS and DLS groups. MF muscle atrophy in patients with LSS and asymmetric changes in the MF in DLS are associated with quality of life.

Citation: Liu Y, et al. The Difference in Paraspinal Muscle Parameters and the Correlation with Health-Related Quality of Life among Healthy Individuals, Patients with Degenerative Lumbar Scoliosis and Lumbar Spinal Stenosis. The Difference in Paraspinal Muscle Parameters and the Correlation with Health-Related Quality of Life among Healthy Individuals, Patients with Degenerative Lumbar Scoliosis and Lumbar Spinal Stenosis. 2023; 13:(unknown pages). doi: 10.3390/jpm13101438

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37888049/
