PMID: 37887859
Title: Potential Clinical Usefulness of Post-Valvular Contrast Densities to Determine the Severity of Aortic Valve Stenosis Using Computed Tomography.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Different methods are established for the changes in aortic valve stenosis with cardiac computed tomography angiography (CCTA), but the effect of the grade of stenosis on contrast densities around the valve has not been investigated.
AIMS/METHODS: Using the information from flow dynamics in cases of increased velocity through narrowed lumen, the hypothesis was formed that flow changes can alter the contrast densities in stenotic post-valvular regions, and the density changes might correlate with the grade of stenosis. Forty patients with severe aortic stenosis and fifteen with a normal aortic valve were enrolled. With echocardiography, the peak/mean transvalvular gradients, peak transvalvular velocity, and aortic valve opening area were obtained. With CCTA, densities 4-5 mm above the aortic valve; at the junction of the left, right, and noncoronary cusp to the annulus; at the middle level of the left, right, and noncoronary sinuses of Valsalva in the center and the lateral points; at the sinotubular junction; and 4 cm from the sinotubular junction at the midline were measured. First, a comparison of the densities between the normal and stenotic valve was performed, and then possible correlations between echocardiography and CCTA values were investigated in the stenotic group.
RESULTS: In all CCTA regions, significantly lower-density values were detected among stenotic valve patients compared to the normal aortic valve population. Additionally, in both groups, higher densities were measured in the peri-jet regions than in the lateral ones. Furthermore, a good correlation was found between the aortic valve opening area and the densities in almost all perivalvular areas. With regard to the densities at the junction of the non-coronary leaflet to the fibrotic annulus and at the most lateral point of the right sinus of Valsalva, a high level of correlation was found between all echocardiography and CCTA parameters. Lastly, with receiver operating characteristic curve measurements, area under the curve values were between 0.857 and 0.930.
CONCLUSION: Certain CCTA density values, especially 4-5mm above the valve opening, can serve as auxiliary information to echocardiography when the severity of aortic valve stenosis is unclear.

Citation: Racz AO, et al. Potential Clinical Usefulness of Post-Valvular Contrast Densities to Determine the Severity of Aortic Valve Stenosis Using Computed Tomography. Potential Clinical Usefulness of Post-Valvular Contrast Densities to Determine the Severity of Aortic Valve Stenosis Using Computed Tomography. 2023; 10:(unknown pages). doi: 10.3390/jcdd10100412

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37887859/
