PMID: 37886851
Title: Upregulated Cytoskeletal Proteins Promote Pathological Angiogenesis in Moyamoya Disease.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Moyamoya disease (MMD) is a rare progressive vascular disease that leads to intracranial internal carotid artery stenosis and eventual occlusion. However, its pathogenesis remains unclear. The purpose of this study is to explore the role of abnormally expressed proteins in the pathogenesis of MMD.
METHODS: Data-independent acquisition mass spectrometry identifies the differentially expressed proteins in MMD serum by detecting the serum from 60 patients with MMD and 20 health controls. The differentially expressed proteins were validated using enzyme linked immunosorbent assays. Immunofluorescence for superficial temporal artery and middle cerebral artery specimens was used to explore the morphological changes of vascular wall in MMD. In vitro experiments were used to explore the changes and mechanisms of differentially expressed proteins on endothelial cells.
RESULTS: Proteomic analysis showed that a total of 14 726 peptides and 1555 proteins were quantified by mass spectrometry data. FLNA (filamin A) and ZYX (zyxin) proteins were significantly higher in MMD serum compared with those in health controls (Log<sub>2</sub>FC &gt;2.9 and &gt;2.8, respectively). Immunofluorescence revealed an intimal hyperplasia in superficial temporal artery and middle cerebral artery specimens of MMD. FLNA and ZYX proteins increased the proportion of endothelial cells in S phase and promoted their proliferation, angiogenesis, and cytoskeleton enlargement. Mechanistic studies revealed that AKT (serine/threonine kinase)/GSK-3β (glycogen synthase kinase 3β)/β-catenin signaling pathway plays a major role in these FLNA- and ZYX-induced changes in endothelial cells.
CONCLUSIONS: This study provides proteomic data on a large sample size of MMD. The differential expression of FLNA and ZYX in patient with MMD and following in vitro experiments suggest that these upregulated proteins are related to the pathology of cerebrovascular intimal hyperplasia in MMD and are involved in MMD pathogenesis, with diagnostic and therapeutic ramifications.

Citation: He S, et al. Upregulated Cytoskeletal Proteins Promote Pathological Angiogenesis in Moyamoya Disease. Upregulated Cytoskeletal Proteins Promote Pathological Angiogenesis in Moyamoya Disease. 2023; 54:3153-3164. doi: 10.1161/STROKEAHA.123.044476

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37886851/
