PMID: 37890001
Title: Routine postaccess-closure angiography to detect vascular complications following transfemoral TAVR.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Vascular complications following transfemoral TAVR are associated with increased morbidity and mortality. Measures that may mitigate this risk are important.
AIM: To evaluate the utility of routine, access-vessel angiography post sheath-removal in the detection and management of complications in patients undergoing transcatheter aortic valve replacement (TAVR).
METHODS: This was a retrospective study of 512 consecutive patients who underwent transfemoral TAVR with routine post access-closure angiography from the radial artery. Rates of mild angiographically evident bleeding, bleeding requiring surgery/interventional-radiology, ischemia, 90-day access-site-related events, and major and minor vascular complications using Valve Academic Research Consortium 3 definitions were recorded.
RESULTS: Of 512 patients, digital subtraction angiography (DSA) was undertaken via the radial artery in 467 patients (91%). In the remaining patients (9%) DSA was either not attempted, due to concerns regarding kidney disease and contrast volume, or failed due to anatomical factors (aortic tortuosity/calcification). Significant chronic kidney disease was present at baseline in 72.4% of this cohort (stages III-IV or dialysis). Ninety-four percent of cases underwent TAVR using a balloon-expandable platform. Mild iliofemoral extravasation was observed in 7.7% of the DSA cases. These cases were managed by manual compression with none requiring any vascular intervention subsequently. Valve Academic Research Consortium 3 major and minor access-site-related complications were observed in 0.4% and 12.2%, respectively. Access-site-related bleeding and ischemic events requiring interventional-radiology or vascular-surgery were observed in 0.9% and 1.7% of the DSA cases, respectively. No new renal replacement therapy was needed in any of the DSA cases. Discharge to 90-day access-related complications was 0.8%.
CONCLUSIONS: Routine post access-closure angiography is feasible via the radial artery in patients undergoing transfemoral TAVR and appears safe. It facilitates early identification of complications and mitigates risk by enabling prompt action to be taken. Larger studies are needed to confirm these findings.

Citation: Savvoulidis P, et al. Routine postaccess-closure angiography to detect vascular complications following transfemoral TAVR. Routine postaccess-closure angiography to detect vascular complications following transfemoral TAVR. 2023; 102:1311-1316. doi: 10.1002/ccd.30894

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37890001/
