PMID: 37899870
Title: Airway management during unusual tracheal stenosis: A clinical feasibility trial.

Abstract: OBJECTIVES: Prolonged intubation is a known risk factor of LTS. LTS related to COVID-19 may result in a different phenotype: pronation affects the location of stenosis and COVID-19 pneumonia can decline lung mechanics. Therefore, airway management in these patients may carry unique challenges for both anesthesiologists and surgeons.This prospective observational feasibility trial aims to evaluate the use of a novel thin, cuffed, endotracheal tube (Tritube) in combination with flow-controlled ventilation (FCV) in the management of patients with COVID-19-related LTS undergoing laryngeal surgery.
METHODS: 20 patients suffering from COVID-19-related LTS, as diagnosed by CT, requiring endolaryngeal surgery, with or without CO<sub>2</sub> laser, were included. Ultrathin endotracheal tube Tritube, together with FCV was used for airway management and ventilation. Feasibility, ventilation efficiency, and surgical exposure were evaluated.
RESULTS: Median duration of mechanical ventilation during their ICU stay was 17 days, (range, 7-27), and all patients had been pronated. In 18/20 patients, endoscopic diagnosis confirmed the initial CT diagnosis: posterior subglottic stenosis. Surgeons' satisfaction on the view was rated 9 out of 10 (range 7-10), where 0 was the worst view and 10 was the best view. Hemodynamic and respiratory variables were within the normal clinical range during the surgical procedure. One patient that had a SpO2 of 90% before induction of anesthesia, a temporal drop to 89%, caused meeting the predefined requirement of "respiratory complication."
CONCLUSION: This study demonstrates the feasibility of using Tritube with FCV in patients with relatively unusual subglottic posterior location tracheal stenosis, undergoing laryngotracheal surgery. Tritube provides a good surgical field and FCV provides highly adequate ventilation especially in patients with compromised lung mechanics.
LEVEL OF EVIDENCE: IV, non-comparitive prospective clinical trial with 20 patients.

Citation: Altun D, et al. Airway management during unusual tracheal stenosis: A clinical feasibility trial. Airway management during unusual tracheal stenosis: A clinical feasibility trial. 2023; 8:1169-1177. doi: 10.1002/lio2.1151

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37899870/
