PMID: 37908900
Title: Gold-Induced Cytokine (GOLDIC®) Therapy in the Management of Knee Osteoarthritis: An Observational Study.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Current treatment modalities for knee osteoarthritis (OA) provide symptomatic cures rather than reversing the pathology in the long term. An innovative regenerative therapy called "Gold Induced Cytokines" (GOLDIC®) was explored in various musculoskeletal diseases such as knee OA, lumbar canal stenosis, Achilles tendinopathy, and plantar fasciitis. In this study, we explored the safety and functional outcome of GOLDIC® injections in knee OA (KL grades 3 and 4) with visual analog scale (VAS) and Western Ontario and McMaster Universities Osteoarthritis Index (WOMAC) scores.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: A multi-center open-label observational study was carried out after screening the cases according to the inclusion criteria. A total of 106 knees in 65 patients were enrolled for four doses of 4 ml of ultrasound-guided intra-articular GOLDIC® injections every three to six days. All cases were followed up with pre- and post-VAS and WOMAC scores at an interval of four weeks, three months, six months, and one year, and the complications (including severe adverse reactions) were monitored throughout.
RESULTS: In this study, 66.1% had grade 4 OA knee (without gross varus or subluxation) and 33.8% had grade 3 OA knee. All the participants underwent the GOLDIC® treatment modality. A statistically significant difference was observed in pre- and post-procedural follow-up in VAS and WOMAC scores at one-year follow-up. There were no recorded severe adverse reactions during the entire study period. Three patients failed the treatment in one year.
CONCLUSION: The GOLDIC® procedure shows great promise as a novel method for treating moderate to severe OA of the knee, both in terms of pain and functional outcome without any severe adverse reactions, in a sustained manner and is worth exploring as a long-term treatment option.

Citation: Tulpule S, et al. Gold-Induced Cytokine (GOLDIC®) Therapy in the Management of Knee Osteoarthritis: An Observational Study. Gold-Induced Cytokine (GOLDIC®) Therapy in the Management of Knee Osteoarthritis: An Observational Study. 2023; 15:e46231. doi: 10.7759/cureus.46231

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37908900/
