PMID: 37901998
Title: Global Left Ventricular Myocardial Work Efficiency in Patients With Severe Rheumatic Mitral Stenosis and Preserved Left Ventricular Ejection Fraction.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Assessment of left ventricular (LV) function plays a pivotal role in the management of patients with valvular heart disease, including those caused by rheumatic heart disease. Noninvasive LV pressure-strain loop analysis is emerging as a new echocardiographic method to evaluate global LV systolic function, integrating longitudinal strain by speckle-tracking analysis and noninvasively measured blood pressure to estimate myocardial work. The aim of this study was to characterize global LV myocardial work efficiency in patients with severe rheumatic mitral stenosis (MS) with preserved ejection fraction (EF).
METHODS: We retrospectively included adult patients with severe rheumatic MS with preserved EF (> 50%) and sinus rhythm. Healthy individuals without structural heart disease were included as a control group. Global LV myocardial work efficiency was estimated with a proprietary algorithm from speckle-tracking strain analyses, as well as noninvasive blood pressure measurements.
RESULTS: A total of 45 individuals with isolated severe rheumatic MS with sinus rhythm and 45 healthy individuals were included. In healthy individuals without structural heart disease, the mean global LV myocardial work efficiency was 96% (standard deviation [SD], 2), Compared with healthy individuals, median global LV myocardial work efficiency was significantly worse in MS patients (89%; SD, 4; p < 0.001) although the LVEF was similar.
CONCLUSIONS: Individuals with isolated severe rheumatic MS and preserved EF, had global LV myocardial work efficiencies lower than normal controls.

Citation: Rudiktyo E, et al. Global Left Ventricular Myocardial Work Efficiency in Patients With Severe Rheumatic Mitral Stenosis and Preserved Left Ventricular Ejection Fraction. Global Left Ventricular Myocardial Work Efficiency in Patients With Severe Rheumatic Mitral Stenosis and Preserved Left Ventricular Ejection Fraction. 2023; 31:191-199. doi: 10.4250/jcvi.2022.0124

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37901998/
