PMID: 37906976
Title: VENUM (Vascular Education iN Undergraduate Medicine): a multicentre evaluation of undergraduate vascular education in the UK.

Abstract: INTRODUCTION: Vascular surgery is a recognised surgical subspecialty covering an array of circulatory conditions predominately affecting geriatric and diabetic patients. As such, a wide breadth of clinicians will see patients with vascular pathologies, but it is unclear how detailed their knowledge base is. Key to this is the education of medical students, which has been poorly documented during undergraduate training in the UK. VENUM aimed to establish students' perceptions of vascular surgery and their confidence in performing vascular objective structured clinical examination (OCSE) skills.
METHODS: During the academic year of 2022/2023, final-year medical students were invited to complete a JISC survey (collaborative authorship). Seventy-seven research leads were recruited to disseminate the survey. Quantitative and thematic analysis was used to assess the data.
RESULTS: In total, 240 final-year medical students completed the survey (54% female; 26 medical schools represented). Forty-five per cent of students reported never having had a vascular placement, 24% had never completed a vascular-focused clinical examination and 26% reported low confidence in performing ankle brachial pressure index measurement. An assessment of peripheral arterial disease morbidity was answered correctly in 17% of respondents compared with 92% for angina (chi-square test p&lt;0.001). Students perceived the specialty to be non-inclusive and that early exposure to vascular surgery was required for better engagement with the specialty.
CONCLUSION: Students have experienced little exposure to vascular surgery. This may affect future recruitment to vascular surgery and overall knowledge of vascular conditions in UK-trained doctors, which may affect long-term patient management.

Citation: Sucharitkul P, et al. VENUM (Vascular Education iN Undergraduate Medicine): a multicentre evaluation of undergraduate vascular education in the UK. VENUM (Vascular Education iN Undergraduate Medicine): a multicentre evaluation of undergraduate vascular education in the UK. 2023; 105:765-771. doi: 10.1308/rcsann.2023.0048

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37906976/
