PMID: 37907393
Title: Modified patch-conduit venoplasty for portal vein hypoplasia in pediatric liver transplantation.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Portal vein (PV) interposition can induce various PV-related complications, making more reliable techniques necessary. The present study describes the development of a modified patch venoplasty technique, combining the native PV wall and a vein homograft conduit, called modified patch-conduit venoplasty (MPCV).
METHODS: The surgical technique for MPCV was optimized by simulation and applied to seven pediatric patients undergoing liver transplantation (LT) for biliary atresia combined with PV hypoplasia.
RESULTS: The simulation study revealed that inserting the whole-length native PV wall as a longitudinal rectangular patch was more effective in preventing PV conduit stenosis than the conventional technique using triangular partial insertion. These findings were used to develop the MPCV technique, in which the native PV wall was converted into a long rectangular patch, acting as a backbone for PV reconstruction. A longitudinal incision on the vein conduit converted the cylindrical vein into a large vein patch. The wall of the native PV was fully preserved as the posterior wall of the PV conduit, thus preventing longitudinal redundancy and unwanted rotation of the reconstructed PV. This technique was applied to seven patients with biliary atresia undergoing living-donor and deceased-donor split LT. None of these patients has experienced PV complications for up to 12 months after transplantation.
CONCLUSIONS: This newly devised MCPV technique can replace conventional PV interposition. MCPV may be a surgical option for reliable PV reconstruction using fresh or cryopreserved vein homografts during pediatric LT.

Citation: Namgoong JM, et al. Modified patch-conduit venoplasty for portal vein hypoplasia in pediatric liver transplantation. Modified patch-conduit venoplasty for portal vein hypoplasia in pediatric liver transplantation. 2023; 37:260-268. doi: 10.4285/kjt.23.0037

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37907393/
