PMID: 37904279
Title: Vertical Stenosis as a Morphological Risk Factor for Anterior Cruciate Ligament Ruptures in Children: A Magnetic Resonance Imaging-Based Comparison.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: There are known anatomic variations that may lead to traumatic disruption of the anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) identified within adult and adolescent patients.
PURPOSE/HYPOTHESIS: The purpose of this study was to compare the parameters of pediatric knees diagnosed with and without an ACL injury by magnetic resonance imaging. The hypothesis was that children with ACL abnormalities would demonstrate an equivalent notch width index (NWI), but a larger notch height index (NHI), in comparison with age-matched patients without ACL abnormalities, suggesting an association with congenital morphology.
STUDY DESIGN: Cross-sectional study; Level of evidence, 3.
METHODS: A retrospective comparison cohort study of pediatric knees was performed by evaluating those with a confirmed ACL rupture/deficiency and those with a benign diagnosis on magnetic resonance imaging. Overall, 6 osseous and cartilaginous measurements and 3 ratios (2 newly described) were determined. They were then grouped for statistical purposes by age: children aged 5 to 11 years and adolescents aged 12 to 19 years.
RESULTS: A total of 119 (49 children) consecutive patients with an ACL injury and 139 (72 children) healthy patients met inclusion criteria. The interaction between ACL status and age was significant for condylar measurements (P≤ .001), tibial spine height (P = .003), vertical space above tibial spine (P≤ .001), and NWI (P≤ .001) by 2-way analysis of variance. Although the NHI (P &lt; 0.001) and tibial spine prominence (P = 0.039) demonstrated stenosis in the adolescent group, they did not have significant interactions with age and ACL status (P &gt; 0.05). Regarding the transcondylar width, only the children's group had a significant difference regarding ACL status (P &lt; .001), and the mean values in the children's group with ACL tears were nearly identical to those in the adolescent group both with and without ACL tears. The children's group with ACL tears also had a significantly larger tibial spine height compared with healthy children (P &lt; .001).
CONCLUSION: Children, similar to adolescents, demonstrated the effect of the NWI on the risk of ACL tears, but only the adolescent group demonstrated stenosis with the NHI. The morphology of the knee in a child at risk for ACL rupture was not the same as that of an adolescent when considering all dimensions, but it did seem that it was more adolescent-like than child-like at the time of an ACL rupture, refuting the idea of congenital hypoplasia as a common cause.

Citation: Manhard CE, et al. Vertical Stenosis as a Morphological Risk Factor for Anterior Cruciate Ligament Ruptures in Children: A Magnetic Resonance Imaging-Based Comparison. Vertical Stenosis as a Morphological Risk Factor for Anterior Cruciate Ligament Ruptures in Children: A Magnetic Resonance Imaging-Based Comparison. 2023; 51:3687-3692. doi: 10.1177/03635465231202886

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37904279/
