PMID: 37906762
Title: [Use of anticoagulants in patients with atrial fibrillation undergoing transcatheter aortic valve implantation].

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Transcatheter Aortic Valve Implantation (TAVI) is beneficial in patients with symptomatic severe Aortic Stenosis (AS). There is no consensus about the best anticoagulation strategy for patients with a recent TAVI and with atrial fibrillation (AF). Direct oral anticoagulants (DOACs) are effective to prevent embolic events with a significant lower incidence of bleeding. There is scarce evidence about the use of these drugs in patients undergoing TAVI.
AIM: To assess the management of anticoagulation at the moment of discharge of patients with AF and TAVI.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: A four question survey was sent to cardiologists involved in TAVI programs in different international centers.
RESULTS: The survey was answered by 72 interventional cardiologists. Even with the lack of randomized evidence, in most of the scenarios DOACs are prescribed at discharge in patients with indication for anticoagulation. Also, in patients with high bleeding risk, most cardiologists would perform a left atrial appendage closure. In patients with concomitant coronary artery disease, if a stent was recently implanted, prescription of the combination of a DOAC and one antiplatelet drug was the most common answer. In patients with a former coronary angioplasty, DOAC or Warfarin was the therapy of choice.
CONCLUSIONS: In the absence of randomized data, interventional cardiologists prescribe DOACs at discharge to patients with AF and TAVI, without following current guidelines in most cases.

Citation: Veas N, et al. [Use of anticoagulants in patients with atrial fibrillation undergoing transcatheter aortic valve implantation]. [Use of anticoagulants in patients with atrial fibrillation undergoing transcatheter aortic valve implantation]. 2022; 150:618-624. doi: 10.4067/s0034-98872022000500618

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37906762/
