PMID: 37901745
Title: Multifactor analysis of the technique in total laparoscopic gastric cancer.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Esophageal gastric anastomosis is a common surgical technique used to treat patients with gastric cancer who undergo total gastrectomy. However, using simple anastomosis techniques alone may not meet the needs of patients in some cases and can lead to complications such as anastomotic stenosis and ulceration. In order to overcome these issues and improve patient prognosis, muscle flap reconstruction technique has emerged. Muscle flap reconstruction is a method of improving gastric-esophageal anastomosis by transplanting muscle tissue. By covering the anastomotic site with muscle tissue, it not only enhances the stability of the anastomosis site but also increases blood supply, promoting healing and recovery of the anastomosis. Therefore, the use of muscle flap reconstruction technique in esophageal gastric anastomosis during total gastrectomy for gastric cancer is increasingly widely applied.
AIM: To determine the effectiveness of esophagogastric anastomosis using the muscle flap reconstruction technology in total abdominal gastrectomy for gastric cancer and perform follow-up experiments to understand the factors affecting patients' prognosis.
METHODS: The study subjects were 60 patients with gastric cancer who were admitted to our hospital between October 2018 and January 2022. All patients underwent esophagogastric anastomosis using the double muscle flap reconstruction technology in total abdominal gastrectomy. Perioperative indicators were determined, and patients were followed up for 1 year. Furthermore, patient outcomes were observed within 1 year, followed by patient classification based on different outcomes. Moreover, clinicopathological parameters were observed and relevant factors affecting patient prognosis were analyzed.
RESULTS: The operation time was 318 ± 43 min, the formation time of esophageal double muscle flap anastomosis was 110 ± 13 min, the number of lymph node dissections was 26 ± 6, the incision length was 3 ± 0.6 cm, intraoperative bleeding volume was 48 ± 15 mL, first anal exhaust time was 5.3 ± 1.8 d, first meal time was 6.0 ± 1.6 d, length of hospital stay was 11.8 ± 2.5, and treatment cost was 5.8 ± 0.7 thousand yuan. The patient experienced three postoperative complications: 2 cases of pulmonary infection and 1 case of respiratory discomfort. During 1-year follow-up, 50 patients survived and 10 died. Univariate analysis revealed that histological types, tumor size, tumor-node-metastasis staging, vascular invasion, and postoperative adjuvant radiotherapy and chemotherapy were the main factors affecting the prognosis of surviving patients. Furthermore, Cox regression analysis revealed that postoperative adjuvant radiotherapy and chemotherapy were the main factors affecting patient prognosis. The survival time of the survival group was significantly higher than that of the death group (P &lt; 0.05).
CONCLUSION: Esophagogastric anastomotic using muscle flap reconstruction exhibits good effects on patients who undergo total abdominal gastrectomy for cancer. Postoperative adjuvant radiotherapy and chemotherapy are the main factors affecting patient prognosis.

Citation: Shi JK, et al. Multifactor analysis of the technique in total laparoscopic gastric cancer. Multifactor analysis of the technique in total laparoscopic gastric cancer. 2023; 15:2003-2011. doi: 10.4240/wjgs.v15.i9.2003

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37901745/
