PMID: 37900663
Title: Acute pulmonary artery dissection in an adult with chronic pulmonary hypertension secondary to congenital heart disease: a case report.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: D-Transposition of the great arteries (d-TGA) is characterized by the aorta positioned above the right ventricle and the pulmonary artery above the left ventricle. Acute pulmonary artery dissection (PAD) is a rare and often lethal condition. We present a case report of acute PAD in an adult with d-TGA and pulmonary hypertension.
CASE SUMMARY: A 49-year-old male with history of d-TGA palliated with an atrial switch (Mustard) operation, pulmonary venous baffle stenosis treated percutaneously, chronic pulmonary hypertension (mixed group 1 and 2), and severe dilatation of pulmonary arteries (pulmonary trunk of 75 mm) presented to the emergency department with chest pain and acute respiratory failure. Blood pressure was 106/78 mmHg, heart rate 93 b.p.m., and oxygen saturation 88% on room air. A computed tomography (CT) scan showed acute right PAD. He was not considered suitable for surgery nor percutaneous procedure. Epoprostenol was initiated to reduce parietal stress, but after initial stabilization, pulmonary venous stent baffle gradient increased and acute pulmonary oedema occurred. Epoprostenol was withdrawn, and furosemide was initiated, with good clinical response. A follow-up CT scan showed dissection morphological stabilization and false lumen thrombosis, and the patient was discharged.
DISCUSSION: Pulmonary hypertension and previous pulmonary artery dilatation are reported as the main underlying conditions leading to PAD. No previous cases of PAD are described in patients with history of d-TGA and atrial switch procedure. Evidence regarding the best treatment of PAD is lacking, but it seems reasonable to reduce parietal stress using pulmonary vasodilators. Nevertheless, in patients with post-capillary pulmonary hypertension, pulmonary vasodilatation may cause important pulmonary congestion.

Citation: Tomasino M, et al. Acute pulmonary artery dissection in an adult with chronic pulmonary hypertension secondary to congenital heart disease: a case report. Acute pulmonary artery dissection in an adult with chronic pulmonary hypertension secondary to congenital heart disease: a case report. 2023; 7:ytad508. doi: 10.1093/ehjcr/ytad508

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37900663/
