PMID: 37917206
Title: Depression as a prognostic factor for lumbar spinal stenosis outcomes: a systematic review.

Abstract: PURPOSE: Lumbar spinal stenosis (LSS) is associated with increased levels of psychological distress, including depression; however, the prognostic value of depression remains unclear. The purpose of this systematic review was to synthesize the evidence on the prognostic value of depression for a range of outcomes in patients with LSS.
METHODS: Inclusion criteria were prospective cohort studies that investigated depression in patients diagnosed with LSS. Searches were conducted in 7 databases. Critical appraisal, data extraction, and judgement of cumulative evidence were conducted independently by two reviewers. A meta-analysis was not conducted due to a lack of unique cohorts for each outcome, varying follow-up times, and differences in measurements for both prognostic factors and outcomes.
RESULTS: Twenty-three articles were included. There was evidence for an association between preoperative depression and postoperative disability and symptom severity outcomes for patients with LSS. Odds ratios ranged from 1.15 to 2.94 for postoperative disability and 1.16-1.20 for symptom severity at various follow-up times. Using GRADE, evidence supporting depression as a prognostic factor for these LSS outcomes was deemed to be of moderate quality. Similarly strong evidence suggested depressive symptoms are of no prognostic value for postoperative walking capacity.
CONCLUSION: Depression appears to have small to moderate prognostic value for LSS outcomes, with the strongest evidence for postoperative disability and symptom severity. The prognostic value of depression for LSS outcomes should be further explored using standardized measures in additional cohorts, including patients managing their condition conservatively, who have been neglected in related research.

Citation: Morales A, et al. Depression as a prognostic factor for lumbar spinal stenosis outcomes: a systematic review. Depression as a prognostic factor for lumbar spinal stenosis outcomes: a systematic review. 2024; 33:851-871. doi: 10.1007/s00586-023-08002-x

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37917206/
