PMID: 37914797
Title: Nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy to quantify major extracellular matrix components in fibro-calcific aortic valve disease.

Abstract: Fibro-calcific aortic valve disease (FCAVD) is a pathological condition marked by overt fibrous and calcific extracellular matrix (ECM) accumulation that leads to valvular dysfunction and left ventricular outflow obstruction. Costly valve implantation is the only approved therapy. Multiple pharmacological interventions are under clinical investigation, however, none has proven clinically beneficial. This failure of translational approaches indicates incomplete understanding of the underlying pathomechanisms and may result from a limited toolbox of scientific methods to assess the cornerstones of FCAVD: lipid deposition, fibrous and calcific ECM accumulation. In this study, we evaluated magic-angle spinning (MAS) nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) spectroscopy to both, qualitatively and quantitatively assess these key elements of FCAVD pathogenesis. NMR spectra showed collagen, elastin, triacylglycerols, and phospholipids in human control and FCAVD tissue samples (n = 5). Calcification, measured by the hydroxyapatite content, was detectable in FCAVD tissues and in valve interstitial cells under procalcifying media conditions. Hydroxyapatite was significantly higher in FCAVD tissues than in controls (p &lt; 0.05) as measured by 31P MAS NMR. The relative collagen content was lower in FCAVD tissues vs. controls (p &lt; 0.05). Overall, we demonstrate the versatility of NMR spectroscopy as a diagnostic tool in preclinical FCAVD assessment.

Citation: Feistner L, et al. Nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy to quantify major extracellular matrix components in fibro-calcific aortic valve disease. Nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy to quantify major extracellular matrix components in fibro-calcific aortic valve disease. 2023; 13:18823. doi: 10.1038/s41598-023-46143-7

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37914797/
