PMID: 37917300
Title: Integrated Analysis of Chromatin and Transcriptomic Profiling Identifies PU.1 as a Core Regulatory Factor in Microglial Activation Induced by Chronic Cerebral Hypoperfusion.

Abstract: In addition to causing white matter lesions, chronic cerebral hypoperfusion (CCH) can also cause damage to gray matter, but the underlying molecular mechanisms remain largely unknown. In order to obtain a better understanding of the relationship between gene expression and transcriptional regulation alterations, novel upstream regulators could be identified using integration analysis of the transcriptome and epigenetic approaches. Here, a bilateral common carotid artery stenosis (BCAS) model was established for inducing CCH in mice. The spatial cognitive function of mice was evaluated, and changes in cortical microglia morphology were observed. RNA-sequencing (RNA-seq) and the assay for transposase-accessible chromatin with high-throughput sequencing (ATAC-seq) were performed on isolated mouse cortical brain tissue. Then, a systematic joint analysis of BCAS hypoperfusion-induced cortex-specific RNA-seq and ATAC-seq was conducted in order to assess the extent of the correlation between the two, and PU.1 was found to be greatly enriched through motif analysis and transcription factor annotation. Also, the core regulatory factor PU.1 induced by BCAS hypoperfusion was shown to be colocalized with microglia. Based on the above analysis, PU.1 plays a key regulatory role in microglial activation induced by CCH. And the transcriptome and epigenomic data presented in this study can help identify potential targets for future research exploring chronic hypoperfusion-induced brain injury.

Citation: Zhang Z, et al. Integrated Analysis of Chromatin and Transcriptomic Profiling Identifies PU.1 as a Core Regulatory Factor in Microglial Activation Induced by Chronic Cerebral Hypoperfusion. Integrated Analysis of Chromatin and Transcriptomic Profiling Identifies PU.1 as a Core Regulatory Factor in Microglial Activation Induced by Chronic Cerebral Hypoperfusion. 2024; 61:2569-2589. doi: 10.1007/s12035-023-03734-9

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37917300/
