PMID: 37913919
Title: Hysteroscopic Lysis of Complex Uterine Adhesions After Interventional Radiology-Guided Access.

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: To demonstrate a novel surgical technique using hysteroscopic lysis of adhesions after interventional radiology (IR)-guided access in patients with severe intrauterine adhesions and challenging uterine access.
DESIGN: This video illustrates the technique of the safe division of intrauterine adhesions after IR-guided access.
SETTING: Conventional hysteroscopic adhesiolysis might be inadequate or risky in cases of severely narrowed or obstructed uterine flow tract, possibly resulting in incomplete adhesiolysis, false passages, or uterine perforation. This video presents 2 cases from a tertiary center involving a multidisciplinary team of a reproductive surgeon and an interventional radiologist. The first case involves a 38-year-old with severe Asherman syndrome, who experienced unsuccessful attempt to treat adhesions that was complicated by a false passage. The second case involves a 39-year-old with recurrent severe Asherman syndrome and a history of unsuccessful attempts at hysterosalpingogram and conventional hysteroscopic lysis of adhesions.
INTERVENTIONS: In the IR suite, the patient was put in a lithotomy position on the fluoroscopy table. A vaginal speculum was inserted exposing the cervix. The procedure was performed using intravenous sedation and topical anesthetic spray applied to the cervix. Using fluoroscopy, a balloon cannula was inserted through the cervix, followed by contrast injection to assess uterine access. If there is no route, transvaginal ultrasound-guided needle cannulation of the main portion of the uterine cavity would be performed, approximating as closely as possible to the expected route of the cervical canal. A guidewire followed by a locked loop catheter was advanced through adhesions into the uterine cavity. The catheter was left protruding from the cervix to guide the hysteroscope. The patient was then transferred to the operating room for the hysteroscopic procedure. Under the guidance of the intrauterine catheter, the adhesions were carefully lysed using cold scissors. The endometrial cavity and tubal openings were inspected to ensure complete adhesiolysis and exclusion of any other copathologies.
CONCLUSION: IR guidance can provide a safe and effective approach to hysteroscopic lysis of adhesions in patients with challenging intrauterine adhesions and difficult uterine access, such as patients with severe Asherman syndrome, intractable cervical stenosis, uterine wall agglutination, previous adhesiolysis failure, marked fixed retroverted retroflexed uteri, and previous false passage or uterine perforation.

Citation: Fayek B, et al. Hysteroscopic Lysis of Complex Uterine Adhesions After Interventional Radiology-Guided Access. Hysteroscopic Lysis of Complex Uterine Adhesions After Interventional Radiology-Guided Access. 2024; 31:17-18. doi: 10.1016/j.jmig.2023.10.020

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37913919/
