PMID: 37910335
Title: Cardiac output, cerebral blood flow and cognition in patients with severe aortic valve stenosis undergoing transcatheter aortic valve implantation: design and rationale of the CAPITA study.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Approximately one-third of patients with symptomatic severe aortic valve stenosis who are scheduled for transcatheter aortic valve implantation (TAVI) have some degree of cognitive impairment. TAVI may have negative cognitive effects due to periprocedural micro-emboli inducing cerebral infarction. On the contrary, TAVI may also have positive cognitive effects due to increases in cardiac output and cerebral blood flow (CBF). However, studies that systematically assess these effects are scarce. Therefore, the main aim of this study is to assess cerebral and cognitive outcomes in patients with severe aortic valve stenosis undergoing TAVI.
STUDY DESIGN: In the prospective CAPITA (CArdiac OutPut, Cerebral Blood Flow and Cognition In Patients With Severe Aortic Valve Stenosis Undergoing Transcatheter Aortic Valve Implantation) study, cerebral and cognitive outcomes are assessed in patients undergoing TAVI. One day before and 3 months after TAVI, patients will undergo echocardiography (cardiac output, valve function), brain magnetic resonance imaging (CBF, structural lesions) and extensive neuropsychological assessment. To assess longer-term effects of TAVI, patients will again undergo echocardiography and neuropsychological assessment 1 year after the procedure. The co-primary outcome measures are change in CBF (in ml/100 g per min) and change in global cognitive functioning (Z-score) between baseline and 3‑month follow-up. Secondary objectives include change in cardiac output, white matter hyperintensities and other structural brain lesions. (ClinicalTrials.gov identifier NCT05481008) CONCLUSION : The CAPITA study is the first study designed to systematically assess positive and negative cerebral and cognitive outcomes after TAVI. We hypothesise that TAVI improves cardiac output, CBF and cognitive functioning.

Citation: van Nieuwkerk AC, et al. Cardiac output, cerebral blood flow and cognition in patients with severe aortic valve stenosis undergoing transcatheter aortic valve implantation: design and rationale of the CAPITA study. Cardiac output, cerebral blood flow and cognition in patients with severe aortic valve stenosis undergoing transcatheter aortic valve implantation: design and rationale of the CAPITA study. 2023; 31:461-470. doi: 10.1007/s12471-023-01826-8

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37910335/
