PMID: 37915029
Title: Association of triglyceride-glucose index and neutrophil-to-lymphocyte ratio with coronary artery disease.

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: The present study aimed to investigate the association of triglyceride-glucose (TyG) index and neutrophil-to-lymphocyte ratio (NLR) with coronary artery disease (CAD), and evaluate the cumulative value of TyG index and NLR in identifying CAD, as well as the severity of CAD.
METHODS: This retrospective study enrolled 2867 patients who underwent coronary angiography (CAG) for the first time between January 2013 and June 2022 in Zhongnan Hospital of Wuhan University. There were 2109 patients with CAD and 758 patients without CAD. The CAD patients were divided into two groups based on the median of Gensini score (mild stenosis CAD group: Gensini score < 26 points; severe stenosis CAD group: Gensini score ≥ 26 points). To further evaluate the cumulative value of TyG index and NLR in identifying CAD and CAD severity, all patients were classified into four groups based on median of TyG index and NLR: (1) the control group: patients with low-TyG and low-NLR; (2) isolated high-NLR group: patients with low-TyG and high- NLR; (3) isolated high- TyG group: patients with high-TyG and low- NLR; (4) high-TyG combined with high-NLR group: patients with high-TyG and high- NLR.
RESULTS: Multivariate logistic regression analysis showed that both the TyG index and NLR were independent risk factors for CAD, and they were also independent risk factors for severe stenosis in CAD (P < 0.05). Compared with the low-TyG and low- NLR group, patients in high-TyG and high- NLR group had a 1.418 times higher odds ratio (OR) of having CAD and a 1.692 times higher OR of having severe stenosis in CAD in the multivariable logistic regression model. It is worth noting that the OR values of the high-TyG and high- NLR group were higher than those of the isolated high-NLR group and the isolated high- TyG group. The ROC analysis showed that the combination of the TyG index and NLR was superior to TyG index or NLR in predicting CAD and CAD severity.
CONCLUSION: Compared to TyG index or NLR, the combination of the TyG index and NLR is beneficial to improve the diagnostic accuracy of CAD and CAD severity.

Citation: Zhang B, et al. Association of triglyceride-glucose index and neutrophil-to-lymphocyte ratio with coronary artery disease. Association of triglyceride-glucose index and neutrophil-to-lymphocyte ratio with coronary artery disease. 2023; 23:534. doi: 10.1186/s12872-023-03564-6

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37915029/
