PMID: 37910244
Title: Assessment of the ileoanal pouch for the colorectal surgeon.

Abstract: INTRODUCTION: Many pouch complications following ileoanal pouch surgery have an inflammatory or mechanical nature, and specialist colorectal surgeons are required to assess the anatomy of the ileoanal pouch in multiple settings. In this study, we report our stepwise clinical and endoscopic assessment of the patient with an ileoanal pouch.
METHODS: The most common configuration of the ileoanal pouch is a J-pouch, and the stapled anastomosis is more frequently performed than a handsewn post-mucosectomy. A structured clinical and endoscopic assessment of the ileoanal pouch must provide information on 7 critical areas: anus and perineum, rectal cuff, pouch anal anastomosis, pouch body, blind end of the pouch, pouch inlet and pre-pouch ileum.
RESULTS: We have developed a structured pro forma for step-wise assessment of the ileoanal pouch, according to 7 essential areas to be evaluated, biopsied and reported. The structured assessment of the ileoanal pouch in 102 patients allowed reporting of abnormal findings in 63 (61.7%). Strictures were diagnosed in 27 patients (26.4%), 3 pouch inlet strictures, 21 pouch anal anastomosis strictures, and 3 pre-pouch ileum strictures. Chronic, recurrent pouchitis was diagnosed in 9 patients, whilst 1 patient had Crohn's disease of the pouch.
CONCLUSIONS: Detailed clinical history, assessment of symptoms and multidisciplinary input are all essential for the care of patients with an ileoanal pouch. We present a comprehensive reporting pro forma for initial clinical assessment of the patient with an ileoanal pouch, with the aim to guide further investigations and inform multidisciplinary decision-making.

Citation: Celentano V and Manzo CA. Assessment of the ileoanal pouch for the colorectal surgeon. Assessment of the ileoanal pouch for the colorectal surgeon. 2023; 408:423. doi: 10.1007/s00423-023-03151-5

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37910244/
