PMID: 37927203
Title: Remote ischemic conditioning after stroke: Research progress in clinical study.

Abstract: BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: Stroke is a leading cause of global morbidity and mortality, indicating the necessity and urgency of effective prevention and treatment. Remote ischemic conditioning (RIC) is a convenient, simple, non-intrusive, and effective method that can be easily added to the treatment regime of stroke patients. Animal experiments and clinical trials have proved the neuroprotective effects of RIC on brain injury including (examples of neuroprotective effects). This neuroprotection is achieved by raising brain tolerance to ischemia, increasing local cerebral blood perfusion, promoting collateral circulations, neural regeneration, and reducing the incidence of hematomas in brain tissue. This current paper will summarize the studies within the last 2 years for the comprehensive understanding of the use of RIC in the treatment of stroke.
METHODS: This paper summarizes the clinical research progress of RIC on stroke (ischemic stroke and hemorrhagic stroke (HS)). This paper is a systematic review of research published on registered clinical trials using RIC in stroke from inception through November 2022. Four major databases (PUBMED, WEB OF SCIENCE, EMBASE, and ClinicalTrials.gov) were searched.
RESULTS: Forty-eight studies were identified meeting our criteria. Of these studies, 14 were in patients with acute ischemic stroke with onset times ranging from 6 h to 14 days, seven were in patients with intravenous thrombolysis or endovascular thrombectomy, 10 were in patients with intracranial atherosclerotic stenosis, six on patients with vascular cognitive impairment, three on patients with moyamoya disease, and eight on patients with HS. Of the 48 studies, 42 were completed and six are ongoing.
CONCLUSIONS: RIC is safe, feasible, and effective in the treatment of stroke. Large-scale research is still required to explore the optimal treatment options and mechanisms of RIC in the future to develop a breakthrough in stroke prevention and treatment.

Citation: Jiang B, et al. Remote ischemic conditioning after stroke: Research progress in clinical study. Remote ischemic conditioning after stroke: Research progress in clinical study. 2024; 30:e14507. doi: 10.1111/cns.14507

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37927203/
