PMID: 37929959
Title: Removal of an impacted apricot pit from a scarring duodenal stenosis using the endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography (ERCP) stone extraction technique.

Abstract: A 66-year-old man presented with repeated vomiting for 5 days. Initial gastroscopy showed gastric retention while computed tomography (CT) revealed a 1.8*1.1 cm, oval-shaped, high-density object in the duodenum. Considering his past medical history of a surgical repair for duodenal ulcer perforation 20 years ago, a diagnosis of foreign body (FB) impaction causing gastric outlet obstruction was established. After gastric lavage, a second gastroscopy was performed. A brownish round FB impacted upon scarring stenoses at the junction of the 1st and 2nd part of duodenum was visualized after advancement of the scope with effort through a deformed pylorus. Attempts to capture the FB using a polypectomy snare failed because the snare loop could not be advanced across the stenotic impaction site to allow adequate opening. A grasper was also ineffective due to the smooth surface of the FB. Then the ERCP stone extraction technique was applied. Directed by the adjustable tip of a sphincterotome which was introduced through the same gastroscope, a guidewire passed with little resistance over the impaction site for an adequate length. Subsequently, an extraction balloon was advanced through the guidewire with slight inflation to avoid injury to the stenotic duodenal wall and fully inflated in the distal lumen. Gradual balloon deflation and withdrawal applied simultaneously achieved successful removal of the BF, which was identified as an apricot pit. The patient resumed his diet of soft food immediately after the procedure without complaint of any discomfort.

Citation: Tang Y, et al. Removal of an impacted apricot pit from a scarring duodenal stenosis using the endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography (ERCP) stone extraction technique. Removal of an impacted apricot pit from a scarring duodenal stenosis using the endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography (ERCP) stone extraction technique. 2024; 116:505-506. doi: 10.17235/reed.2023.10019/2023

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37929959/
