PMID: 37926659
Title: Safety and efficacy of high tracheostomy with inferior retraction of the thyroid isthmus.

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: In typical surgical tracheostomy, the thyroid isthmus is divided or retracted superiorly and preserved. However, at our institution, the thyroid isthmus is retracted inferiorly and preserved. Thereafter, a tracheal incision is made above the thyroid isthmus. This method, hereinafter defined as high tracheostomy, has the advantage of facilitating immediate access to the trachea in a superficial position; moreover, it can be quickly replaced with cricothyrotomy in emergency situations. However, tracheotomies placed too high can potentially damage the cricoid cartilage, thereby causing subglottic granulation and tracheal stenosis. We aimed to validate the safety and efficacy of high tracheostomy with inferior retraction of the thyroid isthmus.
METHODS: This was a retrospective cohort analysis. We analyzed the operative method and other relevant characteristics of 90 patients who underwent surgical tracheostomy between April 2016 and June 2022. For those who underwent high tracheostomies, we analyzed the duration of surgery, amount of intraoperative bleeding, occurrence of complications, problems with stoma closure, and perioperative mortality.
RESULTS: High tracheostomy was performed in 73 patients. Subglottic granulation occurred in one patient, and the granulation tissue spontaneously shrank. Subcutaneous emphysema occurred in two patients. No patient developed wound infection or tracheoinnominate artery fistula. Moreover, no patient experienced false route tracheotomy tube insertion because the thyroid glands were located under the stoma.
CONCLUSION: The frequency of complications was comparable to that reported in other studies on tracheostomy. Additionally, no patient developed tracheal stenosis secondary to tracheostomy above the thyroid isthmus. Therefore, high tracheostomy with inferior retraction and preservation of the thyroid isthmus is safe and advantageous.

Citation: Iokura D, et al. Safety and efficacy of high tracheostomy with inferior retraction of the thyroid isthmus. Safety and efficacy of high tracheostomy with inferior retraction of the thyroid isthmus. 2024; 51:231-235. doi: 10.1016/j.anl.2023.10.007

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37926659/
