PMID: 37923244
Title: Characterization of cardiac arrhythmias and maternal-fetal outcomes in pregnant women: A prospective cohort study.

Abstract: INTRODUCTION AND OBJECTIVES: Cardiovascular disease is a common cause of morbidity and mortality in pregnant women. Arrhythmias are common complications during pregnancy; however, the data are limited. Our goal was to characterize the epidemiology, clinical presentation, and impact of cardiac arrhythmias on maternal-fetal outcomes.
METHODS: A prospective cohort study from the Colombian Registry of Pregnancy and Cardiovascular Disease was carried out from 2016 to 2019. All patients with tachyarrhythmia or bradyarrhythmia and a minimum follow-up of six months after delivery were included. The primary outcome was a composite of cardiac events defined as pulmonary edema, symptomatic sustained arrhythmia requiring specific therapy, stroke, cardiac arrest, or maternal death. Secondary outcomes were other cardiac, neonatal, and obstetric events.
RESULTS: Arrhythmias were the most common cause of referral to our dedicated cardio-obstetric clinic. A total of 92 patients were included, mean age 27±6 years; 8.7% had previous structural heart disease, and cardiology consultation was delayed in 79.4%. The most common arrhythmias were premature ventricular contractions (33%) and paroxysmal reentrant supraventricular tachycardias (15%); 11 patients (12%) had cardiac implantable electronic devices. Cardiac events occurred in 18.4% of patients, obstetric events occurred in 6.5%, and one caesarean was indicated in the context of symptomatic severe mitral stenosis. Adverse neonatal outcomes were observed in 24.3% of newborns.
CONCLUSIONS: Arrhythmias were the most common cause of referral to a dedicated cardio-obstetric clinic; most had a benign course. Adverse maternal cardiovascular outcomes were significant and there was a high rate of obstetric and neonatal adverse events, underlining the importance of multidisciplinary care.

Citation: Muñoz-Ortiz E, et al. Characterization of cardiac arrhythmias and maternal-fetal outcomes in pregnant women: A prospective cohort study. Characterization of cardiac arrhythmias and maternal-fetal outcomes in pregnant women: A prospective cohort study. 2024; 43:67-74. doi: 10.1016/j.repc.2023.08.003

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37923244/
