PMID: 37923578
Title: Coronary computed tomography angiography-based SYNTAX score for comprehensive assessment of advanced coronary artery disease.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Since the initial attempt to adapt the anatomical SYNTAX score (aSS) to coronary computed tomography angiography (CCTA), CCTA imaging technology has evolved, and is currently used as a "decision-maker" for revascularization strategy in complex coronary artery disease (CAD) and has rendered necessary some updating of the aSS to the CCTA modality.
OBJECTIVES: The aim is to provide updated definitions of the aSS derived from CCTA in patients with complex CAD undergoing CABG.
METHODS: The modifications of CCTA-aSS are the following; (i) updated definition and detection criteria of total occlusion (TO) in CCTA based on length assessment, (ii) inclusion of scoring points for serial bifurcations located in one single coronary segment. (iii) inclusion of weighing score points for lesions located distal to a TO, not visualized on conventional coronary angiography, but visible in CCTA, (iv) removal of thrombus and bridging collateral items from the weighing score, considering the limited diagnostic capability of CCTA in detecting these specific lesion characteristics.
RESULTS: the updated CCTA-aSS was tested in a first-in-man study using the sole guidance of CCTA for the planning and performance of bypass surgery in complex CAD (n ​= ​114). An interobserver analysis showed excellent reproducibility (ICC ​= ​0.96, 95 ​% confidence interval 0.94-0.97).
CONCLUSION: The updated CCTA-aSS was implemented in a cohort of patients with complex CAD undergoing CABG with the sole guidance of CCTA and FFR<sub>CT</sub> and the Inter-reproducibility of the analysis of the updated score was found excellent. The prognostic value of the modified CCTA-aSS will be examined in future studies.

Citation: Kageyama S, et al. Coronary computed tomography angiography-based SYNTAX score for comprehensive assessment of advanced coronary artery disease. Coronary computed tomography angiography-based SYNTAX score for comprehensive assessment of advanced coronary artery disease. 2024; 18:120-136. doi: 10.1016/j.jcct.2023.10.012

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37923578/
