PMID: 37922837
Title: A case of carotid-axillary bypass for subclavian steal syndrome in an 83-year-old female undergoing hemodialysis.

Abstract: INTRODUCTION: Patients undergoing hemodialysis exhibit a high incidence of subclavian steal syndrome. Many cases of endovascular treatment for subclavian artery stenosis were only reported recently; however, the long-term results of surgical treatment are also important. Herein, we report a case of subclavian steal syndrome treated with common carotid-axillary bypass surgery in a patient undergoing hemodialysis.
PRESENTATION OF CASE: An 83-year-old woman experienced dizziness and pain in her left hand during hemodialysis. Computed tomography and angiography revealed severe stenosis and calcified lesions in the left subclavian artery. Ultrasonography revealed a retrograde blood flow waveform in the left vertebral artery. The patient was diagnosed with subclavian steal syndrome. We performed common carotid-axillary bypass for lesions that were difficult to revascularize via endovascular therapy. The post-operative course was uneventful, and the dizziness and numbness in the patient's left hand during dialysis disappeared. Post-operative ultrasonography revealed an antegrade blood flow waveform in the left vertebral artery.
DISCUSSION: Subclavian steal syndrome is an indication for revascularization in symptomatic patients. Endovascular treatment should be considered the first choice; however, surgery should be considered for patients in whom endovascular treatment is difficult, such as those with severe calcification. We chose common carotid-axillary artery bypass because the subclavian approach is a more familiar technique. Until 1 year post-operatively, the patient had not experienced any symptom recurrence, and the shunt flow was well maintained.
CONCLUSION: Common carotid-axillary bypass can be useful for revascularization of lesions for which endovascular therapy is considered difficult in patients with subclavian steal syndrome.

Citation: Hashimoto K, et al. A case of carotid-axillary bypass for subclavian steal syndrome in an 83-year-old female undergoing hemodialysis. A case of carotid-axillary bypass for subclavian steal syndrome in an 83-year-old female undergoing hemodialysis. 2023; 112:108974. doi: 10.1016/j.ijscr.2023.108974

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37922837/
