PMID: 37920087
Title: Modified Transannular Patching Palliation versus Modified Blalock-Taussig-Thomas Shunt in Infants with Severe Tetralogy of Fallot with Diminutive Pulmonary Arteries.

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: The purpose of this study was to compare pulmonary arterial (PA) growth and morbidity, mortality, reintervention and complete repair rates after modified transannular patching palliation (mTAP) versus modified Blalock-Taussig-Thomas shunt (mBTS) for palliation in infants with severe tetralogy of Fallot (TOF) with diminutive pulmonary arteries.
METHODS: This was a retrospective case review study of 107 patients (64 males) with severe TOF who underwent staged repair with either mTAP (n = 55) or mBTS (n = 52) over an 8-year period. Procedure-related PA growth and morbidity, mortality, reintervention and complete repair rates were compared.
RESULTS: Two deaths occurred in the mBTS group due to sudden cardiac arrest, and five patients needed reintervention after the mBTS procedure because of shunt thrombosis or stenosis. Postoperative complications of mBTS included sudden cardiac arrest, shunt thrombosis/stenosis, vocal cord palsy and diaphragmatic palsy. Unlike in the mBTS group, no death, severe complications or reintervention occurred in the mTAP group. Oxygen saturations post mTAP and mBTS were significantly higher, which improved from 67.73 ± 4.36% to 94.33 ± 2.19% in the mTAP group and from 68.24 ± 3.87% to 86.87 ± 3.38% in the mBTS group. The increase in oxygen saturation and pulmonary artery growth (from pre- to post palliation) was significantly better with mTAP than with mBTS palliation (p < 0.01). All 55 patients showed complete repair after mTAP, and the time from palliation to complete repair was significantly shorter in the mTAP group.
CONCLUSIONS: In a severe form of TOF with the hypoplastic PA tree, mTAP seems to be a better strategy that is safe and better facilitates satisfactory pulmonary arterial growth until complete repair than the mBTS procedure.

Citation: Han Y, et al. Modified Transannular Patching Palliation versus Modified Blalock-Taussig-Thomas Shunt in Infants with Severe Tetralogy of Fallot with Diminutive Pulmonary Arteries. Modified Transannular Patching Palliation versus Modified Blalock-Taussig-Thomas Shunt in Infants with Severe Tetralogy of Fallot with Diminutive Pulmonary Arteries. 2023; 26:E512-E518. doi: 10.59958/hsf.5807

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37920087/
