PMID: 37933022
Title: Duodenal ulcer bleeding from a branch of the middle colic artery: A case report.

Abstract: RATIONALE: Duodenal ulcer bleeding is a potentially life-threatening condition commonly caused by the erosion of the duodenal arteries.
PATIENT CONCERNS: A 55-year-old male was referred to our hospital with abdominal pain for the past 3 days. Contrast-enhanced computed tomography of the abdomen revealed wall thickening in the descending part of the duodenum and a cystic lesion (27 × 19 mm) contiguous with the duodenum, with an accumulation of fluid. An esophagogastroduodenoscopy showed the significantly stenotic duodenum, which prevented passage of the endoscope and evaluation of the main lesion. Based on these findings, duodenal ulcer perforation and concomitant abscess formation were suspected. Two days after admission, he had massive hematochezia with bloody drainage from the nasogastric tube.
DIAGNOSES: Emergency angiography revealed duodenal ulcer bleeding from the gastroduodenal artery and the branch artery of the inferior pancreaticoduodenal artery and middle colic artery (MCA).
INTERVENTIONS: The patient was treated with transcatheter arterial embolization (TAE) of the gastroduodenal artery, the branch vessel of the inferior pancreaticoduodenal artery, and the main trunk of the MCA.
OUTCOMES: Hemostasis was achieved with TAE. The patient recovered uneventfully and undergone a gastro-jejunal bypass surgery for the duodenal stenosis 2 weeks after TAE. He was discharged without any abnormal complaints on postoperative day 12.
LESSONS: We have experienced a rare case of duodenal ulcer bleeding from a branch of the MCA. In patients with refractory upper gastrointestinal bleeding, careful evaluation of bleeding sites is recommended considering unexpected culprit vessels.

Citation: Shishido Y, et al. Duodenal ulcer bleeding from a branch of the middle colic artery: A case report. Duodenal ulcer bleeding from a branch of the middle colic artery: A case report. 2023; 102:e35955. doi: 10.1097/MD.0000000000035955

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37933022/
