PMID: 37939570
Title: Endovascular resolution of complete common iliac vein stenosis in a case of May-Thurner syndrome with underlying malignancy.

Abstract: INTRODUCTION AND IMPORTANCE: May-Thurner Syndrome (MTS) is an uncommon etiology of left common iliac vein thrombosis due to arterial compression. In this report, we describe a case of MTS with severe occlusion of the left common iliac vein in the context of a previously undiagnosed pancreatic cancer. We detail the endovascular resolution of the iliac vein compression and show long-term patency.
CASE PRESENTATION: A 33-year-old woman on oral contraceptive pills presented with extensive thrombosis of the left common iliac vein extending cephalad into the lower IVC and inferiorly to the femoral vein. The thrombus was refractory to therapeutic heparin. Mechanical thrombectomy removed the occluding thrombus. Intravenous ultrasound identified severe compression of the left common iliac vein by the right common iliac artery. Angioplasty and stenting provided complete resolution of the lesion. Imaging and hematologic workup revealed a pancreatic malignancy and concomitant hypercoagulable state that likely precipitated the patient's presentation.
CLINICAL DISCUSSION: Endovascular intervention provided complete resolution of severe iliac vein compression. Patency was maintained at 6-month follow-up. Research suggests that the anatomical lesion predisposing individuals to MTS is relatively common despite infrequent occurrence of the syndrome. This case highlights the importance of a high clinical suspicion for associated hypercoagulable states when MTS is discovered.
CONCLUSION: There is limited research exploring the relationship between severity of iliac vein compression and endovascular treatment outcome. This case documents endovascular resolution of a severe lesion with maintained patency.

Citation: MacDowell CJ, et al. Endovascular resolution of complete common iliac vein stenosis in a case of May-Thurner syndrome with underlying malignancy. Endovascular resolution of complete common iliac vein stenosis in a case of May-Thurner syndrome with underlying malignancy. 2023; 112:108987. doi: 10.1016/j.ijscr.2023.108987

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37939570/
