PMID: 37946762
Title: Intravascular ultrasonography assisted carotid artery stenting for treatment of carotid stenosis: Two case reports.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Digital subtraction angiography (DSA), the gold standard of cerebrovascular disease diagnosis, is limited in its diagnostic ability to evaluate arterial diameter. Intravascular ultrasonography (IVUS) has advantages in assessing stenosis and plaque nature and improves the evaluation and effectiveness of carotid artery stenting (CAS).
CASE SUMMARY: Case 1: A 65-year-old man presented with a five-year history of bilateral lower limb weakness due to stroke. Physical examination showed decreased strength (5-/5) in both lower limbs. Carotid artery ultrasound, magnetic resonance angiography, and computed tomography angiography (CTA) showed a right proximal internal carotid artery (ICA) stenosis (70%-99%), acute cerebral infarction, and severe right ICA stenosis, respectively. We performed IVUS-assisted CAS to measure the stenosis and detected a low-risk plaque at the site of stenosis prior to stent implantation. Post-stent balloon dilatation was performed and postoperative IVUS demonstrated successful expansion and adherence. CTA six months postoperatively showed no significant increase in in-stent stenosis. Case 2: A 36-year-old man was admitted with a right common carotid artery (CCA) dissection detected by ultrasound. Physical examination showed no positive neurological signs. Carotid ultrasound and CTA showed lumen dilation in the proximal CCA with an intima-like structure and bulging in the proximal segment of the right CCA with strip-like low-density shadow (dissection or carotid web). IVUS-assisted DSA confirmed right CCA dissection. CAS was performed and intraoperative IVUS suggested a large residual false lumen. Post-stent balloon dilatation was performed reducing the false lumen. DSA three months postoperatively indicated good stent expansion with mild stenosis.
CONCLUSION: IVUS aids decision-making during CAS by accurately assessing carotid artery wall lesions and plaque nature preoperatively, dissection and stenosis morphology intraoperatively, and visualizing and confirming CAS postoperatively.

Citation: Fu PC, et al. Intravascular ultrasonography assisted carotid artery stenting for treatment of carotid stenosis: Two case reports. Intravascular ultrasonography assisted carotid artery stenting for treatment of carotid stenosis: Two case reports. 2023; 11:7127-7135. doi: 10.12998/wjcc.v11.i29.7127

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37946762/
