PMID: 37943109
Title: The Effect of an Increasing Subglottal Stenosis Constriction That Extends From the Vocal Folds to the Inferior Border of the Cricoid Cartilage.

Abstract: Acquired subglottal stenosis is an unpredicted complication that can occur in some patients who have undergone prolonged endotracheal intubation. It is a narrowing of the airway at the level of the cricoid cartilage that can restrict airflow and cause breathing difficulty. Stenosis is typically treated with endoscopic airway dilation, with some patients experiencing multiple recurrences. The study highlights the potential of computational fluid dynamics as a noninvasive method for monitoring subglottic stenosis, which can aid in early diagnosis and surgical planning. An anatomically accurate human laryngeal airway model was constructed from computerized tomography (CT) scans. The subglottis cross-sectional area was narrowed systematically using ≈10% decrements. A quadratic profile was used to interpolate the transformation of the airway geometry from its modified shape to the baseline geometry. The numerical results were validated by static pressure measurements conducted in a physical model. The results show that airway resistance follows a squared ratio that is inversely proportional to the size of the subglottal opening (R∝A-2). The study found that critical constriction occurs in the subglottal region at 70% stenosis (upper end of grade 2). Moreover, removing airway tissue below 40% stenosis during surgical intervention does not significantly decrease airway resistance.

Citation: Michaud-Dorko J, et al. The Effect of an Increasing Subglottal Stenosis Constriction That Extends From the Vocal Folds to the Inferior Border of the Cricoid Cartilage. The Effect of an Increasing Subglottal Stenosis Constriction That Extends From the Vocal Folds to the Inferior Border of the Cricoid Cartilage. 2024; 146:(unknown pages). doi: 10.1115/1.4064029

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37943109/
