PMID: 37940525
Title: Association between middle cerebral artery morphology and branch atheromatous disease.

Abstract: INTRODUCTION: Branch atheromatous disease (BAD) is a type of cerebral infarction caused by stenosis or occlusion at the entrance of the penetrating branch due to the presence of plaque. Despite its clinical significance, it is not clear how these plaques are formed. Focal geometrical characteristics are expected to be as important as vascular risk factors in the development of atherosclerosis. This study aimed to analyze the association between middle cerebral artery (MCA) geometric features and the onset of BAD. Shear stress results from the blood flow exerting force on the inner wall of the vessels and places with low wall shear stress may be prone to atherosclerosis. At the curvature of blood vessels, the shear stress is weak on the inside of the curve and plaque is likely to form. When this is applied to the MCA M1 segment, downward type M1 is likely to form plaques on the superior side. Because the lenticulostriate artery usually branches off from the superior side of the MCA M1 segment, in downward type M1, a plaque is likely to be formed at the entrance of the penetrating branch, and for that reason, BAD is likely to onset.
METHODS: We retrospectively reviewed hospitalized stroke patients with BAD and investigated the morphology of their MCA using magnetic resonance imaging. The M1 segment was classified as straight or curved. Additionally, we compared the difference between the symptomatic and the asymptomatic side. Data regarding patients' medical history were also collected.
RESULTS: A total of 56 patients with lenticulostriate artery infarctions and BAD were analyzed. On the symptomatic side, downward type M1 accounted for the largest proportion at 44%, whereas on the asymptomatic side, it was the lowest, at 16%.
CONCLUSION: A downward type MCA may be associated with the onset of BAD and the morphological characteristics might affect the site of plaque formation. J. Med. Invest. 70 : 411-414, August, 2023.

Citation: Nagasawa J, et al. Association between middle cerebral artery morphology and branch atheromatous disease. Association between middle cerebral artery morphology and branch atheromatous disease. 2023; 70:411-414. doi: 10.2152/jmi.70.411

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37940525/
