PMID: 37940877
Title: Application of Foley balloon catheter in palliative surgery for pulmonary atresia with an intact ventricular septem, with additional cases of pulmonary atresia with ventricular septal defect and tetralogy of Fallot.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Pulmonary atresia and tetralogy of Fallot can require palliative surgery in the neonatal period due to severe hypoxia; however, limitations of established techniques include high failure rate and need for cardiopulmonary bypass. Herein, right ventricular outflow tract reconstruction on a beating heart using a Foley balloon catheter is described.
METHODS: A retrospective review of patients who underwent right ventricular outflow tract reconstruction on a beating heart using a Foley balloon catheter at our institution between September 2018 and March 2022 was completed. During the procedure, a Foley balloon catheter was used to occlude the blood from the right ventricular inflow tract.
RESULTS: Eight patients with pulmonary atresia and intact ventricular septum underwent an off-pump right ventricular outflow tract reconstruction. One patient with pulmonary atresia and ventricular septal defect, and two patients with tetralogy of Fallot underwent an on-pump right ventricular outflow tract reconstruction on a beating heart. The procedures were successful in all patients. Patent ductus arteriosus ligation without modified Blalock-Taussig shunt placement was performed in three patients with pulmonary atresia with intact ventricular septum and two patients with tetralogy of Fallot, ductus arteriosus was left open in four patients with pulmonary atresia with intact ventricular septum. All patients remained clinically well without serious complications.
CONCLUSIONS: Right ventricular outflow tract reconstruction on a beating heart using a Foley balloon catheter for pulmonary atresia and tetralogy of Fallot is a feasible alternative to catheter-based interventions or traditional surgical treatment, especially in patients with muscular infundibular stenosis or hypoplastic pulmonary annulus. Further studies with more cases are needed to verify feasibility and superiority of this approach.

Citation: Xu Q, et al. Application of Foley balloon catheter in palliative surgery for pulmonary atresia with an intact ventricular septem, with additional cases of pulmonary atresia with ventricular septal defect and tetralogy of Fallot. Application of Foley balloon catheter in palliative surgery for pulmonary atresia with an intact ventricular septem, with additional cases of pulmonary atresia with ventricular septal defect and tetralogy of Fallot. 2023; 23:547. doi: 10.1186/s12872-023-03587-z

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37940877/
