PMID: 37945968
Title: Azygos vein preservation revisited: impact on early outcomes after repair of esophageal atresia/tracheoesophageal fistula in newborns.

Abstract: Since the first successful repair of esophageal atresia/tracheoesophageal fistula (EA-TEF) was performed approximately 8 decades ago, surgeons have made considerable technical advances in solving intraoperative surgical challenges and reducing postoperative complications. According to some surgeons, preserving the Azygos vein makes this modification attractive. This study aimed to evaluate the benefits of preserving the Azygos vein during surgery for esophageal atresia with tracheoesophageal fistula and to highlight its advantages in reducing anastomotic leak, stricture, and other postoperative outcomes. This prospective comparative series was conducted between April 2020 and April 2023. The study included all newborns with EA-TEF eligible for primary repair. Patients were randomized to either Group A or B. Group A underwent Azygos vein preservation, whereas the remaining patients (Group B) underwent Azygos vein disconnection. Sixty-four patients were included in this study. Thirty-two patients (Group A) underwent Azygos vein preservation during EA-TEF repair, and the remaining thirty-two patients (Group B) underwent Azygos vein ligation and disconnection. Both groups were comparable in terms of demographics, clinical data, and operative findings (P > 0.05). Pneumonitis occurred in 4 patients in Group A and 16 patients in Group B. Anastomotic leaks occurred in two (6.2%) patients in Group A and six (18.7%) patients in Group B. There were two deaths in Group A and six deaths in Group B, with a significant difference between the two groups (P = 0.0485). Preserving the Azygos vein during esophageal atresia repair reduces the occurrence of postoperative pneumonia, leakage, and stenosis, and decreases postoperative mortality. Therefore, we declare that this modification is a significant and valuable addition to the current surgical procedures.

Citation: Daboos M, et al. Azygos vein preservation revisited: impact on early outcomes after repair of esophageal atresia/tracheoesophageal fistula in newborns. Azygos vein preservation revisited: impact on early outcomes after repair of esophageal atresia/tracheoesophageal fistula in newborns. 2023; 75:2305-2311. doi: 10.1007/s13304-023-01684-4

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37945968/
