PMID: 37943349
Title: Pathophysiology and Treatment of Intraseptal-Course Left Coronary Anomaly: Surgery for All?

Abstract: Intraseptal-course, ectopic coronary anomalies are not well characterized as to anatomy, function, prognosis, and treatment. Recently, a revolutionary but unsupported new theory is claiming that most patients with a Left Anomalous Coronary Artery originating from the Opposite Sinus with anomalous Intra-Septal course (L-ACAOS-IS)-even small children-have significant stenoses and require open-heart surgery to prevent acute myocardial infarction and death. This surprising view has spurred ongoing discussions among adult and pediatric cardiologists and cardiac surgeons, compelling us (the conservative party in the discussion) to offer an in-depth and comprehensive review of this anomaly, based on objective but opposite data. We and other adult cardiologists have followed numerous L-ACAOS-IS patients for many years and have observed none of the claimed catastrophes. Rather, we have consistently found that L-ACAOS-IS generally has a benign clinical prognosis. We present the general principle of coronary artery dysfunction in anatomical congenital anomalies (that only significant luminal coronary stenosis can have clinical repercussions). We then review anatomical and functional details of L-ACAOS-IS related to prognosis and treatment indications, which could explain many of the clinical presentations recently mentioned. Finally, we encourage our more liberal colleagues to recognize that, compared with normal coronary arteries, those with anomalies of origin and course are associated with frequent coronary spasm. In particular, we underscore that some of the ischemic manifestations and other results might actually be caused by pressure wire-induced artifacts (rigid wires tend to cause coronary spasm when advanced into tortuous coronary arteries).

Citation: Angelini P, et al. Pathophysiology and Treatment of Intraseptal-Course Left Coronary Anomaly: Surgery for All?. Pathophysiology and Treatment of Intraseptal-Course Left Coronary Anomaly: Surgery for All?. 2023; (unknown volume):(unknown pages). doi: 10.1007/s00246-023-03328-1

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37943349/
