PMID: 37957581
Title: Imaging investigation of cervicocranial artery dissection by using high resolution magnetic resonance VWI and MRA: qualitative and quantitative analysis at different stages.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: To explore the value of magnetic resonance angiography (MRA) and high resolution magnetic resonance vessel wall imaging (HRMR-VWI) in cervicocranial artery dissection (CCAD) for the disease diagnosis, course staging and treatment. On the basis of qualitative evaluation, this study also extract the changes of different stages in vessel wall in different vessel segments to identify imaging indicators for the quantitative evaluation of CCAD.
METHODS: We retrospectively enrolled 34 patients with CCAD (38branches) with conventional MRA and HRMR-VWI examinations. Two radiologists independently analyzed imaging features of vessel wall and lumen in the different stages, and the typical sign detection of artery dissection were compared between MRA and HRMR-VWI. Then the parameters of vessel wall was quantitatively evaluated by the post-processing software (Vesselmass, Leiden University Medical Center, Leiden, The Netherlands.
RESULTS: HRMR-VWI revealed typical sign detection of artery dissection in all patients in the acute and subacute stage. Among them, the intimal flap/double lumen sign ditection were more common than the MRA, there was significant difference (P = 0.012). MRA revealed typical sign detection of artery dissection in more than half the patients, and the detection was no significant difference at the chronic stage between MRA and HRMR-VWI (P = 1.000/1.000/0.761). In the acute and subacute stage, the typical sign detection of intramural hematoma and Grade II enhancement revealed by HR-MRI was higher than the observations in the chronic stage (P = 0.000/0.000/0.016), while there was no significant difference by MRA (P = 0.902). The values of wall thickness, relative signal intensity of vessel wall enhancement, relative signal intensity of intramural hematoma (IMH), and percentage of stenosis in CCAD decreased from acute to subacute and then to chronic stages. Each quantitative parameter in patients with CCAD in the early stages (i.e., acute and subacute stages) was significantly different from that in patients with CCAD in the recovered group at chronic stage (P < 0.05). Wall thickness and relative signal intensity of vessel wall enhancement in patients with CCAD in the early stages were not significantly different from those in patients with CCAD in the incompletely recovered group at chronic stage (P > 0.05).
CONCLUSIONS: As the only noninvasive imaging technology, HRMR-VWI displays the structure of the vessel wall in vivo, showing not only excellent performance in the early diagnosis of CCAD, but also describing the changes of different stages in the qualitative and quantitative characteristics of vessel wall. It also helps to guide the diseasediagnosis, course staging and treatment of CCAD. Although the diagnostic efficacy of MRA was not as good as HRMR-VWI, it should be the first choice of method for routine examination in evaluating CCAD, especially at the chronic stage of CCAD.

Citation: Ma W, et al. Imaging investigation of cervicocranial artery dissection by using high resolution magnetic resonance VWI and MRA: qualitative and quantitative analysis at different stages. Imaging investigation of cervicocranial artery dissection by using high resolution magnetic resonance VWI and MRA: qualitative and quantitative analysis at different stages. 2023; 23:184. doi: 10.1186/s12880-023-01133-z

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37957581/
