PMID: 37950294
Title: Surgical experience in repairing the right common carotid artery and the right internal jugular vein after ECMO in neonates: early clinical results.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: The purpose of this study was to summarize the early clinical results and surgical experience of repairing the right common carotid artery and the right internal jugular vein after ECMO treatment in neonates.
METHODS: We retrospectively collected the clinical data of 16 neonates with circulatory and respiratory failure who were treated with ECMO via the right common carotid artery and the right internal jugular vein in our hospital from June 2021 to December 2022. The effects of repairing the common carotid artery and internal jugular vein were evaluated.
RESULTS: All 16 patients successfully underwent right cervical vascular cannulation, and the ECMO cycle was successfully established. Twelve patients were successfully removed from ECMO. The right common carotid artery and the right internal jugular vein were successfully repaired in these 12 patients. There was unobstructed arterial blood flow in 9 patients, mild stenosis in 1 patient, moderate stenosis in 1 patient and obstruction in 1 patient. There was unobstructed venous blood flow in 10 patients, mild stenosis in 1 patient, and moderate stenosis in 1 patient. No thrombosis was found in the right internal jugular vein. Thrombosis was found in the right common carotid artery of one patient.
CONCLUSION: Repairing the right common carotid artery and the right internal jugular vein after ECMO treatment in neonates was feasible, and careful surgical anastomosis techniques and standardized postoperative anticoagulation management can ensure early vascular patency. However, long-term vascular patency is still being assessed in follow-up.

Citation: Zhang QL, et al. Surgical experience in repairing the right common carotid artery and the right internal jugular vein after ECMO in neonates: early clinical results. Surgical experience in repairing the right common carotid artery and the right internal jugular vein after ECMO in neonates: early clinical results. 2023; 49:149. doi: 10.1186/s13052-023-01556-y

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37950294/
