PMID: 37950233
Title: Replantation of lamina spinous process ligament complex and miniature titanium plate shaping internal fixation in the treatment of tumors in the spinal canal.

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: Purpose This study aims to explore the clinical efficacy of laminospinous process ligament complex reimplantation combined with mini-titanium plate fixation in the treatment of thoracolumbar intraspinal tumors.
METHODS: A retrospective analysis was performed on 43 cases of intraspinal tumors treated with thoracolumbar intraspinal tumor resection from August 2018 to March 2021, and 27 cases underwent laminospinous process ligament complex reimplantation combined with micro titanium plate shaping. Fixation (laminar replantation group), and 16 patients underwent laminectomy combined with pedicle screw internal fixation (laminectomy group). The operation time, blood loss, drainage tube removal time, cerebrospinal fluid leakage, spinal instability, and the incidence of secondary spinal stenosis were compared between the two groups. The pain VAS score, ODI score, and modified Macnab at the last follow-up were compared between the two groups. And the laminar fusion rate of the laminoplasty group was measured.
RESULTS: Both groups successfully completed the surgery and obtained complete follow-up. The incidence of cerebrospinal fluid leakage and secondary spinal canal stenosis in the laminectomy group was lower than that in the laminectomy group, and the difference was statistically significant (P < 0.05). There was no statistically significant difference in the incidence of spinal instability between the two groups (P > 0.05). The operation time and intraoperative blood loss in the laminectomy group were less than those in the laminectomy group, and the drainage tube removal time was earlier than that in the laminectomy group. The difference was statistically significant (P < 0.05). At the final follow-up, there was no statistically significant difference in the pain VAS score, ODI score, and modified Macnab between the two groups (P > 0.05), but they were all significantly improved compared with preoperative ones. Fusion evaluation was conducted on the laminoplasty group. Two years after surgery, the fusion rate was 97.56% (40/41).
CONCLUSIONS: The application of laminospinous process ligament complex reimplantation combined with mini titanium plate fixation during thoracolumbar intraspinal tumor resection can effectively reconstruct the spinal canal and posterior column structure, reduce the incidence of cerebrospinal fluid leakage and secondary spinal stenosis. The laminar fusion rate is high.

Citation: Dai G, et al. Replantation of lamina spinous process ligament complex and miniature titanium plate shaping internal fixation in the treatment of tumors in the spinal canal. Replantation of lamina spinous process ligament complex and miniature titanium plate shaping internal fixation in the treatment of tumors in the spinal canal. 2023; 24:873. doi: 10.1186/s12891-023-06984-9

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37950233/
