PMID: 37957662
Title: Aortic annulus rupture after transcatheter aortic valve replacement: successful management of a dangerous complication.

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: Aortic annulus rupture remains one of the most fatal complications of TAVR. While attempts have been made to describe and predict this complication, the data remains insufficient without evidence-based guidelines for management of this rare complication.
METHODS: Here we describe a series of 3 aortic annulus ruptures after TAVR which were managed successfully to hospital discharge.
RESULTS: Patient 1 suffered annulus rupture during balloon valvuloplasty prior to TAVR. The patient became hypotensive, and echocardiogram showed pericardial effusion. The patient underwent pericardiocentesis which transiently improved the blood pressure, but bleeding continued. The patient was transitioned to an open surgical aortic valve replacement due to ongoing hemorrhage. The chest was left open with delayed closure on post-op day 2. The patient was discharged on post-op day 15. Patient 2 was undergoing TAVR valve expansion. The patient became hypotensive. An echocardiogram revealed pericardial effusion. Pericardiocentesis yielded 200 mL of blood. SURGIFLO (Johnson & Johnson Wound Management, Somerville, NJ) was injected into the pericardial space. Aortic root angiography confirmed no further contrast extravasation. A pericardial drain was left in place for 2 days, and the patient was discharged on post-op day 7. Patient 3 received a TAVR valve and post-placement dilation due to paravalvular leak. The echocardiogram showed a pericardial effusion. Pericardiocentesis was performed, yielding 500 cc of blood. The patient's healthcare proxy declined emergent surgery; thus, a pericardial drain was placed. No hemostatic agents were used, and drainage reduced over several hours. The drain was removed on post-op day 3, and the patient was discharged on post-op day 8.
CONCLUSIONS: Based on the timelines in these three cases, and interventions used, the following steps may be employed in the event of annulus rupture: identification of hemodynamic instability, echocardiogram to confirm pericardial effusion, emergent pericardiocentesis, pericardial drain placement for evacuation of the pericardial space and use of hemostatic agents, repeat aortogram to rule out ongoing extravasation. If hemostasis is unable to be achieved and/or the patient becomes hemodynamically unstable at any point, rapid transition to emergent surgical management is necessary. This management strategy proved successful for this case series and warrants further investigation.

Citation: Jones A, et al. Aortic annulus rupture after transcatheter aortic valve replacement: successful management of a dangerous complication. Aortic annulus rupture after transcatheter aortic valve replacement: successful management of a dangerous complication. 2023; 18:321. doi: 10.1186/s13019-023-02426-8

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37957662/
