PMID: 37958245
Title: Fractional Flow Reserve-Based Patient Risk Classification.

Abstract: Cardiovascular diseases (CVDs) are a leading cause of death. If not treated in a timely manner, cardiovascular diseases can cause a plethora of major life complications that can include disability and a loss of the ability to work. Globally, acute myocardial infarction (AMI) is responsible for about 3 million deaths a year. The development of strategies for prevention, but also the early detection of cardiovascular risks, is of great importance. The fractional flow reserve (FFR) is a measurement used for an assessment of the severity of coronary artery stenosis. The goal of this research was to develop a technique that can be used for patient fractional flow reserve evaluation, as well as for the assessment of the risk of death via gathered demographic and clinical data. A classification ensemble model was built using the random forest machine learning algorithm for the purposes of risk prediction. Referent patient classes were identified by the observed fractional flow reserve value, where patients with an FFR higher than 0.8 were viewed as low risk, while those with an FFR lower than 0.8 were identified as high risk. The final classification ensemble achieved a 76.21% value of estimated prediction accuracy, thus achieving a mean prediction accuracy of 74.1%, 77.3%, 78.1% and 83.6% over the models tested with 5%, 10%, 15% and 20% of the test samples, respectively. Along with the machine learning approach, a numerical approach was implemented through a 3D reconstruction of the coronary arteries for the purposes of stenosis monitoring. Even with a small number of available data points, the proposed methodology achieved satisfying results. However, these results can be improved in the future through the introduction of additional data, which will, in turn, allow for the utilization of different machine learning algorithms.

Citation: Stanojević Pirković M, et al. Fractional Flow Reserve-Based Patient Risk Classification. Fractional Flow Reserve-Based Patient Risk Classification. 2023; 13:(unknown pages). doi: 10.3390/diagnostics13213349

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37958245/
