PMID: 37950211
Title: High-resolution magnetic resonance imaging-based radiomic features aid in selecting endovascular candidates among patients with cerebral venous sinus thrombosis.

Abstract: OBJECTIVES: Cerebral venous sinus thrombosis (CVST) can cause sinus obstruction and stenosis, with potentially fatal consequences. High-resolution magnetic resonance imaging (HRMRI) can diagnose CVST qualitatively, although quantitative screening methods are lacking for patients refractory to anticoagulation therapy and who may benefit from endovascular treatment (EVT). Thus, in this study, we used radiomic features (RFs) extracted from HRMRI to build machine learning models to predict response to drug therapy and determine the appropriateness of EVT.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: RFs were extracted from three-dimensional T1-weighted motion-sensitized driven equilibrium (MSDE), T2-weighted MSDE, T1-contrast, and T1-contrast MSDE sequences to build radiomic signatures and support vector machine (SVM) models for predicting the efficacy of standard drug therapy and the necessity of EVT.
RESULTS: We retrospectively included 53 patients with CVST in a prospective cohort study, among whom 14 underwent EVT after standard drug therapy failed. Thirteen RFs were selected to construct the RF signature and CVST-SVM models. In the validation dataset, the sensitivity, specificity, and area under the curve performance for the RF signature model were 0.833, 0.937, and 0.977, respectively. The radiomic score was correlated with days from symptom onset, history of dyslipidemia, smoking, fibrin degradation product, and D-dimer levels. The sensitivity, specificity, and area under the curve for the CVST-SVM model in the validation set were 0.917, 0.969, and 0.992, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: The CVST-SVM model trained with RFs extracted from HRMRI outperformed the RF signature model and could aid physicians in predicting patient responses to drug treatment and identifying those who may require EVT.

Citation: Chang YZ, et al. High-resolution magnetic resonance imaging-based radiomic features aid in selecting endovascular candidates among patients with cerebral venous sinus thrombosis. High-resolution magnetic resonance imaging-based radiomic features aid in selecting endovascular candidates among patients with cerebral venous sinus thrombosis. 2023; 21:116. doi: 10.1186/s12959-023-00558-4

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37950211/
