PMID: 37957699
Title: ACSM5 inhibits ligamentum flavum hypertrophy by regulating lipid accumulation mediated by FABP4/PPAR signaling pathway.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Ligamentum flavum (LF) hypertrophy is the main cause of lumbar spinal canal stenosis (LSCS). Previous studies have shown that LF hypertrophy tissue exhibits abnormal lipid accumulation, but the regulatory mechanism remains unclear. The objective of this study was to explore the function and potential mechanism of ACSM5 in LF lipid accumulation.
METHODS: To assess the ACSM5 expression levels, lipid accumulation and triglyceride (TG) level in LF hypertrophy and normal tissue, we utilized RT-qPCR, western blot, oil red O staining, and TG assay kit. The pearson correlation coefficient assay was used to analyze the correlation between ACSM5 levels and lipid accumulation or TG levels in LF hypertrophy tissue. The role of ACSM5 in free fatty acids (FFA)-induced lipid accumulation in LF cells was assessed in vitro, and the role of ACSM5 in LF hypertrophy in mice was verified in vivo. To investigate the underlying mechanisms of ACSM5 regulating lipid accumulation in LF, we conducted the mRNA sequencing, bioinformatics analysis, and rescue experiments.
RESULTS: In this study, we found that ACSM5, which was significantly down-regulated in LF tissues, correlated with lipid accumulation. In vitro cell experiments demonstrated that overexpression of ACSM5 significantly inhibited FFA-induced lipid accumulation and fibrosis in LF cells. In vivo animal experiments further confirmed that overexpression of ACSM5 inhibited LF thickening, lipid accumulation, and fibrosis. Mechanistically, ACSM5 inhibited lipid accumulation of LF cells by inhibiting FABP4-mediated PPARγ signaling pathway, thereby improving hypertrophy and fibrosis of LF.
CONCLUSIONS: our findings elucidated the important role of ACSM5 in the regulation of LF lipid accumulation and provide insight into potential therapeutic interventions for the treatment of LF hypertrophy. This study further suggested that therapeutic strategies targeting lipid deposition may be an effective potential approach to treat LF hypertrophy-induced LSCS.

Citation: Cao Y, et al. ACSM5 inhibits ligamentum flavum hypertrophy by regulating lipid accumulation mediated by FABP4/PPAR signaling pathway. ACSM5 inhibits ligamentum flavum hypertrophy by regulating lipid accumulation mediated by FABP4/PPAR signaling pathway. 2023; 18:75. doi: 10.1186/s13062-023-00436-z

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37957699/
