PMID: 37953908
Title: Filter-type Protection Device Retrieval Interfered by Deployed Stent during Subclavian Artery Stenosis Treatment: Case Report and Complication Avoidance Recommendation.

Abstract: Endovascular treatment is a standard procedure for subclavian artery stenosis or obstruction. However, great care should be taken to avoid embolic complications to the vertebral artery, and several methods have previously been reported. Hence, as surgical procedures become increasingly complicated, unintended issues may arise during treatment. Here, the authors report a case where the filter-type protection device was caught in the stent because the patient moved during treatment, leading to open surgery to recover the filter-type protection device． A 78-year-old female suffering from a left subclavian steal syndrome underwent stenting due to subclavian artery stenosis. The stenotic lesion was approached via the transfemoral route, and a filter-type protection device was advanced to the vertebral artery via the transbrachial route to prevent embolic complications. As the procedure was performed under local anesthesia, the patient moved during stent deployment proximally to the left vertebral artery origin, and the stent unintentionally advanced distally, covering the vertebral artery and obstructing the retrieval catheter for the filter-type protection device to advance. Failed attempts in recovering the filter-type protection device required open surgery for retrieval. Fortunately, there was no postoperative neurological and radiographic complication, ameliorating her chief complaint． The retriever catheter for the protection device should be advanced beyond the vertebral artery orifice just proximal to the protection device before stenting to avoid such complications while also thoroughly considering the type of anesthesia during treatment．.

Citation: Mitsui N, et al. Filter-type Protection Device Retrieval Interfered by Deployed Stent during Subclavian Artery Stenosis Treatment: Case Report and Complication Avoidance Recommendation. Filter-type Protection Device Retrieval Interfered by Deployed Stent during Subclavian Artery Stenosis Treatment: Case Report and Complication Avoidance Recommendation. 2023; 10:279-283. doi: 10.2176/jns-nmc.2023-0146

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37953908/
