PMID: 37957528
Title: Biomechanical Evaluation of Aortic Valve Stenosis by Means of a Virtual Stress Test: A Fluid-Structure Interaction Study.

Abstract: The impact of aortic valve stenosis (AS) extends beyond the vicinity of the narrowed leaflets into the left ventricle (LV) and into the systemic vasculature because of highly unpredictable valve behavior and complex blood flow in the ascending aorta that can be attributed to the strong interaction between the narrowed cusps and the ejected blood. These effects can become exacerbated during exercise and may have implications for disease progression, accurate diagnosis, and timing of intervention. In this 3-D patient-specific study, we employ strongly coupled fluid-structure interaction (FSI) modeling to perform a comprehensive biomechanical evaluation of systolic ejection dynamics in a stenosed aortic valve (AV) during increasing LV contraction. Our model predictions reveal that the heterogeneous ∆P vs. Q relationship that was observed in our previous clinical study can be attributed to a non-linear increase (by ~ 1.5-fold) in aortic valve area as LV heart rate increases from 70 to 115 bpm. Furthermore, our results show that even for a moderately stenotic valve, increased LV contraction during exercise can lead to high-velocity flow turbulence (Re = 11,700) in the aorta similar to that encountered with a severely stenotic valve (Re ~ 10,000), with concomitant greater viscous loss (~3-fold increase) and elevated wall stress in the ascending aorta. Our FSI predictions also reveal that individual valve cusps undergo distinct and highly non-linear increases (>100%) in stress during exercise, potentially contributing to progressive calcification. Such quantitative biomechanical evaluations from realistic FSI workflows provide insights into disease progression and can be integrated with current stress testing for AS patients to comprehensively predict hemodynamics and valve function under both baseline and exercise conditions.

Citation: Govindarajan V, et al. Biomechanical Evaluation of Aortic Valve Stenosis by Means of a Virtual Stress Test: A Fluid-Structure Interaction Study. Biomechanical Evaluation of Aortic Valve Stenosis by Means of a Virtual Stress Test: A Fluid-Structure Interaction Study. 2024; 52:414-424. doi: 10.1007/s10439-023-03389-6

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37957528/
