PMID: 37959984
Title: Remote Outcomes with Poly-ε-Caprolactone Aortic Grafts in Rats.

Abstract: Poly-ε-caprolactone ((1,7)-polyoxepan-2-one; PCL) is a biodegradable polymer widely used in various fields of bioengineering, but its behavior in long-term studies appears to depend on many conditions, such as application specificity, chemical structure, in vivo test systems, and even environmental conditions in which the construction is exploited in. In this study, we offer an observation of the remote outcomes of PCL tubular grafts for abdominal aorta replacement in an in vivo experiment on a rat model. Adult Wistar rats were implanted with PCL vascular matrices and observed for 180 days. The results of ultrasound diagnostics and X-ray tomography (CBCT) show that the grafts maintained patency for the entire follow-up period without thrombosis, leakage, or interruptions, but different types of tissue reactions were found at this time point. By the day of examination, all the implants revealed a confluent endothelial monolayer covering layers of hyperplastic neointima formed on the luminal surface of the grafts. Foreign body reactions were found in several explants including those without signs of stenosis. Most of the scaffolds showed a pronounced infiltration with fibroblastic cells. All the samples revealed subintimal calcium phosphate deposits. A correlation between chondroid metaplasia in profound cells of neointima and the process of mineralization was supported by immunohistochemical (IHC) staining for S100 proteins and EDS mapping. Microscopy showed that the scaffolds with an intensive inflammatory response or formed fibrotic capsules retain their fibrillar structure even on day 180 after implantation, but matrices infiltrated with viable cells partially save the original fibrillary network. This research highlights the advantages of PCL vascular scaffolds, such as graft permeability, revitalization, and good surgical outcomes. The disadvantages are low biodegradation rates and exceptionally high risks of mineralization and intimal hyperplasia.

Citation: Dokuchaeva AA, et al. Remote Outcomes with Poly-ε-Caprolactone Aortic Grafts in Rats. Remote Outcomes with Poly-ε-Caprolactone Aortic Grafts in Rats. 2023; 15:(unknown pages). doi: 10.3390/polym15214304

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37959984/
