PMID: 37961724
Title: Integrated single-nuclei and spatial transcriptomic analysis reveals propagation of early acute vein harvest and distension injury signaling pathways following arterial implantation.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Vein graft failure (VGF) following cardiovascular bypass surgery results in significant patient morbidity and cost to the healthcare system. Vein graft injury can occur during autogenous vein harvest and preparation, as well as after implantation into the arterial system, leading to the development of intimal hyperplasia, vein graft stenosis, and, ultimately, bypass graft failure. While previous studies have identified maladaptive pathways that occur shortly after implantation, the specific signaling pathways that occur during vein graft preparation are not well defined and may result in a cumulative impact on VGF. We, therefore, aimed to elucidate the response of the vein conduit wall during harvest and following implantation, probing the key maladaptive pathways driving graft failure with the overarching goal of identifying therapeutic targets for biologic intervention to minimize these natural responses to surgical vein graft injury.
METHODS: Employing a novel approach to investigating vascular pathologies, we harnessed both single-nuclei RNA-sequencing (snRNA-seq) and spatial transcriptomics (ST) analyses to profile the genomic effects of vein grafts after harvest and distension, then compared these findings to vein grafts obtained 24 hours after carotid-cartoid vein bypass implantation in a canine model (n=4).
RESULTS: Spatial transcriptomic analysis of canine cephalic vein after initial conduit harvest and distention revealed significant enrichment of pathways (P &lt; 0.05) involved in the activation of endothelial cells (ECs), fibroblasts (FBs), and vascular smooth muscle cells (VSMCs), namely pathways responsible for cellular proliferation and migration and platelet activation across the intimal and medial layers, cytokine signaling within the adventitial layer, and extracellular matrix (ECM) remodeling throughout the vein wall. Subsequent snRNA-seq analysis supported these findings and further unveiled distinct EC and FB subpopulations with significant upregulation (P &lt; 0.00001) of markers related to endothelial injury response and cellular activation of ECs, FBs, and VSMCs. Similarly, in vein grafts obtained 24 hours after arterial bypass, there was an increase in myeloid cell, protomyofibroblast, injury-response EC, and mesenchymal-transitioning EC subpopulations with a concomitant decrease in homeostatic ECs and fibroblasts. Among these markers were genes previously implicated in vein graft injury, including VCAN (versican), FBN1 (fibrillin-1), and VEGFC (vascular endothelial growth factor C), in addition to novel genes of interest such as GLIS3 (GLIS family zinc finger 3) and EPHA3 (ephrin-A3). These genes were further noted to be driving the expression of genes implicated in vascular remodeling and graft failure, such as IL-6, TGFBR1, SMAD4, and ADAMTS9. By integrating the ST and snRNA-seq datasets, we highlighted the spatial architecture of the vein graft following distension, wherein activated and mesenchymal-transitioning ECs, myeloid cells, and FBs were notably enriched in the intima and media of distended veins. Lastly, intercellular communication network analysis unveiled the critical roles of activated ECs, mesenchymal transitioning ECs, protomyofibroblasts, and VSMCs in upregulating signaling pathways associated with cellular proliferation (MDK, PDGF, VEGF), transdifferentiation (Notch), migration (ephrin, semaphorin), ECM remodeling (collagen, laminin, fibronectin), and inflammation (thrombospondin), following distension.
CONCLUSIONS: Vein conduit harvest and distension elicit a prompt genomic response facilitated by distinct cellular subpopulations heterogeneously distributed throughout the vein wall. This response was found to be further exacerbated following vein graft implantation, resulting in a cascade of maladaptive gene regulatory networks. Together, these results suggest that distension initiates the upregulation of pathological pathways that may ultimately contribute to bypass graft failure and presents potential early targets warranting investigation for targeted therapies. This work highlights the first applications of single-nuclei and spatial transcriptomic analyses to investigate venous pathologies, underscoring the utility of these methodologies and providing a foundation for future investigations.

Citation: Michaud ME, et al. Integrated single-nuclei and spatial transcriptomic analysis reveals propagation of early acute vein harvest and distension injury signaling pathways following arterial implantation. Integrated single-nuclei and spatial transcriptomic analysis reveals propagation of early acute vein harvest and distension injury signaling pathways following arterial implantation. 2024; (unknown volume):(unknown pages). doi: 10.1101/2023.10.31.564995

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37961724/
