PMID: 37960789
Title: Single center two years' experience of Ozaki procedure: Early follow-up.

Abstract: The Ozaki Procedure is an innovative surgical technique aiming of aortic valve neocuspidization using glutaraldehyde-treated autologous pericardium was first developed by Ozaki et al in 2007. With this newly developed technique, valve replacement was achieved without using prosthetic material due to both aortic stenosis and aortic insufficiency. Between December 2020 and December 2022, a total of 59 patients were operated on with the Ozaki Procedure due to aortic valve pathologies in our center. We evaluated the pre- and postoperative as well as the first-month data of a total of 44 patients with isolated the Ozaki Procedure and compared their echocardiographic changes. Patients with isolated aortic valve pathology were included in the study. Fifteen patients who underwent simultaneous coronary artery bypass surgery and Ozaki Procedure were excluded from the analysis. In the first month after the operation, n:2 (%4.5) patients died. When the preoperative and postoperative 1st month echocardiographic data of the remaining patients were compared, it was found that the decrease in mean gradient, max gradient and peak velocity values in the aortic valve was statistically significant. This is due to the fact that reaching neo-valves has very similar hemodynamics to the native aortic valve. Aortic valve neocuspidization by Ozaki Procedure may be a viable alternative to both surgical aortic valve replacement (AVR) and transcatheter aortic valve implantation. Its popularity and application is increasing all over the world. Short and mid-term results are available in the literature. The short and mid-term results are good, and the long-term results are hopeful.

Citation: Ozden Y, et al. Single center two years' experience of Ozaki procedure: Early follow-up. Single center two years' experience of Ozaki procedure: Early follow-up. 2023; 102:e35935. doi: 10.1097/MD.0000000000035935

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37960789/
