PMID: 37968793
Title: Hemihysterectomy in a patient with uterus didelphys, vaginal septum and ipsilateral renal agenesis: A case report and literature review.

Abstract: Uterus didelphys is a rare Müllerian anomaly, often diagnosed during menarche or in women with a personal history of infertility and/or recurrent pregnancy loss. Its association with other genitourinary anomalies is frequent and may determine the existence of established syndromes. This case report refers to a 13-year-old female patient diagnosed with OHVIRA syndrome (Obstructed Hemivagina with Ipsilateral Renal Agenesis), a condition wherein the presence of a didelphic uterus is associated with hemivagina obstruction and ipsilateral renal agenesis. The patient presented with cyclic pelvic pain, related to the presence of hematocolpos and hematometra, which persisted despite several surgical approaches, including vaginal septum excision and correction of cervical stenosis. The recurrence of the condition indicated exploratory laparotomy, revealing two hemi-uteri and two uterine cervixes, with hematometra on the right. A subtotal hemihysterectomy was performed on the right. Post-procedure, the patient developed with regular menstrual cycles and improvement of pelvic pain complaints. Given the limited prevalence and low index of suspicion, the potential requirement for surgical intervention and its potential impact on reproductive future, diagnosing and treating OHVIRA syndrome and other Müllerian anomalies poses notable challenges in clinical practice. Hence, sharing different therapeutic approaches of a rare diagnosis with the scientific community is of paramount importance to aid in early diagnosis and effective management of similar clinical cases.

Citation: Peixoto Silva A, et al. Hemihysterectomy in a patient with uterus didelphys, vaginal septum and ipsilateral renal agenesis: A case report and literature review. Hemihysterectomy in a patient with uterus didelphys, vaginal septum and ipsilateral renal agenesis: A case report and literature review. 2024; 165:969-974. doi: 10.1002/ijgo.15247

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37968793/
