PMID: 37963550
Title: Elective carotid stenting fulfills quality standards defined in guidelines.

Abstract: PURPOSE:  According to evidence from randomized trials and current guidelines, elective carotid artery stenting (CAS) is still considered second-line therapy compared with carotid endarterectomy (CEA). However, the publication of randomized comparative trials for patients with symptomatic stenoses occurred well over 10 years ago. In view of problems regarding German quality assurance when differentiating elective from emergency interventions and low case numbers for CAS indications, it seemed reasonable to present neurologically controlled CAS results and to investigate whether elective CAS consistently fulfills the strict quality criteria and what differences exist with respect to emergency CAS interventions in acute ischemic stroke.
MATERIALS AND METHODS:  Between 01/2012 and 07/2022, 141 elective CAS procedures were performed to treat patients with symptomatic (n = 123) and asymptomatic (n = 18) stenoses. Protection by a filter system was achieved in 134 of these elective procedures (95 %). During the same period, 158 patients underwent carotid stenting for acute stroke. Complication rates were determined using neurologically controlled data. CAS-related complications (stent thrombosis, stent-associated vascular damage, thromboembolism, and symptomatic hemorrhage) were extracted from emergency interventions, and clinical outcome (NIHSS progression) was determined during the inpatient stay.
RESULTS:  The rate of stroke and death determined during the inpatient stay for elective symptomatic patients was 0.8 %. Early treatment within the first 7 days after the index event, age > 70 years, and operator experience were not significant risk factors for the occurrence of complications. No complications were observed after CAS of asymptomatic stenoses. The procedure-related complication rate for emergency procedures was 7.8 %, which was significantly higher than after elective CAS, as expected (p < 0.006).
CONCLUSION:  Even with limited indications and limited case numbers, compliance with the strict quality criteria of the current S3 Guideline 2022 for elective CAS interventions is possible for both symptomatic and asymptomatic stenoses in an experienced center. Emergency CAS interventions have significantly higher complication rates under other conditions and must be considered separately with regard to quality assurance.
KEY POINTS: · Elective carotid stenting fulfills the strict quality criteria of the current S3 guideline 2022.. · Emergency carotid stenting has significantly higher complication rates than elective procedures.. · Elective and emergency carotid stenting cannot be meaningfully compared..
CITATION FORMAT: · Keil F, Stahn S, Reitz SC et al. Elective carotid stenting fulfills quality standards defined in guidelines. Fortschr Röntgenstr 2024; 196: 471 - 481.

Citation: Keil F, et al. Elective carotid stenting fulfills quality standards defined in guidelines. Elective carotid stenting fulfills quality standards defined in guidelines. 2024; 196:471-481. doi: 10.1055/a-2175-4029

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37963550/
