PMID: 37963551
Title: MRI signs of intracranial hypertension in morbidly obese and normal-weight individuals.

Abstract: PURPOSE:  Idiopathic intracranial hypertension (IIH) is associated with intracranial abnormalities, although not obligatory, which can be detected with cranial MRI. Obesity is an important risk factor for IIH and a pathogenetic link is suspected but the extent to which these MRI signs are already related to obesity has not yet been examined. We investigated whether IIH-MRI signs are present more often in obese individuals with a BMI > 30 kg/m² than in individuals of normal weight.
MATERIALS AND METHODS:  Brain MRI of 32 obese and 53 normal-weight participants from the Food-Chain-Plus cohort were analyzed for three main signs of IIH: (I) stenosis of the transverse sinus, (II) increased width of the optic nerve sheath, and (III) reduction of pituitary height. In addition, a scoring system for the MRI signs was applied. Furthermore, tortuosity of the optic nerve and flattening of the posterior globe were considered as additional MRI signs.
RESULTS:  Obese participants had a significantly higher MRI score (p < 0.001) than those in the normal-weight cohort, with significant differences in quantitative measurements of cerebral venous sinus stenosis (p < 0.001), widening of the optic nerve sheath (p < 0.05), and flattening of the pituitary gland (p < 0.05) also always being observed more frequently and in a more pronounced manner in the obese group. Furthermore, our findings correlated significantly with BMI and proportionately with hip and waist circumference.
CONCLUSION:  Obese individuals show a significantly higher prevalence of cerebral MRI signs related to IIH. This supports the hypothesis that obesity is a risk factor for possible intracranial hypertension and reinforces the suspicion that obesity is involved in the pathomechanism of IIH.
KEY POINTS:   · Obesity is associated with changes such as those seen in IIH.. · BMI, weight, and body measurements correlate with the expression of MRI signs of IIH.. · To prevent IIH symptoms in obesity, the pathomechanism must be further clarified..

Citation: Schmill LA, et al. MRI signs of intracranial hypertension in morbidly obese and normal-weight individuals. MRI signs of intracranial hypertension in morbidly obese and normal-weight individuals. 2024; 196:176-185. doi: 10.1055/a-2114-1919

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37963551/
