PMID: 37968150
Title: A Novel Deformable Self-Assembled Magnetic Anastomosis Ring (DSAMAR) for Esophageal Stenosis Recanalization without Temporary Gastrostomy in Beagle Dogs.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: To assess the feasibility of a deformable self-assembled magnetic anastomosis ring (DSAMAR) in the treatment of esophageal stenosis in beagle dogs via transoral access without temporary gastrostomy.
METHODS: Experimental esophageal stenosis was created in 10 beagle dogs by partial cervical esophageal ligation. The DSAMAR was inserted into the distal esophagus via the narrow section of the esophagus using a gastroscope. A circular DSAMAR was placed in the proximal esophagus. The magnetic rings on both sides of the experimental stenosis automatically attracted each other. We then recorded the operation time, postoperative complications, anastomotic formation time, and magnetic ring discharge time. The dogs were euthanized 4 weeks postoperatively; subsequently, we obtained the esophageal anastomotic specimens and observed the anastomotic formation via the naked eye and by light microscopy.
RESULTS: Our esophageal stenosis model produced reproducible stenoses in all dogs, which was confirmed via endoscopy and esophagography. DSAMAR was successfully implanted in all experimental animals under endoscopic and X-ray monitoring, and all linear DSAMARs were successfully transformed into rings. The magnets at both ends of the esophageal stenosis were automatically attracted. All animals survived until euthanasia. No complications, including esophageal perforation, bleeding, and gastrointestinal obstruction, were noted during the perioperative period. The mean operation time of endoscopic magnetic anastomosis was 15.6 ± 2.41 (range, 12-19) min. The mean esophageal anastomotic formation time was 8.8 ± 1.03 (range, 7-10) days, and the mean expulsion time of DSAMAR was 13.94 ± 2.88 (range, 10-19) days. Gastroscopy and esophagography were performed at 4 weeks postoperatively; the esophageal patency was good. Macroscopic observation of the esophageal anastomotic specimens revealed that the esophageal mucosal layer of the anastomosis had good continuity and the anastomosis was smooth.
CONCLUSION: DSAMAR is a feasible option for magnetic recanalization of esophageal stricture via transoral access without temporary gastrostomy.

Citation: Zhang M, et al. A Novel Deformable Self-Assembled Magnetic Anastomosis Ring (DSAMAR) for Esophageal Stenosis Recanalization without Temporary Gastrostomy in Beagle Dogs. A Novel Deformable Self-Assembled Magnetic Anastomosis Ring (DSAMAR) for Esophageal Stenosis Recanalization without Temporary Gastrostomy in Beagle Dogs. 2024; 59:1204-1209. doi: 10.1016/j.jpedsurg.2023.10.032

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37968150/
