PMID: 37972791
Title: Long-Term Impact of Small Mitral Valve Orifice Area after Transcatheter Edge-to-Edge Mitral Valve Repair on Clinical Outcome: A Three-Dimensional Echocardiography Study.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Iatrogenic mitral stenosis is a complication associated with transcatheter edge-to-edge mitral valve repair. Some reports revealed the impact of mean transmitral pressure gradient after procedure on long-term clinical outcomes. However, the association between prognosis and mitral valve orifice area (MVA) after the procedure has been poorly studied. This study aimed to investigate the association between postprocedural small MVA, derived from three-dimensional (3D) transesophageal echocardiography (TEE), and long-term clinical outcomes in 2 cohorts: the degenerative mitral regurgitation (MR) cohort and the functional MR cohort.
METHODS: This retrospective study assessed 279 consecutive patients with 3D TEE data during transcatheter edge-to-edge mitral valve repair between January 2010 and December 2016. Mitral valve orifice area after device implantation was measured by 3D planimetry. The patients with degenerative and functional MR were stratified separately into 2 groups according to postprocedural MVA: normal MVA (MVA &gt; 1.5 cm2) group and small MVA (MVA ≤ 1.5 cm2) group.
RESULTS: Of the 279 patients, 142 (51%) had degenerative MR and 137 (49%) had functional MR. The number of degenerative MR patients with small MVA was 38, whereas 42 patients were in the functional MR cohort. Patients with small MVA had higher rate of all-cause mortality in the degenerative MR group (log-rank test: P = .01) but not in the functional MR group (log-rank test: P = .52). In multivariate analysis small MVA was independently associated with all-cause mortality but not postprocedural transmitral pressure gradient. Neither small MVA nor transmitral pressure gradient was associated with all-cause mortality in patients with functional MR.
CONCLUSION: Small MVA measured by 3D TEE after transcatheter mitral edge-to-edge repair was associated with poor prognosis in patients with degenerative MR.

Citation: Kagawa S, et al. Long-Term Impact of Small Mitral Valve Orifice Area after Transcatheter Edge-to-Edge Mitral Valve Repair on Clinical Outcome: A Three-Dimensional Echocardiography Study. Long-Term Impact of Small Mitral Valve Orifice Area after Transcatheter Edge-to-Edge Mitral Valve Repair on Clinical Outcome: A Three-Dimensional Echocardiography Study. 2024; 37:328-337. doi: 10.1016/j.echo.2023.11.007

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37972791/
