PMID: 37979721
Title: Combined Cardiac Damage Staging by Echocardiography and Cardiac Catheterization in Patients With Clinically Significant Aortic Stenosis.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Cardiac damage (CD) staging enhances risk stratification in patients with clinically significant aortic stenosis (AS). We aimed to assess the prognostic value and reclassification rate of right heart catheterization (RHC) compared with transthoracic echocardiography (TTE) in characterising CD staging at 3-year follow-up in patients with clinically significant AS, to identify patients that would benefit from RHC for prognostic stratification, and to test the prognostic value of combined CD staging.
METHODS: An observational cohort study of 432 AS patients undergoing TTE and RHC were divided into moderate or asymptomatic severe (m/asAS) and symptomatic severe (ssAS) AS. Kaplan-Meier curves were used to compare survival. The accuracy in prognostic stratification was tested by area under the receiver operating characteristic curve analysis and Delong test.
RESULTS: In both cohorts, TTE- and RHC-derived staging systems had prognostic value, although the agreement between them appeared moderate. A higher proportion of patients were assigned to stage 2 by TTE than by RHC. Patients in TTE-derived stage 2 had a high reclassification rate, with 40%-50% presenting with right chamber involvement (stages 3-4) according to RHC. Discordant cases were significantly older, with higher prevalence of atrial fibrillation, markedly elevated N-terminal pro-B-type natriuretic peptide, and higher indexed left atrial volume, E/e', and systolic pulmonary artery pressure vs concordant cases (P < 0.05). The combined CD staging, integrating TTE and RHC, was more accurate in predicting mortality than the TTE-derived system (P < 0.05).
CONCLUSIONS: In patients with m/asAS and ssAS, the combined CD staging, derived from TTE and RHC, was more accurate in predicting mortality than TTE alone. In a subset of AS patients, the integration of RHC may significantly improve prognostic stratification.

Citation: Belmonte M, et al. Combined Cardiac Damage Staging by Echocardiography and Cardiac Catheterization in Patients With Clinically Significant Aortic Stenosis. Combined Cardiac Damage Staging by Echocardiography and Cardiac Catheterization in Patients With Clinically Significant Aortic Stenosis. 2024; 40:643-654. doi: 10.1016/j.cjca.2023.11.010

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37979721/
