PMID: 37976610
Title: Real-time model-based cerebral perfusion calculation for ischemic stroke.

Abstract: BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES: Clinical diagnosis of ischemic stroke commonly relies on examining cerebral perfusion changes by using computed tomography perfusion (CTP) techniques. However, the radiation dose in CTP is quite higher in comparison to computed tomography angiography (CTA), with associated costs and time.
METHODS: Hence, this study established a lumped-parameter model (LPM) of brain tissue microcirculation (BTM) based on CTA, aiming to achieve real-time calculation of cerebral perfusion. After validation of calculated flow results with clinical data, the BTM-LPM model was used to examine the changes in cerebral perfusion following ischemic stroke, in which the effects of nine anatomical structures of the Circle of Willis (CoW) together with various distribution patterns of stenosis in the feeding arteries were considered.
RESULTS: When compared the calculated flow results from BTM-LPM with the clinically measured data of literature, the mean squared error (MSE) value for the feeding arteries was 3.9 % and its total value for microcirculatory flow in each region was 0.1 %. Notably, the calculation time was 35.6 s. In the case of the CoW missing the left and right posterior communicating artery, a 60 % stenosis of the basilar artery is likely to cause ischemic damage to some temporal and occipital lobes of the right and left hemispheres. While in the case of the CoW missing the anterior communicating artery and the left posterior communicating artery, ischemic damage to the entire frontal lobe and parts of the temporal and parietal lobes of the left hemisphere was found when 80 % stenosis occurred in the left internal carotid artery.
CONCLUSIONS: The BTM-LPM proposed in this study could accurately calculate cerebral perfusion in real time and demonstrated the importance of CoW anatomy in different ischemic injuries to cerebral tissue. The calculated cerebral perfusion would be a reference value for early diagnosis and preoperative planning of different ischemic injuries to cerebral tissue, thereby the BTM-LPM holds great promising for replacing CTP examination.

Citation: Sun H, et al. Real-time model-based cerebral perfusion calculation for ischemic stroke. Real-time model-based cerebral perfusion calculation for ischemic stroke. 2024; 243:107916. doi: 10.1016/j.cmpb.2023.107916

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37976610/
