PMID: 37983109
Title: Aortic luminal remodeling after intravascular stent therapy for coarctation of the aorta: intermediate results.

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: Outcomes after adult coarctation of the aorta (CoA) stenting is scant. We explored predictors of aortic remodeling after stent implantation and report early- and intermediate-term clinical outcomes.
METHODS: Adult patients who underwent stenting between July 2003 and December 2017 were included in this single-center retrospective study. We created a novel index of aortic volumetric and diameter changes using computed tomography (CT)/magnetic resonance (MR) images measured through TeraRecon and AngioQ. Predictors of aortic remodeling were explored using univariable linear regression analysis.
RESULTS: One hundred and thirty-four patients (mean age 35.2 years, 58.2% men) underwent CoA stenting. Paired aortic diameter measurements were available in 20 patients, and 40 paired patients in volumetric measurements. There was significant reduction in aortic diameter immediately proximal to the left carotid and subclavian arteries, and the aorta distal to the stenosis (P less than .05) at follow-up. There was a significant volumetric reduction in the ascending aorta, aortic arch, and the aortic segment most proximal to the top of the stent (P less than .05). Univariate predictors of aortic remodeling included sex, age, presence of previous surgical repair, aortic valve morphology, and the number of antihypertensive medications. Mean follow-up time was 4.0 ± 3.8 years, where 5% of patients underwent reintervention due to complications, 3% developed aneurysms, and 3% had stent fractures.
CONCLUSIONS: This study is the first to examine the anatomical changes that occur in the aorta post stent repair through analysis of serial imaging. Patients with stent-repaired coarctation demonstrated negative remodeling in multiple areas of the aorta with regards to the aortic diameter and volumetric measurements.

Citation: Pei L, et al. Aortic luminal remodeling after intravascular stent therapy for coarctation of the aorta: intermediate results. Aortic luminal remodeling after intravascular stent therapy for coarctation of the aorta: intermediate results. 2023; 35:(unknown pages). doi: 10.25270/jic/23.00124

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37983109/
