PMID: 37980634
Title: [Introduction of fiberoptic endoscopic evaluation of swallowing and increase of the range of indications in our department].

Abstract: Dysphagia is a disease resulting from preparatory or transport disorder of the swallowing process and it is divided into oropharyngeal and esophageal phases according to the site of the lesion. The ear, nose and throat assessment focuses on the oropharyngeal phase, but differential diagnosis, investigation, and treatment of the cause of dysphagia is often a complex task requiring multidisciplinary approach and collaboration. The method of fiberoptic endoscopic evaluation of swallowing (FEES) has been introduced at the Department of Ear, Nose and Throat and Head-Neck Surgery, University of Szeged, enabling the examination of otorhinolaryngological and neurological disorders of swallowing as well as objective analysis of patients' swallowing quality. The fiberoptic endoscopic evaluation of swallowing is a minimally invasive procedure that allows visualization of the oropharyngeal phase of swallowing. It can identify anatomical abnormalities or neurological disorders causing dysphagia, thus playing a significant role in later patient rehabilitation. We hereby present our experiences in examinations of patients who underwent partial laryngectomy and/or pharyngectomy due to head and neck tumors as well as of those who underwent airway surgery duo to upper airway stenosis. Thanks to our collaboration with the Neurology Department, we also share our experiences gained during the examinations of patients struggling with oropharyngeal swallowing problems of various neurological origins. Orv Hetil. 2023; 164(46): 1817-1823.

Citation: Ambrus A, et al. [Introduction of fiberoptic endoscopic evaluation of swallowing and increase of the range of indications in our department]. [Introduction of fiberoptic endoscopic evaluation of swallowing and increase of the range of indications in our department]. 2023; 164:1817-1823. doi: 10.1556/650.2023.32912

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37980634/
