PMID: 37981167
Title: The best method for erection function in urethroplasty; is excision and primary anastomosis or buccal mucosal graft urethroplasty?

Abstract: INTRODUCTION: The aim of this study is to evaluate and compare erection function (EF) after Excision and Primary Anastomosis Urethroplasty (EPAU) and Buccal Mucosal Graft Urethroplasty (BMGU) in bulbar urethral stricture.
METHODS: Patients who underwent urethroplasty were identified retrospectively. The criteria for inclusion in the study were determined as being over 18 years old and under 70 years old, being sexually active. Exclusion criteria are; preoperative severe erectile dysfunction, stricture outside the bulbar urethra, psychosocial incompatibility, urethral stricture related to pelvic fracture, follow-up time less than a year. As the primary endpoint, the International Index of Erectile Function-5 (IIEF-5) was determined as a comparison of EF in the preoperative and third, sixth and twelfth months after surgery. The secondary endpoint was the evaluation of the effects of demographic data, stricture and treatment characteristics on EF.
RESULTS: Fifty patients were identified considering the inclusion/exclusion criteria. It was observed that there were 30 patients who underwent EPAU and 20 patients who underwent BMGU. At the third month after surgery, EF showed a statistically significant decrease in the EPAU group. In both patient groups, it was observed that the early negative effects after the operation in EF started to improve in the sixth month and returned to the baseline level by the first year.
CONCLUSION: EPAU and BMGU techniques have a similar effect on EF in the medium and long term. Both methods can be used safely and effectively in the appropriate patient group.

Citation: Uğur R and Şimşek A. The best method for erection function in urethroplasty; is excision and primary anastomosis or buccal mucosal graft urethroplasty?. The best method for erection function in urethroplasty; is excision and primary anastomosis or buccal mucosal graft urethroplasty?. 2024; 48:170-176. doi: 10.1016/j.acuroe.2023.11.002

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37981167/
