PMID: 37980774
Title: Congenital infantile hypertrophic pyloric stenosis in preterm dizygotic twins infants diagnosed early: A case report.

Abstract: INTRODUCTION AND IMPORTANCE: The association in the occurrence of hypertrophic pyloric stenosis (HPS) is 0.25 % to 0.44 % between monozygotic twins and 0.05 % to 0.10 % in dizygotic twins. A combination of genetic and environmental factors may have contributed to the occurrence of HPS. In view of the few related cases reported recently, we present two dizygotic twins who were diagnosed with HPS.
CASE PRESENTATION: This report describes a rare case of congenital infantile hypertrophic pyloric stenosis in preterm dizygotic twins diagnosed early, in which the first case presented with severe clinical features and managed surgically while the second presented with moderate features and hence managed non-operatively with atropine for 14 days. At 6 months of age, both twins continued to tolerate feeds, demonstrated satisfactory weight gain and had achieved appropriate developmental milestones. The postoperative course was uneventful in the twin A.
CLINICAL DISCUSSION: Congenital HPS in premature twins remains an underdiagnosed pathology due to its clinical picture mimicking digestive intolerance to feeds. The mean age at diagnosis is about 38 days, and only 0.4 % of all children suffering from HPS show symptoms in the first 3 days of life. Symptom relief is achieved after a classic pyloromyotomy is performed by a more preferable laparoscopic technique or using the open surgical technique.
CONCLUSION: If one of the dizygotic twins has HPS, the other baby should be evaluated for the same diagnosis as early as possible, to ensure timely management. HPS with moderate clinical features can be treated with atropine for 14 days while severe HPS should be treated by pyloromyotomy.

Citation: Bienfait MM, et al. Congenital infantile hypertrophic pyloric stenosis in preterm dizygotic twins infants diagnosed early: A case report. Congenital infantile hypertrophic pyloric stenosis in preterm dizygotic twins infants diagnosed early: A case report. 2023; 113:109069. doi: 10.1016/j.ijscr.2023.109069

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37980774/
