PMID: 37983106
Title: A case series of novel technique of coronary protection for patients with low coronary height undergoing transcatheter aortic valve implantation.

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: Coronary artery occlusion (CAO) in patients undergoing transcatheter aortic valve implantation (TAVI) is rare but is associated with up to 50% mortality risk. We report a case series of a novel technique of coronary protection for patients undergoing TAVI at high risk of CAO.
METHODS: Patients with symptomatic severe aortic stenosis scheduled for TAVI and at high risk of CAO were included. A noncompliant coronary angioplasty balloon was placed between the left coronary artery and the transcatheter heart valve. The distal "nose" of the balloon was positioned at the ostium of the left main and its main body "hanging" in the aorta. The coronary balloon was sized 1:1 to the left main, and simultaneous kissing balloon inflation was performed during valve deployment.
RESULTS: Eight patients were included in this series. Five patients had previous isolated surgical bioprosthetic valves. The median left coronary height was 7.1 (6.0-8.4) mm with a median valve-to-coronary (VTC) distance of 3.3 (2.9-3.6) mm. There were no procedural complications, but one patient had a stroke during their in-hospital stay. After a median follow up of 12 (5.8-16.8) months, there were no mortality or rehospitalization events.
CONCLUSION: Simultaneous kissing balloon is a novel technique of coronary protection in patients undergoing TAVI at high risk of CAO. Further studies are required to establish the safety of this novel technique.

Citation: Alkhalil M, et al. A case series of novel technique of coronary protection for patients with low coronary height undergoing transcatheter aortic valve implantation. A case series of novel technique of coronary protection for patients with low coronary height undergoing transcatheter aortic valve implantation. 2023; 35:(unknown pages). doi: 10.25270/jic/23.00146

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37983106/
