PMID: 37985612
Title: Hemispheric coupling between structural and functional asymmetries in clinically asymptomatic carotid stenosis with cognitive impairment.

Abstract: Advanced carotid stenosis is a known risk factor for ischemic stroke and vascular dementia, and it is associated with multidomain cognitive impairment as well as asymmetric alterations in hemispheric structure and function. Here we introduced a novel measure-the asymmetry index of amplitude of low-frequency fluctuations (ALFF_AI)-derived from resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging. This measure captures the hemispheric asymmetry of intrinsic brain activity using high-dimensional registration. We aimed to investigate functional brain asymmetric alterations in patients with severe asymptomatic carotid stenosis (SACS). Furthermore, we extended the analyses of ALFF_AI to different frequencies to detect frequency-specific alterations. Finally, we examined the coupling between hemispheric asymmetric structure and function and the relationship between these results and cognitive tests, as well as the white matter hyperintensity burden. SACS patients presented significantly decreased ALFF_AI in several clusters, including the visual, auditory, parahippocampal, Rolandic, and superior parietal regions. At low frequencies (0.01-0.25 Hz), the ALFF_AI exhibited prominent group differences as frequency increased. Further structure-function coupling analysis indicated that SACS patients had lower coupling in the lateral prefrontal, superior medial frontal, middle temporal, superior parietal, and striatum regions but higher coupling in the lateral occipital regions. These findings suggest that, under potential hemodynamic burden, SACS patients demonstrate asymmetric hemispheric configurations of intrinsic activity patterns and a decoupling between structural and functional asymmetries.

Citation: Fan C, et al. Hemispheric coupling between structural and functional asymmetries in clinically asymptomatic carotid stenosis with cognitive impairment. Hemispheric coupling between structural and functional asymmetries in clinically asymptomatic carotid stenosis with cognitive impairment. 2024; 18:192-206. doi: 10.1007/s11682-023-00823-0

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37985612/
