PMID: 37982158
Title: A systematic algorithm for large-bore arterial access closure after TAVI: the TAVI-MultiCLOSE study.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Despite transcatheter aortic valve implantation (TAVI) having become a routine procedure, access site bleeding and vascular complications are still a concern which contribute to procedure-related morbidity and mortality.
AIMS: The TAVI-MultiCLOSE study aimed to assess the safety and efficacy of a new vascular closure algorithm for percutaneous large-bore arterial access closure following transfemoral (TF)-TAVI.
METHODS: All consecutive TF-TAVI cases in which the MultiCLOSE vascular closure algorithm was used were prospectively included in a multicentre, observational study. This stepwise algorithm entails the reinsertion of a 6-8 Fr sheath (primary access) following the initial preclosure with one or two suture-based vascular closure devices (VCDs). This provides the operator with the opportunity to perform a quick and easy angiographic control and tailor the final vascular closure with either an additional suture- or plug-based VCD, or neither of these.
RESULTS: Among 630 patients who underwent TF-TAVI utilising the MultiCLOSE algorithm, complete arterial haemostasis was achieved in 616 patients (98%). VCD failure occurred in 14 patients (2%), treated with either balloon inflation (N=1), covered stent (N=12) or surgical repair (N=1). Overall, this vascular closure approach resulted in a minor and major vascular complication rate of 2.2% and 0.6%, respectively. At 30 days, only one new minor vascular complication (0.2%) was noted. In-hospital and 30-day all-cause mortality rates were 0.2% and 1.0%, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: Use of the MultiCLOSE vascular closure algorithm was demonstrated to contribute to an easy, safe, efficacious and durable vascular closure after TF-TAVI, resulting in a major vascular complication rate of less than 1%.

Citation: Rosseel L, et al. A systematic algorithm for large-bore arterial access closure after TAVI: the TAVI-MultiCLOSE study. A systematic algorithm for large-bore arterial access closure after TAVI: the TAVI-MultiCLOSE study. 2024; 20:e354-e362. doi: 10.4244/EIJ-D-23-00725

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37982158/
