PMID: 37990264
Title: Association of central sensitization, visceral fat, and surgical outcomes in lumbar spinal stenosis.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Controversy remains regarding predictors of surgical outcomes for patients with lumbar spinal stenosis (LSS). Pain sensitization may be an underlying mechanism contributing to LSS surgical outcomes. Further, obesity is associated with dissatisfaction and poorer outcomes after surgery for LSS. Therefore, this study aimed to examine the relationship between central sensitization (CS), visceral fat, and surgical outcomes in LSS.
METHODS: Patients with LSS were categorized based on their central sensitization inventory (CSI) scores into low- (CSI < 40) and high- (CSI ≥ 40) CSI subgroups. The participants completed clinical outcome assessments preoperatively and 12 months postoperatively.
RESULTS: Overall, 60 patients were enrolled in the study (28 men, 32 women; mean age: 62.1 ± 2.8 years). The high-CSI group had significantly higher mean low back pain (LBP), leg pain, and leg numbness visual analogue scale (VAS) scores than the low-CSI group (p < 0.01). The high-CSI group had a significantly higher mean visceral fat area than the low-CSI group (p < 0.01). Postoperatively, LBP VAS score was significantly worse in the high-CSI group. Relative to preoperatively, postoperative leg pain and leg numbness improved significantly in both groups.
CONCLUSIONS: We believe that neuro decompression can be effective for LSS surgical outcomes in patients with CS; nonetheless, it should be approached with caution owing to the potential for worsening LBP. Additionally, visceral fat is an important indicator suggesting the involvement of CS.

Citation: Ogon I, et al. Association of central sensitization, visceral fat, and surgical outcomes in lumbar spinal stenosis. Association of central sensitization, visceral fat, and surgical outcomes in lumbar spinal stenosis. 2023; 18:886. doi: 10.1186/s13018-023-04376-2

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37990264/
