PMID: 37997039
Title: Analysis and numerical investigation of bile flow dynamics within the strictured biliary duct.

Abstract: The mechanics of bile flow in the biliary system plays an important role in studying bile stasis and gallstone formation. Bile duct stricture is an abnormal phenomenon that refers to the bile duct getting smaller or narrower. The main objective of this study is to study the influence of stricture on bile flow dynamics using numerical methods. We employed a numerical Computational Fluid Dynamics model of the bile flow within a strictured hepatic duct. We studied and compared the influence of stricture severity, stricture length, eccentricity, and bile flow property on the bile flow dynamics. The bile flow velocity, pressure distribution, pressure drop, and wall shear stress are provided in detail. The stricture alters the normal bile flow pattern and increases flow resistance. At the location upstream and downstream of the stricture, bile flow slows down. In the area of the stricture throat, bile flow is accelerated, and recirculation forms behind the stricture. The maximum pressure drop of the biliary system increases with the stricture length. The eccentricity makes the flow deflect away from the duct's centerline. The behavior of the deflected flow is significantly altered downstream of the stricture. Such bile flow behavior as deceleration and recirculation may lead to cholestasis. Stricture alters bile flow in the biliary tract, causing changes in biliary hydrodynamic indexes, which could potentially serve as an omen for gallstone formation and other related diseases. The consideration of the bile duct stricture could lead to better patient stratification.

Citation: Peng T, et al. Analysis and numerical investigation of bile flow dynamics within the strictured biliary duct. Analysis and numerical investigation of bile flow dynamics within the strictured biliary duct. 2024; 40:e3790. doi: 10.1002/cnm.3790

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37997039/
