PMID: 37992309
Title: Cervical corpectomy in a pediatric patient with chondrodysplasia punctata and C5 dysplasia with spinal cord compression: illustrative case.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Chondrodysplasia punctata (CDP) describes skeletal dysplasia secondary to a variety of genetic underpinnings characterized by cartilaginous stippling from abnormal calcium deposition during endochondral bone formation. Approximately 20%-38% of patients with CDP have cervical spine abnormalities, resulting in stenosis and cord compression. However, approaches to management differ among patients.
OBSERVATIONS: The authors present an 18-year-old male with a known history of CDP and cervical kyphosis with worsening paresthesias and increased spasticity. Imaging confirmed dysplastic C4 and C5 vertebra with focal kyphosis, bony retropulsion, spinal cord compression, and myelomalacia. To treat the stenosis and deformity, the patient underwent C4 and C5 vertebrectomies with C3 to C6 anterior fusion with resolution of symptoms.
LESSONS: Despite many CDP patients having cervical deformities with spinal cord compression and associated neurological symptoms, there is a paucity of data on surgical management and outcomes. There are only scattered reports, and most authors recommend initial conservative management because of the high risk of operative morbidity and mortality secondary to comorbidities. When surgery is performed, long-term follow-up is recommended because of the high rates of progression of deformity, requiring subsequent operations. The authors hope that their experience adds to the literature describing the surgical management of cervical deformities in these patients.

Citation: Patel NP, et al. Cervical corpectomy in a pediatric patient with chondrodysplasia punctata and C5 dysplasia with spinal cord compression: illustrative case. Cervical corpectomy in a pediatric patient with chondrodysplasia punctata and C5 dysplasia with spinal cord compression: illustrative case. 2023; 6:(unknown pages). doi: 10.3171/CASE23302

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37992309/
