PMID: 37998528
Title: The Predictors and Outcomes of Functional Mitral Stenosis following Surgical Mitral Valve Repair: A Retrospective Analysis.

Abstract: To optimize mitral valve repair outcomes, it is crucial to comprehend the predictors of functional mitral valve stenosis (FMS), to enhance preoperative assessments, and to adapt intraoperative treatment strategies. This study aimed to identify FMS risk factors, contributing valuable insights for refining surgical techniques. Among 228 selected patients, 215 underwent postoperative echocardiography follow-ups, and 36 met the FMS criteria based on a mean trans-mitral pressure gradient of >5 mmHg. Patients with FMS exhibited higher pulmonary systolic arterial pressure and increased late mortality during the follow-up. Univariable logistic regression analysis identified several risk factors for FMS, including end-stage renal disease, anterior leaflet lesion, concomitant aortic valve replacement, smaller ring size, ring type, and neochordae implantation. Conversely, resection alone and resection combined with neochordae implantation had protective effects against FMS. Multivariable logistic regression analysis revealed that smaller ring sizes and patch repair independently predicted FMS. When focusing on degenerative mitral regurgitation, the neochordae implantation without resection in leaflet repair, emerged as an independent predictor of FMS. Surgeons should weigh the substantial impact of surgical procedures on postoperative trans-mitral pressure gradients, emphasizing preoperative evaluation and techniques such as precise ring size assessment and effective leaflet management.

Citation: Hu YN, et al. The Predictors and Outcomes of Functional Mitral Stenosis following Surgical Mitral Valve Repair: A Retrospective Analysis. The Predictors and Outcomes of Functional Mitral Stenosis following Surgical Mitral Valve Repair: A Retrospective Analysis. 2023; 10:(unknown pages). doi: 10.3390/jcdd10110470

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37998528/
