PMID: 37996309
Title: Novel Targets for Molecular Imaging of Inflammatory Processes of Carotid Atherosclerosis: A Systematic Review.

Abstract: Computed tomography angiography (CTA), magnetic resonance angiography (MRA) and 18F-FDG-PET have proven clinical value when evaluating patients with carotid atherosclerosis. In this systematic review, we will focus on the role of novel molecular imaging tracers in that assessment and their potential strengths to stratify stroke risk. We systematically searched PubMed, Embase, the Web of Science Core Collection, and Cochrane Library for articles reporting on molecular imaging to noninvasively detect or characterize inflammation in carotid atherosclerosis. As our focus was on nonclassical novel targets, we omitted reports solely on 18F-FDG and 18F-NaF. We summarized and mapped the selected studies to provide an overview of the current clinical development in molecular imaging in relation to risk factors, imaging and histological findings, diagnostic and prognostic performance. We identified 20 articles in which the utilized tracers to visualize carotid wall inflammation were somatostatin subtype-2- (SST2-) (n = 5), CXC-motif chemokine receptor 4- (CXCR4-) (n = 3), translocator protein- (TSPO-) (n = 2) and aVβ3 integrin-ligands (n = 2) and choline-tracers (n = 2). Tracer uptake correlated with traditional cardiovascular risk factors, that is, age, gender, diabetes, hypercholesterolemia, and hypertension as well as prior cardiovascular disease. We identified discrepancies between tracer uptake and grade of stenosis, plaque calcification, and 18F-FDG uptake, suggesting the importance of alternative characterization of atherosclerosis beyond classical neuroimaging features. Immunohistochemical analysis linked tracer uptake to markers of macrophage infiltration and neovascularization. Symptomatic carotid arteries showed higher uptake compared to asymptomatic (including contralateral, nonculprit) arteries. Some studies demonstrated a potential role of these novel molecular imaging as a specific intermediary (bio)marker for outcome. Several novel tracers show promise for identification of high-risk plaque inflammation. Based on the current evidence we cautiously propose the SST2-ligands and the choline radiotracers as viable candidates for larger prospective longitudinal outcome studies to evaluate their predictive use in clinical practice.

Citation: Maes L, et al. Novel Targets for Molecular Imaging of Inflammatory Processes of Carotid Atherosclerosis: A Systematic Review. Novel Targets for Molecular Imaging of Inflammatory Processes of Carotid Atherosclerosis: A Systematic Review. 2024; 54:658-673. doi: 10.1053/j.semnuclmed.2023.10.004

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37996309/
