PMID: 37990247
Title: Total laparoscopic total gastrectomy and distal esophagectomy combined with reconstruction by transhiatal esophagojejunal Roux-en-y mediastinal anastomosis for Siewert II AEG.

Abstract: PURPOSE: The optimal procedure is still controversial about Siewert type II AEG, We are attempt to explore the efficacy and feasibility of total laparoscopic total gastrectomy and distal esophagectomy combined with reconstruction by transhiatal esophagojejunal Roux-en-y mediastinal anastomosis for Siewert type II AEG.
METHOD: Data of patients with Siewert type II AEG who received total laparoscopic total gastrectomy and distal esophagectomy combined with reconstruction by transhiatal esophagojejunal Roux-en-y mediastinal anastomosis in the Hebei General Hospital were collected from October 2020 to October 2021, The operation time, surgical blood loss, the number of dissected lymph nodes, duration of drainage tube, the length of stay in ICU, the resume oral feeding time, the length of postoperative hospital stay, postoperative complications and other related indicators of the patients were collected to evaluate the safety and feasibility of this operation.
RESULT: A total of 17 patients received total laparoscopic total gastrectomy and distal esophagectomy combined with reconstruction by transhiatal esophagojejunal Roux-en-y mediastinal anastomosisin the treatment of Siewert type II AEG were analyzed in our research. The mean operation time was 253 ± 24.8 min (196-347 min); The median surgical blood loss was 250 ml (20-2400 ml); The average number of dissected lymph nodes were 28 ± 4.6 (17-36); The median duration of drainage tube was 5 days (3-7days); The median length of stay in ICU was 18 h(10-34 h); The median time of resume oral feeding was 6 days (5-7days); The median postoperative hospital stay was 11 days (8-15 days). Among the all enrolled patients, one patient underwent the conversion to laparotomy due to the massive intraoperative bleeding, one patient developed anastomotic stenosis at jejunum side-to-side anastomosis on the first month after surgery, there was no case of death during the operation and postoperative anastomotic fistula. All patients achieved R0 resection with an average distance of 6 cm (4-8.5 cm) from the upper margin of the tumor to the resection margin.
CONCLUSION: The operation of total laparoscopic total gastric and distal esophagectomy combined with reconstruction by transhiatal esophagojejunal Roux-en-y mediastinal anastomosis is technically feasible and sufficiently safe in the treatment of Seiwert type II AEG from our primary clinical experience. This procedure could be one of the alternatives for the radical treatment of Siewert type II AEG.

Citation: Yin Q, et al. Total laparoscopic total gastrectomy and distal esophagectomy combined with reconstruction by transhiatal esophagojejunal Roux-en-y mediastinal anastomosis for Siewert II AEG. Total laparoscopic total gastrectomy and distal esophagectomy combined with reconstruction by transhiatal esophagojejunal Roux-en-y mediastinal anastomosis for Siewert II AEG. 2023; 18:339. doi: 10.1186/s13019-023-02453-5

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37990247/
