PMID: 37996900
Title: Congenital duodenal web causing partial obstruction with recurrent vomiting and abdominal distention in a toddler boy: a case report.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: The duodenal web is a thin, elongated, web-like structure that is one of the factors contributing to duodenal obstruction. Only 100 cases have been reported in the literature. We present a 2.5-year-old cachectic Afghan child who did not have any overt signs and symptoms of intestinal obstruction, like recurrent vomiting, abdominal distention, and weight loss. The web was discovered near the intersection of the third and fourth portions, which is an uncommon location for the duodenal web. The late presentation of congenital duodenal web with partial obstruction is rare but well-known and has been reported in this case.
CASE PRESENTATION: A 2.5-year-old cachectic Afghan child who had recurrent vomiting and experienced abdominal distention was brought to Maiwand Teaching Hospital from the Jabelsuraj region of Parwan province. The patient was suffering from unusual signs and symptoms like recurrent vomiting, abdominal distention, weight loss, and constipation. The diagnosis of these anomalies was established by a detailed history, clinical features, and abdominal CT scan. In the computerized tomography scanning (CT-Scan) image reported, there was a web with stenosis and partial obstruction in the distal aspect of the third-to-fourth portion of the duodenum. After preoperative stabilization, the child was taken for surgery. The abdomen was opened by a right upper abdominal transverse incision. After web resection and duodenoplasty, the patient was shifted to the recovery room in satisfactory condition. The child was allowed to feed after 8 days, which he tolerated well.
CONCLUSION: Congenital duodenal web with partial obstruction is typically observed in the second and third years of life. It is suspected in patients with recurrent vomiting, abdominal distention, weight loss, and constipation. Partial obstruction may not have an overt presentation, making it a challenging diagnosis for general practitioners. Abdomen X-ray and CT scan usually confirm the diagnosis, and successful surgical intervention is recommended.

Citation: Ekram K, et al. Congenital duodenal web causing partial obstruction with recurrent vomiting and abdominal distention in a toddler boy: a case report. Congenital duodenal web causing partial obstruction with recurrent vomiting and abdominal distention in a toddler boy: a case report. 2023; 17:507. doi: 10.1186/s13256-023-04179-3

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37996900/
