PMID: 37995382
Title: Magnetocardiography-based coronary artery disease severity assessment and localization using spatiotemporal features.

Abstract: Objective.This study aimed to develop an automatic and accurate method for severity assessment and localization of coronary artery disease (CAD) based on an optically pumped magnetometer magnetocardiography (MCG) system.Approach.We proposed spatiotemporal features based on the MCG one-dimensional signals, including amplitude, correlation, local binary pattern, and shape features. To estimate the severity of CAD, we classified the stenosis as absence or mild, moderate, or severe cases and extracted a subset of features suitable for assessment. To localize CAD, we classified CAD groups according to the location of the stenosis, including the left anterior descending artery (LAD), left circumflex artery (LCX), and right coronary artery (RCA), and separately extracted a subset of features suitable for determining the three CAD locations.Main results.For CAD severity assessment, a support vector machine (SVM) achieved the best result, with an accuracy of 75.1%, precision of 73.9%, sensitivity of 67.0%, specificity of 88.8%, F1-score of 69.8%, and area under the curve of 0.876. The highest accuracy and corresponding model for determining locations LAD, LCX, and RCA were 94.3% for the SVM, 84.4% for a discriminant analysis model, and 84.9% for the discriminant analysis model.Significance. The developed method enables the implementation of an automated system for severity assessment and localization of CAD. The amplitude and correlation features were key factors for severity assessment and localization. The proposed machine learning method can provide clinicians with an automatic and accurate diagnostic tool for interpreting MCG data related to CAD, possibly promoting clinical acceptance.

Citation: Han X, et al. Magnetocardiography-based coronary artery disease severity assessment and localization using spatiotemporal features. Magnetocardiography-based coronary artery disease severity assessment and localization using spatiotemporal features. 2023; 44:(unknown pages). doi: 10.1088/1361-6579/ad0f70

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37995382/
