PMID: 38003891
Title: Lasso Analysis of Gait Characteristics and Correlation with Spinopelvic Parameters in Patients with Degenerative Lumbar Scoliosis.

Abstract: PURPOSE: This study quantifies the gait characteristics of patients with degenerative lumbar scoliosis (DLS) and patients with simple lumbar spinal stenosis (LSS) by means of a three-dimensional gait analysis system, aiming to determine the image of spinal deformity on gait and the correlation between spinal-pelvic parameters and gait characteristics in patients with DLS to assist clinical work.
METHODS: From June 2020 to December 2021, a total of 50 subjects were enrolled in this study, of whom 20 patients with DLS served as the case group and 30 middle-aged and elderly patients with LSS were selected as the control group according to the general conditions (sex, age, and BMI) of the case group. Spinal-pelvic parameters were measured by full-length frontal and lateral spine films one week before surgery, and kinematics were recorded on the same day using a gait analysis system.
RESULTS: Compared to the control group, DLS patients exhibited significantly reduced velocity and cadence; gait variability and symmetry of both lower limbs were notably better in the LSS group than in the DLS group; joint ROM (range of motion) across multiple dimensions was also lower in the DLS group; and correlation analysis revealed that patients with a larger Cobb angle, T1PA, and higher CSVA tended to walk more slowly, and those with a larger PI, PT, and LL usually had smaller stride lengths. The greater the PI-SS mismatch, the longer the patient stayed in the support phase. Furthermore, a larger Cobb angle correlated with worse coronal hip mobility.
CONCLUSIONS: DLS patients demonstrate distinctive gait abnormalities and reduced hip mobility compared to LSS patients. Significant correlations between crucial spinopelvic parameters and these gait changes underline their potential influence on gait disturbances in DLS. Our study identifies a Cobb angle cut-off of 16.1 as a key predictor for gait abnormalities. These insights can guide personalized treatment and intervention strategies, ultimately improving the quality of life for DLS patients.

Citation: Guo C, et al. Lasso Analysis of Gait Characteristics and Correlation with Spinopelvic Parameters in Patients with Degenerative Lumbar Scoliosis. Lasso Analysis of Gait Characteristics and Correlation with Spinopelvic Parameters in Patients with Degenerative Lumbar Scoliosis. 2023; 13:(unknown pages). doi: 10.3390/jpm13111576

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38003891/
