PMID: 38000995
Title: Association between atherogenic index of plasma and asymptomatic intracranial arterial stenosis in middle-aged and elderly women: A cross-sectional study in Shandong, China.

Abstract: BACKGROUND AND AIMS: The atherogenic index of plasma (AIP) is associated with progression of atherosclerosis and used to describe how pro- or anti-atherogenic components are balanced. However, the association of AIP with asymptomatic intracranial arterial stenosis (aICAS) is uncertain. The purpose of this study is to investigate the association between AIP and aICAS in rural China.
METHODS AND RESULTS: A total of 1990 participants aged ≥40 years free of stroke or transient ischemic attack were enrolled in this study. The presence of aICAS was examined by Transcranial Doppler ultrasound and confirmed by magnetic resonance angiography. The adjusted AIP (aAIP) was calculated according to the ratio of TG and HDL-C and further separated into 4 quartiles. Multiple logistic regression was used to investigate the association between aAIP and aICAS, and the dose-response relationship was explored by restricted cubic spline. After adjusting for conventional confounders, aAIP was significantly higher in the aICAS group than that in the non-aICAS group. Furthermore, the common odds ratios for aICAS risk increased with increasing aAIP quartiles. Multivariate logistic regression revealed that aAIP was independently associated with aICAS in female or middle-aged and elderly (age ≥50 years), and superior to other lipid profiles. Multiple-adjusted spline regression showed the dose-response association between aAIP levels and aICAS prevalence.
CONCLUSIONS: AIP might be independently and positively associated with the prevalence of aICAS in middle-aged and elderly women, which might be superior to traditional and nontraditional lipid profiles in rural China.

Citation: Xue Y, et al. Association between atherogenic index of plasma and asymptomatic intracranial arterial stenosis in middle-aged and elderly women: A cross-sectional study in Shandong, China. Association between atherogenic index of plasma and asymptomatic intracranial arterial stenosis in middle-aged and elderly women: A cross-sectional study in Shandong, China. 2024; 34:598-605. doi: 10.1016/j.numecd.2023.09.028

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38000995/
