PMID: 38006998
Title: Outcomes of coronary artery obstructions after the arterial switch operation for transposition of the great arteries.

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: Coronary obstruction is a rare but common complication of the arterial switch operation for transposition of the great arteries. The majority of patients remain asymptomatic and no risk factors allow targeting for reinforced surveillance. We aim to review the natural history of patients diagnosed with coronary obstruction after arterial switch operation for transposition of the great arteries and occurrence of coronary-related outcomes.
METHODS: We retrospectively reviewed medical records of the 102 patients diagnosed with coronary obstruction after arterial switch operation for transposition of the great arteries in our institution from 1981 to 2022. Outcomes were anti-ischemic treatment introduction, revascularization (surgical or percutaneous angioplasty), and death; investigations that motivated revascularization were also reviewed.
RESULTS: Twenty-eight out of 102 patients presented with myocardial ischemia during the immediate postoperative phase, 31 were diagnosed when symptomatic, and 43 were identified at the presymptomatic stage, according to our screening policy in preschool-aged children. Stenosis-related event occurrence was, respectively, 29 out of 31 and 32 out of 43 in the latter 2 subgroups. Coronary-related mortality reached 10% in patients diagnosed when symptomatic; no patients died in the presymptomatic subgroup. Of the 28 low-risk patients with no signs of ischemia at diagnosis, 10 developed obstruction warranting reintervention during follow-up. Revascularization was motivated by appearance of symptoms in patients with severe stenosis in normal coronary dispositions, and by clinical symptoms or documented silent ischemia in abnormal coronary patterns.
CONCLUSIONS: Occurrence of stenosis-related events remains significant in patients after arterial switch operation, underlining the importance of early diagnosis for timely intervention. Initial anatomical evaluation identifies stenotic and at-risk patients; this will require periodical function testing. Follow-up modalities can be tailored to a patient's individual anatomic characteristics.

Citation: Linglart L, et al. Outcomes of coronary artery obstructions after the arterial switch operation for transposition of the great arteries. Outcomes of coronary artery obstructions after the arterial switch operation for transposition of the great arteries. 2024; 168:331-341.e4. doi: 10.1016/j.jtcvs.2023.11.029

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38006998/
