PMID: 38005160
Title: The Effect of Plasma Treatment on the Mechanical and Biological Properties of Polyurethane Artificial Blood Vessel.

Abstract: In recent years, the incidence of cardiovascular disease has increased annually, and the demand for artificial blood vessels has been increasing. Due to the formation of thrombosis and stenosis after implantation, the application of many materials in the human body has been inhibited. Therefore, the choice of surface modification process is very important. In this paper, small-diameter polyurethane artificial blood vessels were prepared through electrospinning, and their surfaces were treated with plasma to improve their biological properties. The samples before and after plasma treatment were characterized by SEM, contact angle, XPS, and tensile testing; meanwhile, the cell compatibility and blood compatibility were evaluated. The results show that there are no significant changes to the fiber morphology or diameter distribution on the surface of the sample before and after plasma treatment. Plasma treatment can increase the proportion of oxygen-containing functional groups on the surface of the sample and improve its wettability, thereby increasing the infiltration ability of cells and promoting cell proliferation. Plasma treatment can reduce the risk of hemolysis, and does not cause platelet adhesion. Due to the etching effect of plasma, the mechanical properties of the samples decreased with the extension of plasma treatment time, which should be used as a basis to balance the mechanical property and biological property of artificial blood vessels. But on the whole, plasma treatment has positive significance for improving the comprehensive performance of samples.

Citation: Ding C, et al. The Effect of Plasma Treatment on the Mechanical and Biological Properties of Polyurethane Artificial Blood Vessel. The Effect of Plasma Treatment on the Mechanical and Biological Properties of Polyurethane Artificial Blood Vessel. 2023; 16:(unknown pages). doi: 10.3390/ma16227231

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38005160/
