PMID: 38016683
Title: Feasibility of Percutaneous Pancreatic Stent Placement in Postoperative Pancreaticojejunostomy Stenosis.

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the role of percutaneous pancreatic stent placement in postoperative pancreaticojejunostomy stenosis (PJS).
MATERIALS AND METHODS: This retrospective single-center study included seven procedures in five patients (four males and one female; median age, 63 years) who underwent percutaneous pancreatic stent placement for postoperative PJS between January 2005 and December 2021. The patients were referred to interventional radiology because of unfavorable anatomy or bowel abnormalities. The pancreatic duct was accessed under ultrasound and/or computed tomography guidance. A stent was placed after balloon dilatation of the PJS. Moreover, plastic stents were placed for the first two procedures, whereas bare-metal stents were used for the remaining five procedures. Technical success was defined as the successful placement of stents for the PJS, meanwhile, clinical success was defined as the normalization of pancreatic enzymes without recurrence of pancreatitis.
RESULTS: Pancreatic duct access and stent placement were successfully performed in all patients (technical success rate: 100%). All the procedures initially yielded clinical success. However, recurrence of pancreatitis was observed after two procedures that used plastic stents because of stent migration at 0.3 and 3 months after the procedure. In contrast, no instances of recurrent pancreatitis were noted after metal stent placement for a follow-up duration of 1-36 months. No serious procedure-related adverse events were observed.
CONCLUSION: Percutaneous pancreatic stent placement may be a viable option for patients with postoperative PJS in whom an endoscopic approach is not feasible. Metal stents may be considered over plastic stents for the management of PJS, considering the possible lower stent migration and infeasibility of frequent endoscopic stent exchange due to the altered anatomy.

Citation: Park J, et al. Feasibility of Percutaneous Pancreatic Stent Placement in Postoperative Pancreaticojejunostomy Stenosis. Feasibility of Percutaneous Pancreatic Stent Placement in Postoperative Pancreaticojejunostomy Stenosis. 2023; 24:1241-1248. doi: 10.3348/kjr.2023.0459

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38016683/
