PMID: 38017393
Title: The use of fully covered self-expandable metal stents in the endoscopic treatment of portal cavernoma cholangiopathy.

Abstract: BACKGROUND AND AIMS: There are different therapeutic approaches for biliary strictures and reducing portal hypertension in patients with symptomatic portal cavernoma cholangiopathy (PCC). Endoscopic treatment includes endoscopic biliary sphincterotomy (EST), dilation of stricture with a biliary balloon, placement of plastic stent(s) and stone extraction. Fully covered self-expandable metal stent (FCSEMS) is placed as a rescuer in case of haemobilia seen after EST, dilation of stricture and removal of plastic stent rather than the stricture treatment itself. In this retrospective observational study, we sought to assess the clinical outcomes of FCSEMS as the initial treatment for PCC-related biliary strictures.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Twelve symptomatic patients with PCC both clinically and radiologically between July 2009 and February 2019 were examined. Magnetic resonance cholangiopancreatography (MRCP) and cholangiography were employed as the diagnostic imaging methods. Chandra-Sarin classification was used to distinguish between biliary abnormalities in terms of localization. Llop classification was used to group biliary abnormalities associated with PCC. Endoscopic partial sphincterotomy was performed in all the patients. If patients with dominant strictures 6-8-mm balloon dilation was first performed. This was followed by removal of the stones if exist. Finally, FCSEMS placed. The stents were removed 6-12 weeks later.
RESULTS: The mean age of the patients was 40.9 ± 10.3 years, and 91.6% of the patients were male. Majority of the patients (n = 9) were noncirrhotic. Endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography (ERCP) findings showed that 11 of the 12 patients were Chandra Type I and one was Chandra Type IIIa. All the 12 patients were Llop Grade 3. All patients had biliary involvement in the form of strictures. Stent placement was successful in all patients. FCSEMSs were retained for a median period of 45 days (30-60). Seven (58.3%) patients developed acute cholecystitis. There was no occurrence of bleeding or other complications associated with FCSEMS replacement or removal. All patients were asymptomatic during median 3 years (1-10) follow up period.
CONCLUSIONS: FCSEMS placement is an effective method in biliary strictures in case of PCC. Acute cholecystitis is encountered frequently after FCSEMS, but majority of patients respond to the medical treatment. Patients should be followed in terms of the relapse of biliary strictures.

Citation: Buyruk AM, et al. The use of fully covered self-expandable metal stents in the endoscopic treatment of portal cavernoma cholangiopathy. The use of fully covered self-expandable metal stents in the endoscopic treatment of portal cavernoma cholangiopathy. 2023; 23:414. doi: 10.1186/s12876-023-03042-5

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38017393/
