PMID: 38016541
Title: TAVR as an Alternative to SAVR for Pure Native Aortic Regurgitation.

Abstract: Although transcatheter aortic valve replacement was originally fulfilling an unmet clinical need in the elderly population suffering from tricuspid aortic valve stenosis, its use has been progressively expanded to other groups of patients. In this review, we focus on pure native aortic valve regurgitation, which is in most cases a degenerative disease and therefore frequently diagnosed in elderly patients with comorbidities. Symptoms tend to appear late in the disease, when left ventricular dilation and systolic dysfunction are associated owing to excessive volume overload. It is often combined with a dilated aortic annulus and ascending aorta. Surgical aortic valve replacement remains the criterion standard treatment for severe aortic regurgitation. However, for patients at prohibitive surgical risk, transcatheter aortic valve replacement represents an attractive alternative. Various technical challenges are the absence of calcium at the level of the annulus, which means there are no anchoring points or fluoroscopic landmarks, the difficulty of valve sizing, and the increased stroke volume secondary to the aortic regurgitation, making valve deployment more unstable than in the setting of aortic stenosis. The first-generation transcatheter valves were associated with a higher mortality rate and lower procedural success related to increased risk of paravalvular leak and valve migration requiring a second valve or annular rupture than the more recent off-label or on-label transcatheter valves. Early studies with the dedicated on-label devices showed safety and promising results and will undoubtedly serve in the future a growing number of patients with native aortic regurgitation at prohibitive risk for surgery.

Citation: Noble S and Mauler-Wittwer S. TAVR as an Alternative to SAVR for Pure Native Aortic Regurgitation. TAVR as an Alternative to SAVR for Pure Native Aortic Regurgitation. 2024; 40:316-325. doi: 10.1016/j.cjca.2023.11.023

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38016541/
