PMID: 38016792
Title: Comparison of drug-coated balloon angioplasty versus standard medical therapy on recurrent stroke and mortality rates among patients with symptomatic intracranial atherosclerotic stenosis: protocol for a systematic review and meta-analysis.

Abstract: INTRODUCTION: Stroke remains the second leading cause of death worldwide, a common cause of which is intracranial atherosclerotic stenosis (ICAS). Medical treatment is recommended as first-line therapy for treating ICAS, but the recurrence rate remains high. Drug-coated balloon (DCB) angioplasty has been designed to lower the risk of recurrent stenosis, holding therapeutic promise in the treatment of ICAS. However, the benefits of DCB require further evaluation.
METHODS AND ANALYSIS: The Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis Protocols was followed to develop this protocol. We will systematically search online databases including Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials, PubMed, Web of Science, EMBASE, China Biological Medicine Database, ClinicalTrials.gov and WHO ICTRP from 1 January 2011 to the date of search. This will be supplemented by a manual search of unpublished and ongoing trials to manually select articles for inclusion. Inclusion criteria are randomised or quasi-randomised clinical trials and observational studies that investigated DCB or medical treatment for patients with a symptomatic ICAS of 50%-99%. The primary outcome is short-term composite safety including death of any cause, or non-fatal stroke. Secondary outcomes include long-term death or stroke, restenosis, neurological rehabilitation, quality of life and other complications. The available data will be analysed using meta-analysis, if appropriate. The evaluation of heterogeneity and biases will be guided by the Cochrane Handbook for Systematic Reviews of Interventions.
ETHICS AND DISSEMINATION: This systematic review does not require ethical approval as all available data from eligible studies will be anonymous with no concerns regarding privacy. Our findings will be disseminated through international conferences and peer-reviewed publications. Additional data from the study are available on request to corresponding authors via email.
PROSPERO REGISTRATION NUMBER: CRD42022341607.

Citation: Sun Y, et al. Comparison of drug-coated balloon angioplasty versus standard medical therapy on recurrent stroke and mortality rates among patients with symptomatic intracranial atherosclerotic stenosis: protocol for a systematic review and meta-analysis. Comparison of drug-coated balloon angioplasty versus standard medical therapy on recurrent stroke and mortality rates among patients with symptomatic intracranial atherosclerotic stenosis: protocol for a systematic review and meta-analysis. 2023; 13:e078040. doi: 10.1136/bmjopen-2023-078040

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38016792/
