PMID: 38013274
Title: Takayasu arteritis and hyperthyroidism: A secondary hypertension case report.

Abstract: INTRODUCTION: Renovascular disease and hyperthyroidism are secondary hypertension. Takayasu arteritis (TAK) is a chronic, progressive, nonspecific great vasculitis involving the aorta and its major branches. It is one of the causes of renal artery stenosis. Hyperthyroidism is an endocrine disease caused by improper continuous synthesis and secretion of excessive thyroid hormone by the thyroid gland. Both diseases can raise blood pressure (BP).
CASE PRESENTATION: we present a case of 18-year-old. Female, after exercise, fatigue palpitations. The maximum BP was 190/87 mm Hg, ankle-brachial index was <0.9. C-reactive protein and erythrocyte sedimentation rate were elevated. Imaging revealed multiple vascular stenosis. Triiodothyronine, tetraiodothyroxine, serum-free triiodothyronine, serum-free thyroxine, thyroid peroxidase antibody and thyroid stimulating receptor antibody were elevated. TSH reduced. She was diagnosed with TAK and hyperthyroidism. After treatment, the BP was normal, the thyroid function gradually returned to normal, and the symptoms improved.
CONCLUSION: It is suggested that the BP of both upper limbs should be measured in newly diagnostic hypertension. If BP is not measured in both upper limbs, it is likely to be missed diagnosis. The cause of vascular stenosis needs to be identified, otherwise interventional treatment may lead to aggravation of the condition. Few cases of TAK complicated with hyperthyroidism have been reported. Both diseases are related to the immune system, whether there is any correlation between the 2 diseases, further research is needed. Early diagnosis, early treatment, the earlier intervention, the better prognosis.

Citation: He LM, et al. Takayasu arteritis and hyperthyroidism: A secondary hypertension case report. Takayasu arteritis and hyperthyroidism: A secondary hypertension case report. 2023; 102:e35623. doi: 10.1097/MD.0000000000035623

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38013274/
