PMID: 38014278
Title: Effect of Sinotubular Junction Size on TAVR Leaflet Thrombosis: A Fluid-structure Interaction Analysis.

Abstract: PURPOSE: TAVR has emerged as a standard approach for treating severe aortic stenosis patients. However, it is associated with several clinical complications, including subclinical leaflet thrombosis characterized by Hypoattenuated Leaflet Thickening (HALT). A rigorous analysis of TAVR device thrombogenicity considering anatomical variations is essential for estimating this risk. Clinicians use the Sinotubular Junction (STJ) diameter for TAVR sizing, but there is a paucity of research on its influence on TAVR devices thrombogenicity.
METHODS: A Medtronic Evolut® TAVR device was deployed in three patient models with varying STJ diameters (26, 30, and 34mm) to evaluate its impact on post-deployment hemodynamics and thrombogenicity, employing a novel computational framework combining prosthesis deployment and fluid- structure interaction analysis.
RESULTS: The 30 mm STJ patient case exhibited the best hemodynamic performance: 5.94 mmHg mean transvalvular pressure gradient (TPG), 2.64 cm 2 mean geometric orifice area (GOA), and the lowest mean residence time (T <sub>R</sub> ) - indicating a reduced thrombogenic risk; 26 mm STJ exhibited a 10 % reduction in GOA and a 35% increase in mean TPG compared to the 30 mm STJ; 34 mm STJ depicted hemodynamics comparable to the 30 mm STJ, but with a 6% increase in T <sub>R</sub> and elevated platelet stress accumulation.
CONCLUSION: A smaller STJ size impairs adequate expansion of the TAVR stent, which may lead to suboptimal hemodynamic performance. Conversely, a larger STJ size marginally enhances the hemodynamic performance but increases the risk of TAVR leaflet thrombosis. Such analysis can aid pre- procedural planning and minimize the risk of TAVR leaflet thrombosis.

Citation: Oks D, et al. Effect of Sinotubular Junction Size on TAVR Leaflet Thrombosis: A Fluid-structure Interaction Analysis. Effect of Sinotubular Junction Size on TAVR Leaflet Thrombosis: A Fluid-structure Interaction Analysis. 2023; (unknown volume):(unknown pages). doi: 10.1101/2023.11.13.23298476

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38014278/
