PMID: 38019815
Title: Effectiveness and safety of oral anticoagulant therapy in a real-world cohort with atrial fibrillation: The SIESTA-A study protocol.

Abstract: INTRODUCTION: Oral anticoagulants (OACs) are first-line drugs for stroke prevention in patients with atrial fibrillation (AF). The introduction of new lines of therapy with direct oral anticoagulants (DOACs) has led to a decreased use of vitamin K antagonists (VKAs). Comparative analyses of DOACs in clinical trials are scarce and the comparator has mostly been warfarin. Their impact on health outcomes in observational studies has not always been consistent. The aim of this study is to evaluate the effectiveness and safety of DOACs and VKAs in patients with AF using Real-World Data (RWD).
METHODS AND ANALYSIS: Population-based retrospective cohort study using RWD from actual practice. Period: January 2012-December 2020. Inclusion criteria: patients with AF who had not taken OACs in the previous 12 months. Exclusion criteria: <40 years, with severe mitral stenosis, or valvular heart disease or aortic and/or mitral valve procedures. Data source: The Andalusian Population Health Database, Spain. Outcome measures: a) Effectiveness: ischaemic stroke, transient ischaemic attack, systemic and pulmonary embolism, and death; b) Safety: gastrointestinal and intracranial haemorrhaging; Independent variables: age, sex, comorbidities, medication and health resource use, CHA2DS2-VASC, HAS-BLED, and analytical tests. Statistical analysis: crude incidence analysis, survival models, Kaplan-Meier, Cox regression analysis adjusted for possible confounding and paired analysis by propensity score matching.

Citation: Montero-Balosa MC, et al. Effectiveness and safety of oral anticoagulant therapy in a real-world cohort with atrial fibrillation: The SIESTA-A study protocol. Effectiveness and safety of oral anticoagulant therapy in a real-world cohort with atrial fibrillation: The SIESTA-A study protocol. 2023; 18:e0294822. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0294822

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38019815/
