PMID: 38016895
Title: Diagnostic accuracy and interobserver agreement of cholangioscopy for indeterminate biliary strictures: A single-center experience.

Abstract: BACKGROUND AND STUDY AIMS: Characterization of indeterminate biliary strictures (IDBS) still represents a major challenge. Digital single-operator cholangioscopy (DSOC) could potentially overcome limits of conventional biopsy and brush sampling. The aim of this study was to compare diagnostic accuracy of visual evaluation and DSOC-guided biopsies to conventional trans-papillary sampling techniques and to evaluate the inter-observer agreement (IOA) on visual diagnosis.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: All consecutive patients undergoing DSOC-guided biopsy after conventional sampling techniques for IDBS during a six-year period were retrospectively evaluated. Final diagnosis was based on histological evaluation of the surgical specimen if available or a clinical follow-up of at least 6 months. For IOA, 20-second DSOC clips were retrospectively reviewed by 6 experts and 6 trainees and classified according to the Monaco Classification.
RESULTS: Thirty-five patients underwent DSOC for IDBS in the study period; 14 patients (F = 9) with a median age of 64 years (range 53-76) met the study aim. After DSOC, strictures location was changed in three patients (additional yield of 21.4 %). Intraductal DSOC-guided biopsy were technically successful in all cases, with an adequacy of 92.8 %. No adverse events were recorded. Final diagnosis was benign disease in five cases and cholangiocarcinoma in the others. For IOA, 29 videos were evaluated with almost perfect agreement for final diagnosis (kappa 0.871; agreement 93.1, p <0.001), although overall accuracy of DSOC visual finding was 73.6 % and 64.4 % for experts and trainees, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: DSOC could improve diagnostic accuracy for IDBS, since it showed high sensitivity for visual finding and high specificity for DSOC guided-biopsy. Visual diagnosis seems reliable for diagnosis using the Monaco Classification.

Citation: Milluzzo SM, et al. Diagnostic accuracy and interobserver agreement of cholangioscopy for indeterminate biliary strictures: A single-center experience. Diagnostic accuracy and interobserver agreement of cholangioscopy for indeterminate biliary strictures: A single-center experience. 2024; 56:847-852. doi: 10.1016/j.dld.2023.11.017

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38016895/
