PMID: 38028062
Title: A successful transfemoral transcatheter aortic valve replacement case with VIABAHN® VBX balloon-expandable stent-graft and long Dryseal sheath for challenging access route.

Abstract: KEY CLINICAL MESSAGE: A combination of long large-bore sheath and balloon-expandable stent-graft can be effective to challenging access route in transfemoral transcatheter aortic valve replacement.
ABSTRACT: An 88-year-old female with symptomatic severe aortic stenosis underwent transcatheter aortic valve replacement (TAVR). Multidetector computed tomography demonstrated a small aortic annulus, shaggy aorta, and significant stenosis with heavily calcified atherosclerotic lesions in the bilateral common iliac arteries (CIAs). TAVR with Evolut™ Pro+ via alternative approach was considered; however, our heart team concluded that the patient was unsuitable for the procedure due to anatomical reasons, patient frailty, and medication history. Finally, transfemoral TAVR with endovascular therapy (EVT) and 18Fr-65 cm-Dryseal was adopted for the site. Following EVT with VIABAHN® VBX balloon-expandable stent-graft (VBX) implantation to the right ostial CIA lesion, 18Fr-65 cm-Dryseal was advanced to the ascending aorta through VBX, and Evolut™ Pro+26 mm was successfully implanted without any complication. At the 2-month follow-up, the patient reported a significant improvement in shortness of breath and did not present any evidence of atheroembolism. Transfemoral TAVR with 18Fr-65 cm-Dryseal to shaggy aorta can be feasible depending on the plaque distribution, and VBX implantation to a heavily calcified ostial CIA lesion was safe and effective for obtaining enough lumen for a large-bore sheath.

Citation: Kawaguchi T, et al. A successful transfemoral transcatheter aortic valve replacement case with VIABAHN® VBX balloon-expandable stent-graft and long Dryseal sheath for challenging access route. A successful transfemoral transcatheter aortic valve replacement case with VIABAHN® VBX balloon-expandable stent-graft and long Dryseal sheath for challenging access route. 2023; 11:e8178. doi: 10.1002/ccr3.8178

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38028062/
