PMID: 38025122
Title: Severe mitral stenosis masquerading as cardiogenic shock successfully managed with extracorporeal membrane oxygenation and percutaneous mitral commissurotomy: a case report.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Rheumatic fever is still a major cause of mitral valve (MV) stenosis in the developing world. Few patients with critical rheumatic MV stenosis can present with acute cardiogenic shock (CS) that requires urgent treatment with circulatory support and definitive valvular repair or replacement.
CASE SUMMARY: A 37-year-old gentleman was admitted with heart failure, CS Society for Cardiovascular Angiography and Interventions D, and atrial fibrillation with a rapid ventricular response. He had no prior medical history. He had multiple organ failures and required intubation, two DC shocks of 200 joules without haemodynamic improvement, continuous renal replacement therapy, and medical and mechanical circulatory support using extracorporeal membrane oxygenation (ECMO). His echocardiography showed severe rheumatic mitral stenosis (mitral valve area 2D of 0.7 cm2, mean diastolic gradient of 17 mmHg, Wilkins score 7). His Society of Thoracic Surgery score and EuroScore were 50.1% and 12.1%, respectively. Thus, a percutaneous transcatheter mitral commissurotomy (PTMC) was decided as the definitive treatment in a multidisciplinary team meeting. Following the procedure, the patient's circulatory support was gradually weaned off, and he was successfully extubated with a marked improvement in his renal functions. The patient achieved a complete recovery without any long-term sequelae.
DISCUSSION: Cardiogenic shock related to severe rheumatic MV stenosis requires multidisciplinary team management with prompt diagnosis, initiation of the most appropriate mechanical support device (e.g. ECMO or tandem heart), and relief of the MV obstruction. Percutaneous transcatheter mitral commissurotomy can be the preferred option in this setting if the valve is pliable.

Citation: Jalil S, et al. Severe mitral stenosis masquerading as cardiogenic shock successfully managed with extracorporeal membrane oxygenation and percutaneous mitral commissurotomy: a case report. Severe mitral stenosis masquerading as cardiogenic shock successfully managed with extracorporeal membrane oxygenation and percutaneous mitral commissurotomy: a case report. 2023; 7:ytad553. doi: 10.1093/ehjcr/ytad553

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38025122/
