PMID: 38021704
Title: Unilateral Biportal Endoscopic Laminectomy-Bilateral Decompression Using a Monoportal Scope and Bipolar Coagulator for Lumbar Spinal Stenosis: A Technical Report.

Abstract: The purpose of this study was to introduce the application of a monoportal scope and bipolar coagulator used in full-endoscopic spine surgery (FESS) for unilateral biportal endoscopy-unilateral laminectomy bilateral decompression (UBE-ULBD) in those with central stenosis. A 68-year-old man who presented with cauda equina symptoms underwent UBE-ULBD to improve his central stenosis at the L2/3 level. In this technique, a FESS scope was attached to a camera portal in place of a common arthroscope. A decompression tool was subsequently inserted through the working portal, and the lower border of the vertebral lamina and the lower border of the contralateral lamina were resected. Additionally, the superior border of the L3 level was thinned using a high-speed drill, and the ligament flavum was excised. The operation time was 70 minutes, and his symptoms improved. The patient was discharged from the hospital four days postoperatively. We found three advantages of using a FESS scope and bipolar coagulator, including the ability to 1) stabilize the camera via placement of the sleeve against the bone, 2) minimize the wounded area by irrigating saline on the side of the scope, and 3) provide bipolar tissue hemostasis in an isolated area around the nerves. Therefore, among the UBE techniques, we believe that assisted full-endoscopic spine surgery (AFESS) is a viable option to offer a more minimally invasive surgery for patients with stenosis.

Citation: Kaneko T, et al. Unilateral Biportal Endoscopic Laminectomy-Bilateral Decompression Using a Monoportal Scope and Bipolar Coagulator for Lumbar Spinal Stenosis: A Technical Report. Unilateral Biportal Endoscopic Laminectomy-Bilateral Decompression Using a Monoportal Scope and Bipolar Coagulator for Lumbar Spinal Stenosis: A Technical Report. 2023; 15:e46944. doi: 10.7759/cureus.46944

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38021704/
