PMID: 38024107
Title: Guillain-Barré syndrome after percutaneous coronary intervention and transcatheter aortic valve implantation.

Abstract: UNLABELLED: Guillain-Barré syndrome (GBS) usually develops after preceding infection, but cardiac surgery can also occasionally cause GBS. Currently, cardiac catheterizations have already become common therapeutic options for heart diseases, but there have been no reports of GBS occurrence after that. Herein, we present a rare case in which GBS occurred following catheterization. An 85-year-old-man with sudden onset chest pain was rushed to our hospital and diagnosed with ST-elevated myocardial infarction. He underwent emergent percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) to left anterior descending artery, but he still had exertional chest pain. Echocardiography revealed severe aortic stenosis (AS) and our heart team considered AS was the cause of symptom and decided to perform and transcatheter aortic valve implantation (TAVI), 11 days after the PCI. However, 5 days after the TAVI procedure, he presented with symmetrical muscular weakness of extremities. Cranial magnetic resonance imaging showed no significant lesion. Based on several signs including albuminocytologic dissociation in cerebrospinal fluid examination, demyelinating polyneuropathy in nerve conduction study, positive anti-ganglioside antibody, and the lack of preceding infection, he was diagnosed with GBS triggered by cardiac catheterizations. We administered high-dose intravenous immunoglobulin therapy and his motor strength gradually improved, finally discharged with full motor strength after 7 months rehabilitation.
LEARNING OBJECTIVE: •Cardiac surgery has been already reported as a non-infectious risk factor of Guillain-Barré syndrome (GBS) in previous literatures, and cardiac catheterization such as percutaneous coronary intervention and transcatheter aortic valve implantation, which were relatively less invasive procedure, may be a potential risk factor for GBS occurrence as well.•If a patient complains of progressive, symmetrical neurological symptoms after cardiac catheterization, GBS should be considered as the possible cause, and nerve conduction study and cerebrospinal fluid examination may be helpful for the diagnosis.

Citation: Nonaka H, et al. Guillain-Barré syndrome after percutaneous coronary intervention and transcatheter aortic valve implantation. Guillain-Barré syndrome after percutaneous coronary intervention and transcatheter aortic valve implantation. 2023; 28:201-205. doi: 10.1016/j.jccase.2023.07.001

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38024107/
