PMID: 38023409
Title: Case Report: Metagenomic Next-Generation Sequencing Confirmed a Case of Spine Infection with Brucella melitensis in Non-Endemic Area.

Abstract: Brucellosis is a zoonotic disease caused by Brucella spp., with the highest prevalence found in the northern cities of China. In this case report, we present an occurrence of spinal infection caused by B. melitensis in a 67-year-old man residing in a non-endemic area of southern China. The patient initially presented with chest and back pain, which was not accurately diagnosed and treated at a local hospital. Subsequently, due to worsening pain, he was admitted to our hospital. To determine the cause of the infection, we performed CT-guided aspiration biopsy and collected biopsy tissue for metagenomic next-generation sequencing (mNGS) on the second day of hospitalization. Imaging investigations revealed involvement of the thoracic vertebrae, specifically thoracic 4-7 with the main focus on 5-6, accompanied by stenosis of the intervertebral space. The mNGS results indicated that the spine infection was caused by B. melitensis. The patient's history as a shepherd and a positive Rose Bengal plate test (RBPT) further supported the diagnosis of brucella spondylitis. In order to alleviate pain and restore spinal function, the patient underwent posterior internal fixation of the thoracic spine. Treatment was initiated with cefoperazone/sulbactam, followed by doxycycline. Subsequently, the patient was switched to a combination therapy of rifampicin and doxycycline for a duration of six weeks. The patient responded well to treatment, and his condition remained stable. In conclusion, brucellosis is a common disease that can be easily misdiagnosed. This case report highlights the potential value of mNGS in early and rapid diagnosis. We believe that mNGS can serve as an effective tool to improve the diagnosis of spine infections caused by this pathogen.

Citation: Du J, et al. Case Report: Metagenomic Next-Generation Sequencing Confirmed a Case of Spine Infection with Brucella melitensis in Non-Endemic Area. Case Report: Metagenomic Next-Generation Sequencing Confirmed a Case of Spine Infection with Brucella melitensis in Non-Endemic Area. 2023; 16:7219-7225. doi: 10.2147/IDR.S436278

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38023409/
