PMID: 38021067
Title: Assessment of Lumbar Spinal Stenosis as a Risk Factor for Development of Sleep Disorder: The Locomotive Syndrome and Health Outcome in Aizu Cohort Study (LOHAS).

Abstract: PURPOSE: Insomnia has been reported to coexist with various musculoskeletal disorders. Although lumbar spinal stenosis (LSS) is the most frequently operated on spinal disease, the causal relationship between LSS and development of sleep disorders remains unclear due to lack of longitudinal studies. This study aimed to determine whether LSS was a risk factor for developing new sleep disorders, primarily insomnia, using a prospective cohort of community residents.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: This study was a prospective cohort study. Participants aged ≥65 years from the "Locomotive Syndrome and Health Outcomes in Aizu Cohort Study (LOHAS)" conducted in 2008 formed our study population. LSS was diagnosed using the self-administered, self-reported history questionnaire, a validated diagnostic support tool for LSS. Sleep disorder was investigated using a questionnaire during the 2-year follow-up. The impact of LSS on sleep disorder onset was analyzed after adjusting for potential confounders, such as age, sex, obesity, hypertension, diabetes, depression, and smoking habits, using propensity score matching.
RESULTS: Of the 489 participants who were followed up for two years, 38 (7.8%) had newly developed a sleep disorder in 2010. After adjusting for confounding factors, a comparison of 133 participants each in the control and LSS groups showed significantly higher frequency of new-onset sleep disorders (19 [14.3%] in the LSS group versus 6 [4.5%] in the control group).
CONCLUSION: LSS was found to be an independent risk factor for sleep disorders.

Citation: Kobayashi H, et al. Assessment of Lumbar Spinal Stenosis as a Risk Factor for Development of Sleep Disorder: The Locomotive Syndrome and Health Outcome in Aizu Cohort Study (LOHAS). Assessment of Lumbar Spinal Stenosis as a Risk Factor for Development of Sleep Disorder: The Locomotive Syndrome and Health Outcome in Aizu Cohort Study (LOHAS). 2023; 16:5417-5424. doi: 10.2147/IJGM.S435739

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38021067/
