PMID: 38022842
Title: Quality of life in lumbar spinal stenosis: Does it correlate with magnetic resonance imaging and spinopelvic parameters?

Abstract: PURPOSE: Degenerative lumbar spinal stenosis (LSS) is a common degenerative spinal disorder with debilitating symptoms that can impact quality of life (QoL). However, the anatomical basis for typical complaints has been poorly quantified. This study aims to correlate QoL assessments of patients with LSS with radiographic spinopelvic parameters and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) measurements.
METHODS: We screened 371 patients hospitalized for LSS and excluded those with a history of spine surgery. Ultimately, we analyzed the data of 34 patients retrospectively. Two independent members of our research group evaluated the alignment parameters on preoperative spinal radiographs, MRI, and classified the images according to the Pfirrmann grading. The spinopelvic alignment was then compared with the clinical QoL scores Core Outcome Measures Index (COMI) and the Oswestry Disability Index (ODI) as collected by the Spine Tango registry. In addition, the interobserver reliability was analyzed.
RESULTS: The individual MRI measurements correlated significantly. This correlation could not be found when compared with the spinopelvic parameters on radiographs. Neither the COMI nor the ODI scores showed a significant correlation with the MRI or radiographic imaging.
CONCLUSIONS: The severity of LSS related disability according to QoL questionnaires could not be quantified by any MRI or spinopelvic parameter that was measured. There was also no correlation of the MRI and spinopelvic parameters among themselves. Consequently, treatment recommendations for symptomatic LSS should never be based on radiological data only.

Citation: Beyer F, et al. Quality of life in lumbar spinal stenosis: Does it correlate with magnetic resonance imaging and spinopelvic parameters?. Quality of life in lumbar spinal stenosis: Does it correlate with magnetic resonance imaging and spinopelvic parameters?. 2024; 47:67-71. doi: 10.1016/j.jor.2023.11.010

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38022842/
