PMID: 38034152
Title: Risk of Infective Endocarditis Post-transcatheter Pulmonary Valve Replacement Versus Surgical Pulmonary Valve Replacement: A Systematic Review.

Abstract: Pulmonary valve replacement (PVR) is the most common cardiac operation in adult patients with congenital heart disease (ACHD). It can improve right ventricular outflow tract (RVOT) obstruction, typically due to pulmonary valve stenosis or regurgitation. PVR can be performed surgically (open-heart) and through a transcatheter (percutaneous) method, which is minimally invasive and is associated with shorter hospitalization stays. However, following PVR, infectious endocarditis (IE) can complicate the recovery process and increase mortality in the long term. IE is a rare but deadly multi-organ system condition caused by microorganisms traversing the bloodstream from a specific entry point. It can have many presentations, such as splinter hemorrhages, fevers, and vegetation on valves that lead to stroke consequences. This paper aims to evaluate the differences in the rate, etiology, manifestations, treatment, and outcomes of IE following surgical and transcatheter PVR, as the goal is to perform a procedure with few complications. In both approaches, Staphylococcus aureus was the most common microorganism that affected the valves, followed by Streptococcus viridians. Research has shown that surgical pulmonary valve replacement (SPVR) has a decreased risk of IE following surgery compared to TPVR. However, TPVR is preferred due to the reduced overall risk and complications of the procedure. Despite this, the consensus on mortality rates does differ. Future research should consider the type of valves used for transcatheter pulmonary valve replacement (TPVR), such as Melody valves versus Edward Sapien valves, as their IE rates vary significantly.

Citation: Slouha E, et al. Risk of Infective Endocarditis Post-transcatheter Pulmonary Valve Replacement Versus Surgical Pulmonary Valve Replacement: A Systematic Review. Risk of Infective Endocarditis Post-transcatheter Pulmonary Valve Replacement Versus Surgical Pulmonary Valve Replacement: A Systematic Review. 2023; 15:e48022. doi: 10.7759/cureus.48022

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38034152/
