PMID: 38034082
Title: Angiographic and Clinical Impact of Novel Revascularization for Occluded Femoropopliteal Prosthetic Bypass Graft: A Combination of Surgical Thrombectomy and Drug-Coated Balloon Angioplasty.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Previous reports have revealed various endovascular intervention techniques for prosthetic femoropopliteal bypass occlusion (PFPBO); however, treatment for PFPBO remains challenging for most interventionalists and vascular surgeons because the procedure is complicated. Most of the reported techniques involve device implantation. In the present study, we performed a combination of surgical graft thrombectomy and drug-coated balloon angioplasty for PFPBO without implanting any additional devices. Furthermore, we determined the favorable long-term results of this treatment using follow-up angiography. Case Presentation. A 77-year-old man with a history of chronic kidney disease and coronary artery disease presented to our clinic with rest pain on his left leg. Seven years prior to the current consult, he underwent femoropopliteal bypass (FPB) surgery using a prosthetic graft due to in-stent occlusion of the left superficial femoral artery (SFA). Four years after surgery, a duplex ultrasound scan revealed stenosis of the proximal anastomosis site; hence, medical therapy was continued. On the current consult, diagnostic angiography revealed occlusion of the FPB and infrapopliteal vessels. In the first attempt at recanalization, the guidewire was unable to pass through the occluded SFA. Therefore, another technique was performed to revascularize the FPBO and infrapopliteal vessels. We obtained an angiography of the left leg after inserting the guiding sheath via the right common femoral artery (CFA). First, surgical thrombectomy using a Fogarty catheter via the exposed left CFA was performed. Following endovascular therapy via the right CFA, we performed drug-coated balloon angioplasty for anastomotic stenosis and recanalized occlusive infrapopliteal vessels. Restenosis was not observed on follow-up angiograms. On further follow-up angiography, there was notable regression of the residual stenosis at the proximal anastomosis of the prosthetic graft.
CONCLUSION: This novel revascularization strategy may be a viable treatment option for PFPBO.

Citation: Takei T, et al. Angiographic and Clinical Impact of Novel Revascularization for Occluded Femoropopliteal Prosthetic Bypass Graft: A Combination of Surgical Thrombectomy and Drug-Coated Balloon Angioplasty. Angiographic and Clinical Impact of Novel Revascularization for Occluded Femoropopliteal Prosthetic Bypass Graft: A Combination of Surgical Thrombectomy and Drug-Coated Balloon Angioplasty. 2023; 2023:6730220. doi: 10.1155/2023/6730220

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38034082/
