PMID: 38030300
Title: Long-Term Assessment of Survival After Transcatheter Aortic Valve Implantation　- Insights From the International Transcatheter Aortic Valve Implantation Registry.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Transcatheter aortic valve implantation (TAVI) is an established treatment for severe aortic stenosis (AS), but despite estimates of life expectancy after TAVI being essential in heart team discussion, these data are scarce. Therefore, the current study sought to assess long-term survival and its trends in relation to chronological age, surgical risk, and treatment period.
METHODS AND RESULTS: We included 2,414 consecutive patients who underwent TAVI for severe symptomatic AS between 2008 and 2021 at 2 international centers. For the analysis, long-term survival was evaluated according to age, surgical risk, and treatment period categorized into 3 groups, respectively. The longest follow-up was 13.5 years. Overall survival was 67.6% at 5 years and 26.9% at 10 years. Younger patients, lower surgical risk, and later treatment period showed better survival (log-rank P<0.001, respectively). In the multivariate analysis, age <75years, lower surgical risk, and later time period were significantly associated with better survival. The incidence of paravalvular leakage ≥moderate, red blood cell transfusion, and acute kidney injury were independently associated with increasing risk of 5-year death.
CONCLUSIONS: In a real-world registry, survival was substantial following TAVI, especially in younger and lower surgical-risk patients, with improving outcomes over time. This should be considered in heart team discussions of life-long management for AS patients after TAVI.

Citation: Sugiyama Y, et al. Long-Term Assessment of Survival After Transcatheter Aortic Valve Implantation　- Insights From the International Transcatheter Aortic Valve Implantation Registry. Long-Term Assessment of Survival After Transcatheter Aortic Valve Implantation　- Insights From the International Transcatheter Aortic Valve Implantation Registry. 2024; 88:462-471. doi: 10.1253/circj.CJ-23-0593

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38030300/
