PMID: 38035999
Title: A practical approach to the endoscopic management of biliary strictures after liver transplantation.

Abstract: Biliary tract complications are an important cause of morbidity and mortality after liver transplantation (LT) occurring in 5% to 25% of patients. The most common biliary complication in LT recipients are strictures representing approximately half of these biliary adverse events. Bile duct strictures can be divided into anastomotic biliary strictures (ABS) and non-anastomotic biliary strictures (NABS) depending on their location in the biliary tree, being ABS the most encountered type. Several risk factors identified in previous studies can predispose to the development of ABS and NABS, especially those related to surgical techniques and donor characteristics. Magnetic resonance cholangiopancreatography (MRCP) is the recommended noninvasive imaging test for detecting post-LT biliary strictures, given its high sensitivity and specificity. Once the diagnosis of a biliary stricture after LT has been made, endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography (ERCP) is the preferred initial therapy with good short and long-term results. Biliary sphincterotomy plus balloon dilation (BD) with placement of multiple plastic stents (MPS) has been the classic endoscopic approach for treating ABS, although fully-covered metallic stents (FCSEMS) have emerged as an alternative thanks to shorter total duration of stenting and fewer endoscopic procedures compared to MPS. In this review, we provide a practical update on the management of biliary strictures after LT, focusing our attention on the available evidence in the endoscopic therapy.

Citation: Bofill A and Cárdenas A. A practical approach to the endoscopic management of biliary strictures after liver transplantation. A practical approach to the endoscopic management of biliary strictures after liver transplantation. 2024; 29:101186. doi: 10.1016/j.aohep.2023.101186

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38035999/
