PMID: 38035853
Title: [Evaluation of Bridge to Surgery(BTS) after Stenting for Malignant Colorectal Stenosis].

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the current status and postoperative course of nutritional management in bridge to surgery(BTS) after colorectal stenting for malignant colorectal stenosis.
SUBJECTS AND METHODS: The study included 242 colorectal cancer cases, 27 cases with malignant colorectal stenosis who underwent BTS group, 24 cases with malignant colorectal stenosis who fasted until the day of surgery and consumed drinking water and Elenthal®(no oral intake group), and 191 cases with non-stenotic colorectal cancer (diet group). The study items selected were nutritional management methods before colorectal cancer resection, nutritional assessment, surgical factors, and postoperative course.
RESULTS: The BTS, no oral intake, and diet groups were compared in 27, 0, and 191 patients, respectively. In contrast, the intake of Elenthal® was compared in 4, 20, and 5 patients and total parenteral nutrition in 3, 15, and 1 patients, respectively. There were no differences in nutritional sufficiency during hospitalization. The Onodera Nutritional Index(PNI)was significantly lower in the BTS and no oral intake groups than the diet group at the first outpatient visit before surgery. The PNI was significantly lower in the no oral intake group than in the diet group immediately before surgery. Blood loss was higher in the BTS and no oral intake groups than in the diet group, but there was no difference in operative time. The postoperative course was poorer in the no oral intake group than in the diet group. However, there was no difference between the diet and BTS groups.
CONCLUSION: In patients with obstructive colorectal cancer in whom BTS could be performed, the results suggest that preoperative nutritional management with a high sufficiency rate using the intestinal tract may lead to a postoperative course comparable to that in non-stenotic cases.

Citation: Sagawa M, et al. [Evaluation of Bridge to Surgery(BTS) after Stenting for Malignant Colorectal Stenosis]. [Evaluation of Bridge to Surgery(BTS) after Stenting for Malignant Colorectal Stenosis]. 2023; 50:1130-1132.

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38035853/
