PMID: 38036219
Title: Robotic Management of Complex Vesicourethral Anastomosis Stenosis With Transperineal Urethral Advancement: A Step-by-Step Technique.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Vesicourethral anastomosis stenosis (VUAS) refers to the diameter narrowing of a vesicourethral anastomosis (VUA). It is a known complication after radical prostatectomy that nowadays presents in less than 1% of these cases. When the lumen narrows sufficiently to impede urine flow, obstructive symptoms arise. While the incidence of VUAS used to be notably higher prior to the widespread use of the robotic approach, traditional procedures still fail in up to 42% of cases. Initial management typically involves endoscopic procedures, such as dilation, incision, or resection. If these approaches prove ineffective, VUA reconstruction is warranted. Following the resection of the unhealthy urethra, a potential drawback is the insufficient length of the healthy proximal urethral to reach the bladder without tension. In such cases, urinary diversion with an ileal conduit is an option. However, when the patient prefers to maintain an orthotopic urinary tract configuration, there is limited guidance in the literature regarding surgical techniques.
OBJECTIVE: To outline the indications, describe the step-by-step technique, and evaluate the outcomes of transperineal urethral advancement to facilitate a tension-free VUA.
MATERIALS: We first discuss the indications to identify which patients are candidates for this procedure. Then, a step-by-step description of the robotic VUA revision assisted by transperineal urethral mobilization is presented. Detailed steps and helpful hints are included. Finally, we outline the postoperative pathway and expected outcomes.
RESULTS: This technique allows patients with VUAS to preserve the orthotopic configuration of the urinary tract when a tension-free anastomosis proves challenging. Although urinary incontinence is expected, an artificial urinary sphincter could be placed in the following months.
CONCLUSION: The robotic management of complex vesicourethral anastomosis stenosis with transperineal urethral advancement is a feasible and safe procedure that requires the interdisciplinary management of robotic and reconstructive urologists.

Citation: Rodriguez VI, et al. Robotic Management of Complex Vesicourethral Anastomosis Stenosis With Transperineal Urethral Advancement: A Step-by-Step Technique. Robotic Management of Complex Vesicourethral Anastomosis Stenosis With Transperineal Urethral Advancement: A Step-by-Step Technique. 2024; 184:e256-e257. doi: 10.1016/j.urology.2023.10.035

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38036219/
