PMID: 38036051
Title: Evolving Paradigms in Transcatheter Aortic Valve Replacement: Results from a High-Volume, Single Center Experience.

Abstract: Given the expanding indications toward younger patients at lower surgical risk, transcatheter aortic valve replacement (TAVR) simplification and streamlining are gaining increasing importance. Patients who underwent TAVR from the year 2015 to 2020 were prospectively enrolled. The patients were divided in time tertiles according to the date of intervention. Data on preprocedural planning, including coronary computed tomography angiography (CCTA), procedures, and outcomes, were compared between the time tertiles. A total of 771 consecutive patients from a single institution were enrolled. We observed a trend toward the use of a fully percutaneous versus surgical approach for the index access, left radial artery versus contralateral femoral artery for the secondary access, and left ventricular pacing on the stiff guidewire versus right ventricular pacing. Immediate device success significantly increased, whereas the length of hospital stay decreased. Overall, approximately 60% of the total study population underwent CCTA instead of coronary angiography, with no adverse events. One-year survival rates significantly improved over time. A simplified TAVR approach was associated with better survival, whereas low baseline functional capacity, preexisting coronary artery disease, renal impairment, periprocedural blood transfusions, and paravalvular leak were related to worse outcomes. In conclusion, our study showed a constant tendency to procedure streamlining and improve procedural success and 1-year outcomes. A strategy based on CCTA allows sparing safely almost half of the preoperative invasive coronary angiography.

Citation: Costa G, et al. Evolving Paradigms in Transcatheter Aortic Valve Replacement: Results from a High-Volume, Single Center Experience. Evolving Paradigms in Transcatheter Aortic Valve Replacement: Results from a High-Volume, Single Center Experience. 2024; 212:118-126. doi: 10.1016/j.amjcard.2023.11.048

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38036051/
