PMID: 38049784
Title: Diagnostic efficacy and safety of radial probe endobronchial ultrasound-guided transbronchial needle aspiration for adjacent lesions in segmental or subsegmental bronchi: a single-center retrospective study.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Peripheral lung lesions can be sampled using various techniques, including computer tomography-guided transthoracic needle aspiration, electromagnetic navigation bronchoscopy, virtual navigation bronchoscopy, and radial probe endobronchial ultrasound transbronchial lung biopsy. Mediastinal lesions can be sampled using techniques like convex probe endobronchial ultrasound-guided transbronchial needle aspiration (CEBUS-TBNA) and endoscopic ultrasound-fine-needle aspiration. However, effective, safe techniques for lesions adjacent to the segmental or subsegmental bronchi are lacking. Herein, we retrospectively evaluated the diagnostic yield and safety of radial probe endobronchial ultrasound-assisted transbronchial needle aspiration (REBUS-TBNA) for lesions adjacent to the segmental bronchi, and explored the factors related to diagnostic yield.
METHODS: We retrospectively analyzed the diagnostic yield and safety of REBUS-TBNA cases performed in our department from January 2019 to December 2022. Observation group patients had undergone REBUS-TBNA for lesions adjacent to the segmental bronchi; control group patients had undergone CEBUS-TBNA for mediastinal or hilar lesions. Patient characteristics and lesion sizes, diagnostic yield, adverse events, and relations between diagnostic yield and clinical characteristics were analyzed.
RESULTS: There were not statistically significant between-group differences in sex, age, diagnostic yield, or rate of adverse events. The observation group (n = 25; 17 male, 8 female) had a mean age of 64.76 ± 10.75 years. The average lesion size was 4.66 ± 1.07 cm, and lesions were predominantly in the upper lobes (80%). REBUS-TBNA diagnostic yield was 84%, with no adverse events reported. Diagnostic yield was not associated with lesion size or extent of bronchial stenosis; however, it was positively correlated with number of punctures. Patients with > 3 punctures had a significantly higher diagnostic yield than those with ≤ 3 punctures.
CONCLUSIONS: REBUS-TBNA is a safe, effective diagnostic technique, particularly for lesions adjacent to the segmental or subsegmental bronchi of the upper lobe. Performing more than three punctures during the procedure improves the diagnostic yield. Larger-scale studies are warranted to confirm these results, and to further explore the clinical value of REBUS-TBNA.

Citation: Ma D, et al. Diagnostic efficacy and safety of radial probe endobronchial ultrasound-guided transbronchial needle aspiration for adjacent lesions in segmental or subsegmental bronchi: a single-center retrospective study. Diagnostic efficacy and safety of radial probe endobronchial ultrasound-guided transbronchial needle aspiration for adjacent lesions in segmental or subsegmental bronchi: a single-center retrospective study. 2023; 23:485. doi: 10.1186/s12890-023-02781-1

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38049784/
