PMID: 38049035
Title: A novel approach for diabetic foot diagnosis: Deep learning-based detection of lower extremity arterial stenosis.

Abstract: PURPOSE OF THE STUDY: Assessing the lower extremity arterial stenosis scores (LEASS) in patients with diabetic foot ulcer (DFU) is a challenging task that requires considerable time and efforts from physicians, and it may yield varying results. The presence of vascular wall calcification and other irrelevant tissue information surrounding the vessel can further compound the difficulties of this evaluation. Automatic detection of lower extremity arterial stenosis (LEAS) is expected to help doctors develop treatment plans for patients faster.
METHODS: In this paper, we first reconstructed the 3D model of blood vessels by medical digital image processing and then utilized it as the training data for deep learning (DL) in conjunction with the non-calcified part of blood vessels in the original data. We proposed an improved model of vascular stenosis small target detection based on YOLOv5. We added Convolutional Block Attention Module (CBAM) in backbone, replaced Path Aggregation Network (PANET) with Bidirectional Feature Pyramid Network (BiFPN) and replaced C3 with GhostC3 in neck to improve the recognition of three types of stenosis targets (I: <50 %, II: 51 % - 99 %, III: completely occluded). Additionally, we utilized K-Means++ instead of K-Means for better algorithm convergence performance, and enhanced the Complete-IoU (CIoU) loss function to Alpha-Scylla-IoU (ASIoU) loss for faster reasoning and convergence. Lastly, we conducted comparisons between our approach and five other prominent models.
RESULT: Our method had the best average ability to detect three types of stenosis with 85.40% mean Average Precision (mAP) and 74.60 Frames Per Second (FPS) and explored the possibility of applying DL to the detection of LEAS in diabetic foot. The code is available at github.com/wuchongxin/yolov5_LEAS.git.

Citation: Wu C, et al. A novel approach for diabetic foot diagnosis: Deep learning-based detection of lower extremity arterial stenosis. A novel approach for diabetic foot diagnosis: Deep learning-based detection of lower extremity arterial stenosis. 2024; 207:111032. doi: 10.1016/j.diabres.2023.111032

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38049035/
