PMID: 38046648
Title: Right ventricular to pulmonary arterial coupling in patients with repaired tetralogy of Fallot: a case series.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: In repaired tetralogy of Fallot (ToF) patients with residual right ventricular (RV) outflow tract obstructions (RVOTO), risk stratification and timing of re-interventions are based on RVOTO gradients. However, this might be insufficient to prevent RV dysfunction. Instead, assessment of RV to pulmonary arterial (RV-PA) coupling allows integrated assessment of RV function in relationship to its afterload and could be of additional value in clinical decision-making.
CASE SUMMARY: Two patients with repaired ToF and residual RVOTO without pulmonary regurgitation underwent right heart catheterization (RHC) and cardiac magnetic resonance imaging. We determined RV end-systolic elastance (Ees), arterial elastance (Ea) and RV-PA coupling (Ees/Ea) using single-beat RV pressure-volume analysis. Patient 1 was asymptomatic despite severely increased RV pressures and a left pulmonary artery (LPA) stenosis (invasive gradient 20 mmHg). Right ventricular volumes and function were preserved. The Ea and Ees were increased but RV-PA coupling was relatively maintained. Of interest, RV end-diastolic pressure and RV diastolic stiffness were increased. After LPA plasty, RV function was preserved during long-term follow-up. Patient 2 was symptomatic despite mildly elevated RV pressures and a supravalvular RV-PA conduit stenosis (invasive gradient 30 mmHg). The RV showed severe RV dilatation and dysfunction. The Ea was increased but Ees was decreased leading to RV-PA uncoupling. Despite balloon angioplasty, RV function was unchanged during long-term follow-up.
DISCUSSION: Development of RV dysfunction might be insufficiently predicted by RVOTO severity in patients with repaired ToF. Assessment of RV remodelling and function in relationship to its afterload might help to optimize risk stratification.

Citation: Joosen RS, et al. Right ventricular to pulmonary arterial coupling in patients with repaired tetralogy of Fallot: a case series. Right ventricular to pulmonary arterial coupling in patients with repaired tetralogy of Fallot: a case series. 2023; 7:ytad583. doi: 10.1093/ehjcr/ytad583

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38046648/
