PMID: 38047581
Title: The Third Channel-Assisted Unilateral Biportal Endoscopic Technique for Lumbar Spinal Stenosis Combined with Contralateral Disc Herniation.

Abstract: Unilateral biportal endoscopic (UBE) spine surgery is an emerging minimally invasive surgical (MIS) technique that has gained popularity for treating lumbar spinal stenosis, particularly in Eastern Asia. The traditional UBE technique, with two portals on one side, can achieve successful unilateral laminotomy for bilateral decompression (ULBD) and, therefore, demonstrates favorable clinical outcomes. However, in the case of lumbar spinal stenosis combined with contralateral disc herniation, it is very difficult to remove the contralateral disc herniation, especially the loose disc fragment within the deep disc. Here, a third channel of the traditional UBE technique was developed to do the discectomy within the ipsilateral endoscopic vision, with which the instruments can go vertically into the contralateral disc, allowing easy discectomy. This technique can not only achieve adequate decompression of the bilateral spinal canal but also effectively remove contralateral herniated disc fragments. This technique avoids performing another UBE procedure on the opposite side, which can potentially shorten the duration of the operation, minimize blood loss and tissue damage, and ensure sufficient neural decompression. This paper will introduce the indications and surgical operation procedures, as well as present a classical case report and follow-up data, to facilitate the application of the third channel-assisted UBE (T-UBE) technique for spine surgeons.

Citation: Tan L, et al. The Third Channel-Assisted Unilateral Biportal Endoscopic Technique for Lumbar Spinal Stenosis Combined with Contralateral Disc Herniation. The Third Channel-Assisted Unilateral Biportal Endoscopic Technique for Lumbar Spinal Stenosis Combined with Contralateral Disc Herniation. 2023; (unknown volume):(unknown pages). doi: 10.3791/65262

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38047581/
