PMID: 38041036
Title: Effects of "fixation-fusion" sequence of lumbar surgery on surgical outcomes for patients with lumbar spinal stenosis: study protocol for a multicenter randomized controlled trial.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: New-onset neurological symptoms such as numbness and pain in lower extremities might appear immediately after conventional lumbar interbody fusion (LIF) surgery performed in patients with lumbar spinal stenosis.
METHODS AND ANALYSIS: This is a multicenter, randomized, open-label, parallel-group, active-controlled trial investigating the clinical outcomes of modified LIF sequence versus conventional LIF sequence in treating patients with lumbar spinal stenosis. A total of 254 eligible patients will be enrolled and randomized in a 1:1 ratio to either modified LIF sequence or conventional LIF sequence group. The primary outcome measure is the perioperative incidence of new-onset lower extremity neurological symptoms, including new adverse events of pain, numbness, and foot drop of any severity. Important secondary endpoints include visual analogue scale (VAS) pain score and lumbar Japanese Orthopaedic Association (JOA) recovery rate. Other safety endpoints will also be evaluated. The safety set used for safety data analysis by the actual surgical treatment received and the full analysis set for baseline and efficacy data analyses according to the intent-to-treat principle will be established as the two analysis populations in the study.
CONCLUSION: This study is designed to investigate the clinical outcomes of modified LIF sequences in patients with lumbar spinal stenosis. It aims to provide clinical evidence that the modified "fixation-fusion" sequence of LIF surgery is effective in treating lumbar spinal stenosis.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: http://www.chictr.org.cn/index.aspx ID: ChiCTR2100048507.

Citation: Pan W, et al. Effects of "fixation-fusion" sequence of lumbar surgery on surgical outcomes for patients with lumbar spinal stenosis: study protocol for a multicenter randomized controlled trial. Effects of "fixation-fusion" sequence of lumbar surgery on surgical outcomes for patients with lumbar spinal stenosis: study protocol for a multicenter randomized controlled trial. 2023; 24:928. doi: 10.1186/s12891-023-07052-y

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38041036/
