PMID: 38043127
Title: Evaluation of lumbar paraspinal muscles degeneration and fatty infiltration in dynamic sagittal imbalance based on magnetic resonance imaging.

Abstract: PURPOSE: To explore degeneration and fatty infiltration (FI) of lumbar paraspinal muscles in patients with dynamic sagittal imbalance (DSI) and the relationship between lumbar paraspinal muscles degeneration, fatty infiltration and severity of the disease.
METHODS: We recruited 41 DSI patients and selected 22 lumbar spinal stenosis (LSS) patients without osphyalgia as controls. All patients received magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scan and DSI patients also received pre-walk and post-walk X-rays. DSI patients were divided into 2 subgroups according to their symptom improvement after conservative treatment. We calculated rmCSA and FI of the lumbar paraspinal muscles. The rmCSA and FI between DSI and control and between DSI subgroups were compared by t test. The regression analysis was used to explore the risk factors influencing disease severity. Receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curves and area under curves (AUCs) were used to evaluate the severity of the disease.
RESULTS: In comparison of rmCSA and FI between DSI and control, there are significant differences of most muscles. In comparison of rmCSA between two subgroups, there are significant differences of most muscles, while in comparison of FI, only muscles in L4 segment have significant different. In logistic regression analysis, total rmCSA and total FI are risk factors influencing disease severity. ROC curves shows that total rmCSA and total FI both achieve an AUC greater than 0.7.
CONCLUSION: Compared with control, DSI patients have degeneration and fatty infiltration of the lumbar paraspinal muscles. The degeneration and fatty infiltration are risk factors influencing disease severity. The total rmCSA and total FI can be used as an indicator to determine whether a patient has severe DSI.

Citation: Gao Y, et al. Evaluation of lumbar paraspinal muscles degeneration and fatty infiltration in dynamic sagittal imbalance based on magnetic resonance imaging. Evaluation of lumbar paraspinal muscles degeneration and fatty infiltration in dynamic sagittal imbalance based on magnetic resonance imaging. 2024; 33:1840-1849. doi: 10.1007/s00586-023-08033-4

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38043127/
