PMID: 38046217
Title: In vivo optical coherence tomography visualisation of coronary artery embolism caused by BioGlue in a middle-aged woman with Marfan syndrome who underwent the Bentall procedure: a case report.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Coronary artery embolism caused by BioGlue is a rare complication; therefore, its diagnosis and treatment remain undefined.
CASE SUMMARY: A 47-year-old woman underwent ascending aortic replacement and coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG) for type A acute aortic dissection involving the right coronary artery ostium in 2017. Subsequently, she was diagnosed with Marfan syndrome. Five years later in 2022, she underwent aortic arch replacement, the Bentall procedure, and repeat CABG because of aortic root enlargement and aortic regurgitation progression. Twelve days after surgery, coronary computed tomography angiography (CCTA) revealed left anterior descending (LAD) artery stenosis, whereas pre-operative CCTA was normal. On post-operative day 13, coronary angiography revealed 99% LAD artery stenosis. Intravascular ultrasound (IVUS) showed a non-echoic mass with clear margins, and optical coherence tomography (OCT) demonstrated a crystalloid mass. Both images suggested that the embolus was inorganic matter, suspected as being the surgical adhesive BioGlue. We could not remove the embolus by repeated thrombectomy; therefore, drug-eluting stent implantation was performed. Seven months after surgery, she had no symptoms, and CCTA confirmed stent patency.
DISCUSSION: To our knowledge, this is the first case report to describe BioGlue embolism observed by OCT. We performed an in vitro study using a blood vessel model, and the obtained OCT image was very similar to the in vivo image. Although BioGlue embolism is a rare complication, it should be considered in cases of perioperative myocardial infarction of uncertain aetiology, and coronary imaging is useful for diagnosis.

Citation: Hamaguchi Y, et al. In vivo optical coherence tomography visualisation of coronary artery embolism caused by BioGlue in a middle-aged woman with Marfan syndrome who underwent the Bentall procedure: a case report. In vivo optical coherence tomography visualisation of coronary artery embolism caused by BioGlue in a middle-aged woman with Marfan syndrome who underwent the Bentall procedure: a case report. 2023; 7:ytad585. doi: 10.1093/ehjcr/ytad585

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38046217/
