PMID: 38059463
Title: Serration Angioplasty Is Associated With Less Recoil in Infrapopliteal Arteries Compared With Plain Balloon Angioplasty.

Abstract: PURPOSE: Recoil following balloon angioplasty of tibial arteries is a known mechanism of lumen loss and widely considered to be a contributing factor in early failure or later restenosis. The Serranator balloon has been designed to provide a controlled lumen gain while minimizing vessel injury. The objective of this study was to assess the ability to define and measure postangioplasty recoil in infrapopliteal arteries and to compare recoil after serration angioplasty and plain balloon angioplasty (POBA).
METHODS: This multi-center, sequential comparative study included patients with de novo or restenotic lesions of infrapopliteal arteries up to 22 cm in length. Patients were enrolled sequentially and underwent alternating POBA or serration angioplasty with Serranator. The study captured angiographic imaging at pre, immediately post, and 15-minute after angioplasty. Vessel recoil, final diameter stenosis, and dissection were compared using core laboratory analysis.
RESULTS: This study enrolled 36 patients who underwent treatment of 39 infrapopliteal lesions. There was no significant difference between Serranator (n=20) and POBA (n=19) with respect to baseline demographics and lesion characteristics. Arterial recoil (>10%) occurred in 25% of Serranator-treated lesions versus 64% in POBA-treated lesions (p=0.02. Clinically relevant recoil (>30%) was present after serration angioplasty in 10% of patients and after POBA in 53% (p=0.01). There was no significant difference in technical success (100% for both), dissection rate between Serranator (5%) and POBA (5.2%).
CONCLUSIONS: Arterial recoil occurs after infrapopliteal angioplasty. Serration angioplasty produces substantially less arterial recoil compared with POBA. Additional studies are needed to assess whether reduced arterial recoil translates into superior long-term clinical outcomes.
CLINICAL IMPACT: Prior studies have demonstrated over 90% recoil in patients after balloon angioplasty (POBA) of the infrapopliteal vessels, which significantly impacts the durability and impact of endovascular interventions in this clinical space. This study compared recoil after infrapopliteal angioplasty with serration angioplasty and POBA. Serration angioplasty produces substantially less arterial recoil compared with POBA. Additional studies are needed to assess whether reduced arterial recoil translates into superior long-term clinical outcomes.

Citation: Fereydooni A, et al. Serration Angioplasty Is Associated With Less Recoil in Infrapopliteal Arteries Compared With Plain Balloon Angioplasty. Serration Angioplasty Is Associated With Less Recoil in Infrapopliteal Arteries Compared With Plain Balloon Angioplasty. 2023; (unknown volume):15266028231215284. doi: 10.1177/15266028231215284

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38059463/
