PMID: 38052302
Title: Protein and Exercise to Reverse Frailty in Older Men and Women Undergoing Transcatheter Aortic Valve Replacement: Design of the PERFORM-TAVR Trial.

Abstract: Despite the high procedural success of transcatheter aortic valve replacement (TAVR), 2 out of 5 older adults report poor physical performance and health-related quality of life (HRQOL) in the ensuing months, particularly those with frailty. There has yet to be a trial examining the synergistic effects of exercise and protein supplementation to counteract frailty and improve patient-centred outcomes following TAVR. The PERFORM-TAVR trial is a multicentre parallel-group randomised clinical trial that is enrolling 200 frail older adults ≥ 70 years of age undergoing TAVR. Patients will be randomly allocated to 1 of 2 treatment groups: standard-of-care lifestyle education (control group) or protein-rich oral nutritional supplement for 4 weeks before TAVR with the addition of home-based supervised exercise sessions for 12 weeks after TAVR (intervention group). The primary outcome will be physical performance as measured by a blinded observer using the Short Physical Performance Battery at 3 months. Secondary outcomes at 3, 6, and 12 months will include HRQOL, as measured by the Short-Form 36 Physical and Mental Component summary scores, and a composite safety end point. The PERFORM-TAVR trial is testing a novel frailty intervention in older adults undergoing TAVR to optimise recovery and downstream HRQOL. This represents a potential paradigm shift that highlights the value of assessing and treating patients' frailty in parallel with their underlying heart valve disease. CLINICAL TRIAL REGISTRATION: URL: https://www.clinicaltrials.gov. Unique identifier: NCT03522454.

Citation: Fountotos R, et al. Protein and Exercise to Reverse Frailty in Older Men and Women Undergoing Transcatheter Aortic Valve Replacement: Design of the PERFORM-TAVR Trial. Protein and Exercise to Reverse Frailty in Older Men and Women Undergoing Transcatheter Aortic Valve Replacement: Design of the PERFORM-TAVR Trial. 2024; 40:267-274. doi: 10.1016/j.cjca.2023.11.037

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38052302/
