PMID: 38054124
Title: Virtual Reality Therapy as an Adjunct to Physiotherapy for Postoperative Pain Management: A Case Report of Laparoscopic Open Pyeloplasty for Hydronephrosis.

Abstract: Hydronephrosis occurs when the tubes connecting the kidneys and bladder become blocked. These tubes carry urine from the kidneys, where it is created, to the bladder, where it is stored until elimination. When one or both ureters get blocked, serious complications and symptoms might arise. These symptoms include urinary tract obstruction, urine backflow, kidney distension, increased intra-renal pressure, impaired kidney function, infection risk, urinary incontinence, which is the involuntary loss of urine, and discomfort in the side, abdomen, or groin. This case report describes the effective postoperative management of abdominal surgery with virtual reality therapy (VRT) combined with standard medical care as additional therapy and physical therapy for hydronephrosis in a 22-year-old male patient. After undergoing laparoscopic open pyeloplasty, the patient developed right-sided hydronephrosis due to ureteral stenosis. He had a ureteral stent inserted and received physical therapy, including pelvic floor muscle training, core strengthening, and diaphragmatic breathing exercises. After four weeks of physical therapy, the patient reported improvement in his symptoms, including reduced discomfort and increased urination. These findings imply that physical therapy, in addition to advanced treatment with the help of VRT for hydronephrosis following abdominal surgery, might be beneficial.

Citation: Puri SN, et al. Virtual Reality Therapy as an Adjunct to Physiotherapy for Postoperative Pain Management: A Case Report of Laparoscopic Open Pyeloplasty for Hydronephrosis. Virtual Reality Therapy as an Adjunct to Physiotherapy for Postoperative Pain Management: A Case Report of Laparoscopic Open Pyeloplasty for Hydronephrosis. 2023; 15:e48254. doi: 10.7759/cureus.48254

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38054124/
