PMID: 38050306
Title: Intestinal stent implantation using a water injection device with carbon dioxide and transparent cap: A case report.

Abstract: RATIONALE: Preoperative endoscopic intestinal stent placement can relieve the symptoms of malignant bowel obstruction (MBO) pending investigations, staging, and surgery, but it is a technically challenging procedure. This paper presents a woman with MBO who successfully underwent intestinal stent implantation using a water injection device with carbon dioxide and a transparent cap.
PATIENT CONCERNS: We reported a technique for endoscopic intestinal stent placement. A 60-year-old female patient was admitted for abdominal pain and poor bowel movement for 10 days. Computed tomography at a local hospital suggested local stenosis.
DIAGNOSES: A transparent cap was placed in front of a gastroscope and was used to cross part of the stenotic segment, with water being injected to fill the intestinal cavity continuously. An angiographic catheter was sent along the yellow zebra guidewire passing through the stenotic segment. After exchanging for a colonoscope, a 12-cm intestinal stent was placed along the guidewire.
INTERVENTIONS: The physician used a single-person water injection-assisted colonoscopy technique in combination with a carbon dioxide gas pump to assist with the air insufflation for colonoscope insertion through the lumen and repeatedly injected water solution to ensure a transparent colonoscopic view.
OUTCOMES: No intraoperative or postoperative complications were observed. One week after endoscopic intestinal stent placement, the patient underwent radical left hemicolectomy for colon cancer and release of bowel adhesion. The postoperative pathology revealed adenocarcinoma with perineural invasion. The patient recovered well after surgery.
LESSONS: Single-person intestinal stent implantation using a water injection device with carbon dioxide and a transparent cap can achieve endoscopic intestinal stent placement for MBO.

Citation: Wang C, et al. Intestinal stent implantation using a water injection device with carbon dioxide and transparent cap: A case report. Intestinal stent implantation using a water injection device with carbon dioxide and transparent cap: A case report. 2023; 102:e36330. doi: 10.1097/MD.0000000000036330

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38050306/
