PMID: 38058919
Title: Use of Simulation Based Training to Enhance Cardiac Auscultation Proficiency.

Abstract: UNLABELLED: This article was migrated. The article was marked as recommended.
INTRODUCTION: Cardiopulmonary auscultation is an important skill for medical professionals with deficiencies being well documented with broad implications on healthcare. Providing ideal bedside auscultatory teaching presents many difficulties. Simulation has been used as a means to improve cardiac auscultatory training and circumvent some of these limitations.
METHODS: We studied the use of Harvey © simulation in teaching cardiac murmurs and whether there was improvement in short term knowledge, as well as testing long term knowledge retention, as measured through a standardized test. From 2014-2019, 124 medical students in their 2 nd and 3 rd year of school (during the clinical portion of medical school curriculum) rotating through an Internal Medicine rotation completed a 2 hour training course on cardiac auscultation using Harvey © to identify six common cardiac murmurs. The session contained a pretest, didactic session, and posttest.
RESULTS: 124 students participated in the auscultatory training session. Of them, 42 (34%) underwent the session a second time at an average of 1.29 months from their first session. There was statistically significant improvement between tests. Notably, the most often missed murmurs were mitral stenosis and benign (innocent) flow murmur.
DISCUSSION/CONCLUSIONS: As shown in our study, simulation based cardiac auscultatory education is feasible and likely beneficial in medical education as it can be delivered to a large group of trainees and overcomes the challenges of bedside teaching.

Citation: Lavoie M, et al. Use of Simulation Based Training to Enhance Cardiac Auscultation Proficiency. Use of Simulation Based Training to Enhance Cardiac Auscultation Proficiency. 2020; 9:258. doi: 10.15694/mep.2020.000258.1

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38058919/
