PMID: 38053508
Title: Multicenter Randomized Controlled Trial of APERTO-Paclitaxel Drug-Eluting Balloon Angioplasty Versus Standard Percutaneous Transluminal Angioplasty in Dysfunctional Hemodialysis Grafts and Native Fistulae.

Abstract: PURPOSE: to assess the safety and efficacy of APERTO-Paclitaxel-coated balloon angioplasty versus standard angioplasty for the treatment of dysfunctional hemodialysis shunts and native arteriovenous fistulae.
METHODS: consecutive patients with dysfunctional dialysis related to underlying efferent vein stenosis were included and randomized 1:1 to either APERTO-paclitaxel drug-coated balloon (study arm) or standard percutaneous transluminal angioplasty (control arm). Primary endpoint is time from treatment until dialysis access dysfunction according to standardized Kidney Disease Outcomes Quality Initiative (KDOQI)-guidelines and assessed by Kaplan-Meier survival curves and tested for significance with log-rank analysis. Secondary endpoints include device, technical, and clinical success of the index angioplasty procedure.
RESULTS: The study included 103 patients (n=51 study-group) with a de novo (n=33) dysfunctional native arteriovenous fistula (n=79) in the forearm (n=60). The majority of included patients were male with a mean age of 69.8 years, presenting with a dysfunctioning autologous arteriovenous fistula in the forearm. Device-related complications did not occur in any of the included patients. Functional hemodialysis access without need for re-intervention at 1 year after index procedure was found in n=10 (19.6%) and n=5 (9.6%) of patients treated with, respectively, paclitaxel drug-coated balloon and percutaneous transluminal angioplasty (p=0.612). A nonsignificant benefit of paclitaxel drug-coated balloon (n=5; 25%) over percutaneous transluminal angioplasty (n=1; 11%) was found (p=0.953) in de novo lesions in autologous fistulas.
CONCLUSION: APERTO-paclitaxel drug-coated balloon is a safe balloon catheter to manage dysfunctional hemodialysis access; however, longer period of adequate hemodialysis circuit functioning after endovascular index stenosis treatment, using APERTO-paclitaxel drug-coated balloon versus percutaneous transluminal angioplasty could not be demonstrated.
CLINICAL IMPACT: APERTO-paclitaxel drug-coated balloon catheter is a safe device to manage dysfunctional hemodialysis access. Compared to conventional angioplasty balloon, the APERTO drug-coated balloon will not result in longer period of adequate hemodialysis circuit functioning. A non-significant benefit of APERTO drug-coated balloon was found in de novo lesions in autologous fistulas.

Citation: Maleux G, et al. Multicenter Randomized Controlled Trial of APERTO-Paclitaxel Drug-Eluting Balloon Angioplasty Versus Standard Percutaneous Transluminal Angioplasty in Dysfunctional Hemodialysis Grafts and Native Fistulae. Multicenter Randomized Controlled Trial of APERTO-Paclitaxel Drug-Eluting Balloon Angioplasty Versus Standard Percutaneous Transluminal Angioplasty in Dysfunctional Hemodialysis Grafts and Native Fistulae. 2023; (unknown volume):15266028231215212. doi: 10.1177/15266028231215212

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38053508/
