PMID: 38051417
Title: Revascularization with BYCROSS atherectomy device- protocol of a prospective multicenter observational study.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: The BYCROSS™ device is a novel device intended for use in atherectomy of the peripheral arterial disease (PAD). With the BYCROSS™ atherectomy system, also prolonged calcifying lesions can be treated in a minimally invasive manner, which was previously reserved for bypass surgery. The aim of this study is to collect additional clinical data on safety and performance of the BYCROSS™ from patients undergoing revascularization of severely stenotic or occluded peripheral arterial vessels with the BYCROSS™.
METHODS AND DESIGN: This is an investigator-initiated national prospective multicenter observational study in patients with PAD. Sixty patients (20 per center) with PAD with stenosis higher than 80% or complete occlusion (de novo or recurrent stenosis) of vessels below the aortic bifurcation (min 3 mm vessel diameter) will be recruited. Three vascular surgery centers are participating in the study. The primary efficacy endpoint is procedural success, defined as passage of the occlusion through the BYCROSS device, and safety outcomes, explicated as freedom from device-related serious adverse events (SADEs). Secondary endpoints include primary and secondary patency rates, change in Rutherford classification, and freedom from amputation at 3 and 12 months.
DISCUSSION: The BYCROSS atherectomy system may be a novel device for the minimally invasive treatment of prolonged calcified lesions previously reserved for bypass surgery. This national prospective multicenter observational study could represent another step in demonstrating the efficancy and safety of this device for treatment of PAD.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: #DRKS00029947 (who.int). PROTOCOL APPROVAL ID: #22-0047(Ethics Committee at Ludwig-Maximilians-University Munich).

Citation: Liebetrau D, et al. Revascularization with BYCROSS atherectomy device- protocol of a prospective multicenter observational study. Revascularization with BYCROSS atherectomy device- protocol of a prospective multicenter observational study. 2023; 6:61. doi: 10.1186/s42155-023-00404-8

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38051417/
