PMID: 38063956
Title: Stenosis to stented: decrease in flow disturbances following stent implantation of a diseased arteriovenous fistula.

Abstract: The arteriovenous fistula (AVF) is commonly faced with stenosis at the juxta-anastomotic (JXA) region of the vein. Implantation of a flexible nitinol stent across the stenosed JXA has led to the retention of functioning AVFs leading to the resulting AVF geometry being distinctly altered, thereby affecting the haemodynamic environment within it. In this study, large eddy simulations of the flow field within a patient-specific AVF geometry before and after stent implantation were conducted to detail the change in flow features. Although the diseased AVF had much lower flow rates, adverse flow features, such as recirculation zones and swirling flow at the anastomosis, and jet flow at the stenosis site were present. Larger velocity fluctuations (leading to higher turbulent kinetic energy) stemming from these flow features were apparent in the diseased AVF compared to the stented AVF. The unsteadiness at the stenosis created large regions of wall shear stress (WSS) fluctuations downstream of the stenosis site that were not as apparent in the stented AVF geometry. The larger pressure drop across the diseased vein, compared to the stented vein, was primarily caused by the constriction at the stenosis, potentially causing the lower flow rate. Furthermore, the WSS fluctuations in the diseased AVF could lead to further disease progression downstream of the stenosis. The change in bulk flow unsteadiness, pressure drop, and WSS behaviour confirms that the haemodynamic environment of the diseased AVF has substantially improved following the flexible stent implantation.

Citation: Gunasekera S, et al. Stenosis to stented: decrease in flow disturbances following stent implantation of a diseased arteriovenous fistula. Stenosis to stented: decrease in flow disturbances following stent implantation of a diseased arteriovenous fistula. 2024; 23:453-468. doi: 10.1007/s10237-023-01784-5

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38063956/
