PMID: 38060820
Title: Value evaluation of serum (sdLDLc*HCYc)/HDLc ratio in the stability of intracranial arterial plaques in patients with acute cerebral infarction.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: We aimed to analyze the value of serum (sdLDLc*HCYc)/HDLc ratio in the stability of intracranial arterial plaques among patients with acute cerebral infarction.
METHODS: A retrospective analysis was conducted on 140 patients with acute cerebral infarction admitted to the neurology department and 101 healthy individuals for regular examinations in our hospital from 2013 to 2019, who were respectively allocated into the study group and the control group. Participants in both groups were measured for serum sdLDLc, HDLc, and HCYc using peroxidase method, enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay, and enzyme method, respectively. The laboratory indexes of the two groups were compared. The multivariate logistic regression analysis was done to analyze the influencing factors of the stability of intracranial artery plaque in patients with acute cerebral infarction. The value of high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL-C), homocysteine, sdLDLc, (sdLDLc*HCYc)/HDLc in diagnosing the stability of intracranial artery plaque was also evaluated in patients with acute cerebral infarction.
RESULTS: There was no distinct difference in height, hypertension, diabetes, coronary heart disease, smoking history and drinking history between the two groups (P>0.05). The study group showed statistically significant differences in age, gender, weight, and BMI (P<0.05). The current study demonstrated no statistical difference in the levels of TG, low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C), α-lipoprotein, and HCYc between the two groups (P>0.05). However, the levels of TC, HDL-C, sdLDLc, (sdLDLc*HCYc)/HDLc in the study group were significantly different when comparing with the control group (P<0.05). No statistically significant difference was found in the levels of TG, triglycerides, LDL-C, α-lipoprotein, and HCYc among patients with different degrees of stenosis in the study group (P>0.05). The level of HDL-C was significantly lower in cases of severe stenosis compared to no stenosis, mild stenosis and moderate stenosis, with severe stenosis showing the lowest levels; mild stenosis had lower levels than no stenosis, while moderate stenosis had lower levels than both no stenosis and mild stenosis (P<0.05). The levels of sdLDLc, (sdLDLc*HCYc)/HDLc exhibited a significant increase in cases of severe stenosis as compared tono stenosis, mild stenosis, and moderate stenosis. Furthermore, the levels of sdLDLc, (sdLDLc*HCYc)/HDLc were found to be higher in moderate stenosis as compared to no stenosis and mild stenosis. Similarly, the levels of sdLDLc, (sdLDLc*HCYc)/HDLc were observed to be higher in mild stenosis than no stenosis (P<0.05).The independent variables were set as the indicators with difference in single factor comparison, including age, gender, BMI, TC, LDL-C, HDL-C, HCYc, sdLDLc, (sdLDLc*HCYc)/HDLc. The dependent variable was the stability of intracranial artery plaque in patients with acute cerebral infarction. After variable selection, the results showed that the factors influencing the stability of intracranial artery plaque in patients with acute cerebral infarction were age, BMI, (sdLDLc*HCYc)/HDLc. The degree of plaque enhancement was used as a criterion to reflect the stability of plaque. ROC curve analysis showed that (sdLDLc*HCYc)/HDLc had a higher evaluation value for the stability of intracranial artery plaque than HDL-C, homocysteine, and sdLDLc in patients with acute cerebral infarction.
CONCLUSION: The serum (sdLDLc*HCYc)/HDLc ratio was found to have potential in evaluating the stability of intracranial arterial plaques in patients with acute cerebral infarction.

Citation: Hao H, et al. Value evaluation of serum (sdLDLc*HCYc)/HDLc ratio in the stability of intracranial arterial plaques in patients with acute cerebral infarction. Value evaluation of serum (sdLDLc*HCYc)/HDLc ratio in the stability of intracranial arterial plaques in patients with acute cerebral infarction. 2023; 70:911-917. doi: 10.18388/abp.2020_6817

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38060820/
