PMID: 38061538
Title: Predictors of Clinical Failure after Endoscopic Lumbar Spine Surgery During the Initial Learning Curve.

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: This study aims to identify clinical factors that may predict failed endoscopic lumbar spine surgery to guide surgeons with patient selection during the initial learning curve.
METHODS: This is an Australasian prospective analysis of the first 105 patients to undergo lumbar endoscopic spine decompression by 3 surgeons. Modified MacNab outcomes, visual analog scale (VAS) and Oswestry Disability Index (ODI) scores were utilized to evaluate clinical outcomes at 6 months postoperatively. Descriptive statistics and ANOVA t tests were performed to measure statistically significant (P < 0.05) associations between variables using GraphPad Prism v10.
RESULTS: Patients undergoing endoscopic lumbar surgery via an interlaminar or transforaminal approach have overall good/excellent modified MacNab outcomes and a significant reduction in postoperative VAS and ODI scores. Regardless of the anatomic location of disc herniations, good/excellent modified MacNab outcomes and significant reductions in VAS and ODI were reported post-operatively, however, not in patients with calcified disc herniations. Patients with central and foraminal stenosis overall reported poor/fair modified MacNab outcomes, however, there were significant reductions in VAS and ODI scores postoperatively. Patients with subarticular stenosis or an associated spondylolisthesis reported good/excellent modified MacNab outcomes and significant reductions in VAS and ODI scores postoperatively. Patients with disc herniation and concurrent degenerative stenosis had generally poor/fair modified MacNab outcomes.
CONCLUSIONS: The outcomes of endoscopic spine surgery are encouraging with low complication and reoperation rates. However, patients with calcified disc herniations, central canal stenosis, or disc herniation with concurrent degenerative stenosis present challenges during the initial learning curve and may benefit from traditional open or other minimally invasive techniques.

Citation: Scherman DB, et al. Predictors of Clinical Failure after Endoscopic Lumbar Spine Surgery During the Initial Learning Curve. Predictors of Clinical Failure after Endoscopic Lumbar Spine Surgery During the Initial Learning Curve. 2024; 182:e506-e516. doi: 10.1016/j.wneu.2023.11.137

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38061538/
