PMID: 38066822
Title: Isolated Intramural Hematoma of Superior Mesenteric Artery: Case Reports and a Review of Literature.

Abstract: (1) Background: Spontaneous isolated intramural hematoma of the superior mesenteric artery (SIHSMA) is a rare entity often considered as a subset of spontaneous isolated dissection of the superior mesenteric artery (SIDSMA). It is characterized by a completely thrombosed false lumen with or without an ulcer-like projection with computed tomography (CT) imaging. The recent literature describes few reports with a relatively short-term follow-up. The natural course, prognosis, and treatment options for SIHSMA still lack consensus. We present two cases of acute abdominal pain in a young man due to IMH of the superior mesenteric artery with an extensive literature review. (2) Case report: A 46-year-old male patient was submitted to an urgent CTA for acute abdominal pain, showing the presence of an isolated dissection of the superior mesenteric artery, determining significant stenosis of the vessel with collateral vessel patency. The patient referred to a recent COVID-19 infection, whose course was paucisymptomatic. He was conservatively treated with antiplatelet therapy and corticosteroid treatments, and, after a few days, the symptomatology completely regressed; also, the 2-month-control CTA showed complete IMH regression and the absence of any signs of residual stenosis. The second patient was a 61-year-old male patient who was submitted to an urgent CTA for acute abdominal pain, showing the presence of an isolated dissection of the superior mesenteric artery, not determining significant vessel stenosis. He was conservatively treated with antiplatelet therapy and corticosteroid treatment, and after a few days, the symptomatology completely regressed and the radiological control showed complete dissection regression. (3) Conclusion: SISHSMA is a rare entity of vascular pathology, and conservative management represents the best medical strategy. We propose corticosteroid treatment as one of the most appropriate tools in the conservative treatment of SISHSMA.

Citation: Ascione M, et al. Isolated Intramural Hematoma of Superior Mesenteric Artery: Case Reports and a Review of Literature. Isolated Intramural Hematoma of Superior Mesenteric Artery: Case Reports and a Review of Literature. 2023; 13:(unknown pages). doi: 10.3390/diagnostics13233581

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38066822/
