PMID: 38060336
Title: Gender-affirming care in urology: emergency care of the gender-affirming surgical patient-what the primary urologist needs to know.

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: To present a narrative review of fundamental information needed to manage postoperative complications in patients who have undergone genital gender-affirming surgery (GAS).
METHODS: A narrative review was performed using the following keywords: 'gender-affirming surgery', 'complications', 'emergency', 'postoperative'. Articles were included after being reviewed by two primary authors for relevance. Four clinicians with significant experience providing both primary and ongoing urological care to patients after GAS were involved in article selection and analysis.
RESULTS: The most common feminising genital GAS performed is a vaginoplasty. The main post-surgical complications seen by urologists include wound healing complications, voiding dysfunction, postoperative bleeding, vaginal stenosis, acute vaginal prolapse and graft loss, rectovaginal fistula, and urethrovaginal fistula. The most common masculinising genital GAS options include metoidioplasty and phalloplasty. Complications for these surgeries include urethral strictures, urethral fistulae, and urethral diverticula. Penile implants may also accompany phalloplasties and their complications include infection, erosion, migration, and mechanical failure.
CONCLUSION: Genital GAS is increasing, yet there are still many barriers that individuals face not only in accessing the surgeries, but in receiving follow-up care critical for optimal outcomes. Improved education and training programmes would be helpful to identify and manage postoperative complications. Broader cultural level changes are also important to ensure a safe, gender-inclusive environment for all patients.

Citation: Krakowsky Y, et al. Gender-affirming care in urology: emergency care of the gender-affirming surgical patient-what the primary urologist needs to know. Gender-affirming care in urology: emergency care of the gender-affirming surgical patient-what the primary urologist needs to know. 2024; 133:124-131. doi: 10.1111/bju.16249

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38060336/
