PMID: 38070465
Title: Experiences from pre-surgery physiotherapy and thoughts about future exercise among patients with disc herniation or spinal stenosis: A qualitative study.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Continuous exercising after a physiotherapy intervention for low back pain (LBP) is known to be crucial, but sustaining new habits may be challenging.
AIM: To describe patients' pre- and post-surgery experiences after a pre-surgery physiotherapy intervention, and their thoughts about future exercise and self-management.
METHODS: Individual semi-structured interviews at two time-points were analysed with content analysis. Patients randomised to pre-surgery physiotherapy in an RCT evaluating the intervention, who had participated in ≥12 sessions, were invited. Eighteen patients were interviewed 0-8 months after pre-surgery physiotherapy, and sixteen of those completed a second interview 3-14 months later.
RESULTS: Three categories emerged: 1) "Personal experiences from pre-surgery participation", described how participation was perceived as challenging and sometimes stressful, but wellness improved. Cooperation with the physiotherapist was considered crucial and gave confidence. 2) "Attitudes to exercise", described exercise as an action of prevention and rehabilitation that demands motivation. Exercise was perceived to be good for you, physically but also improving mental health and other systems. 3) "Future physical activity - individual responsibility", described the return to former activities and potential challenges for the future. New knowledge was perceived to have changed the prerequisites for exercise and increased security in every-day physical activities.
CONCLUSION: Pre-surgery physiotherapy may enhance self-management through increased confidence, improved knowledge about progression, and awareness about exercise for pain relief, producing a new mindset. Challenges for continuing exercise should be addressed during the intervention. The result can inform supportive strategies for patients to continue with self-management after LBP rehabilitation.

Citation: Lindbäck Y and Carlfjord S. Experiences from pre-surgery physiotherapy and thoughts about future exercise among patients with disc herniation or spinal stenosis: A qualitative study. Experiences from pre-surgery physiotherapy and thoughts about future exercise among patients with disc herniation or spinal stenosis: A qualitative study. 2024; 69:102892. doi: 10.1016/j.msksp.2023.102892

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38070465/
