PMID: 38072497
Title: Study protocol for a prospective, multicentre, phase II trial on endoscopic treatment using two fully covered self-expandable metallic stents for benign strictures after hepaticojejunostomy.

Abstract: INTRODUCTION: The current endoscopic treatment for postoperative benign hepaticojejunostomy anastomotic stricture (HJAS) has a high technical success rate and is highly effective in the short term. However, long-term results have shown a high rate of stenosis recurrence, which indicates an insufficient response to treatment. Three prospective studies on fully covered self-expandable metallic stent (FC-SEMS) treatment for benign HJAS used the stenosis resolution rate as the primary endpoint, and no study has yet used the long-term non-stenosis rate (at 12 months) as the primary endpoint.
METHODS AND ANALYSIS: We launched the 'saddle-cross study', which will be conducted as a multicentre, prospective intervention of endoscopic treatment using two modified FC-SEMSs (BONASTENT️ M-Intraductal) that have been improved for benign stenosis in patients with benign HJAS, with the long-term non-restenosis rate (at 12 months) as the primary endpoint. This study aims to evaluate the long-term non-restenosis rate (at 12 months) and safety of the saddle-cross technique for benign HJAS. We plan to enrol 50 participants.
ETHICS AND DISSEMINATION: This study has been approved by the Certified Review Board of the National Cancer Center, Japan (CRB3180009). The results will be reported at various conferences and published in international peer-reviewed journals.

Citation: Kawasaki Y, et al. Study protocol for a prospective, multicentre, phase II trial on endoscopic treatment using two fully covered self-expandable metallic stents for benign strictures after hepaticojejunostomy. Study protocol for a prospective, multicentre, phase II trial on endoscopic treatment using two fully covered self-expandable metallic stents for benign strictures after hepaticojejunostomy. 2023; 13:e078967. doi: 10.1136/bmjopen-2023-078967

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38072497/
