PMID: 38072492
Title: Rationale and design of a comparison of angiography-derived fractional flow reserve-guided and intravascular ultrasound-guided intervention strategy for clinical outcomes in patients with coronary artery disease: a randomised controlled trial (FLAVOUR II).

Abstract: INTRODUCTION: Percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) guided by coronary angiography-derived fractional flow reserve (FFR) or intravascular ultrasound (IVUS) has shown improved clinical outcomes compared with angiography-only-guided PCI. In patients with intermediate stenoses, FFR resulted in fewer coronary interventions and was non-inferior to IVUS with respect to clinical outcomes. However, whether this finding can be applied to angiography-derived FFR in significant coronary artery disease (CAD) remains unclear.
METHOD AND ANALYSIS: The comparison of angiography-derived FFR-guided and IVUS-guided intervention strategies for clinical outcomes in patients with coronary artery disease (FLAVOUR II) trial is a multicentre, prospective, randomised controlled trial. A total of 1872 patients with angiographically significant CAD (stenoses of at least 50% as estimated visually through angiography) in a major epicardial coronary artery will be randomised 1:1 to receive either angiography-derived FFR-guided or IVUS-guided PCI. Patients will be treated with second-generation drug-eluting stent according to the predefined criteria for revascularisation: angiography-derived FFR≤0.8 and minimal lumen area (MLA)≤3 mm2 or 3 mm2&lt;MLA≤4 mm2 and plaque burden&gt;70%. The primary endpoint is a composite of all-cause death, myocardial infarction and revascularisation at 12 months after randomisation. We will test the non-inferiority of the angiography-derived FFR-guided strategy compared with the IVUS-guided decision for PCI and the stent optimisation strategy.The FLAVOUR II trial will provide new insights into optimal evaluation and treatment strategies for patients with CAD.
ETHICS AND DISSEMINATION: FLAVOUR II was approved by the institutional review board at each participating site (The Second Affiliated Hospital of Zhejiang University School of Medicine Approval No: 2020LSYD410) and will be conducted in line with the Declaration of Helsinki. Informed consent would be obtained from each patient before their participation. The study results will be submitted to a scientific journal.
TRIAL REGISTRATION NUMBER: NCT04397211.

Citation: Zhang J, et al. Rationale and design of a comparison of angiography-derived fractional flow reserve-guided and intravascular ultrasound-guided intervention strategy for clinical outcomes in patients with coronary artery disease: a randomised controlled trial (FLAVOUR II). Rationale and design of a comparison of angiography-derived fractional flow reserve-guided and intravascular ultrasound-guided intervention strategy for clinical outcomes in patients with coronary artery disease: a randomised controlled trial (FLAVOUR II). 2023; 13:e074349. doi: 10.1136/bmjopen-2023-074349

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38072492/
