PMID: 38070631
Title: Evaluation of the effectiveness and safety of photodynamic therapy in the treatment of precancerous diseases of the cervix (neoplasia) associated with the human papillomavirus: A systematic review.

Abstract: This study provides an overview of the effectiveness and safety of PDT for the treatment of HPV-associated precancerous cervical conditions and contains recent findings from relevant research studies. A comprehensive literature search of MEDLINE/PubMed, Cochrane Central Library, and Google Scholar was conducted, including analytic epidemiological studies, and 11 papers were included. The narrative synthesis approach was used to summarize the results of the included studies. Studies were critically appraised using The Joanna Briggs Institute (JBI) tool for assessing the risk of bias. The results of the study demonstrate that CRR for HPV remission ranges from 66.7 % to 92.73 %, whereas for CIN1 it fluctuates from 57.1 % to 83.3 %. The frequency of recurrence of the disease ranged from 3.3 % to 8.9 % during the follow-up period of up to 2 years. Adverse events were observed in 8 (66 %) studies and the most common were cervical stenosis, abdominal pain, vaginal pain, and focal edema. Five types of topical and intravenous applications along with lasers of various wavelengths and intensities were mostly used. However, all studies demonstrated relatively similar results. According to the results, PDT has demonstrated favorable outcomes, but no impressive effect on the treatment of CIN. It should be emphasized, that the effectiveness of PDT for the treatment of HPV-associated CIN may vary depending on some variables, including the kind of PDT agent used, the dosage, duration and frequency of PDT administration, the severity and location of the lesions, and the host immunological response.

Citation: Shanazarov N, et al. Evaluation of the effectiveness and safety of photodynamic therapy in the treatment of precancerous diseases of the cervix (neoplasia) associated with the human papillomavirus: A systematic review. Evaluation of the effectiveness and safety of photodynamic therapy in the treatment of precancerous diseases of the cervix (neoplasia) associated with the human papillomavirus: A systematic review. 2024; 45:103925. doi: 10.1016/j.pdpdt.2023.103925

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38070631/
