PMID: 38078347
Title: Outcomes of Treatment of Spinal Fractures with the SpineJack System.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: The use of "SpineJack" implants in patients with stable spinal fractures and without neurological deficits enables restoration of the shape of the fractured vertebra and significantly accelerates restoration of normal function. In unstable spinal fractures, additional posterior fixation is recommended. This is not recommended in patients with traumatic spinal stenosis. The aim of the study was to evaluate the surgical and functional outcomes of treatment of patients with the SpineJack implant.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: The objectives of this paper were accomplished on the basis of an evaluation of the outcomes of treatment of 39 patients operated on at the Orthopaedic Oncology Department in Brzozów and the Department of Orthopaedics and Traumatology in the District Hospital in Stalowa Wola in the years 2020-2021. 71% of patients were men; the mean age of women was 54 years and the mean age of men was 41 years. A total of 30 patients suffered traumatic fractures, while 9 patients suffered non-traumatic (pathological) fractures. Fractures were most often located in the lower parts of the thoracic and upper lumbar spine. Patient radiographs taken on the day before, the first day after and 3 months following the surgery were evaluated to assess the correction of vertebral wedging and cement leakage. Functional status was assessed using ODI, the quality of life was assessed with the EQ-VAS and the severity of pain was measured with a VAS.
RESULTS: Pain intensity, measured with a VAS scale after the surgery, significantly decreased from the mean preoperative 6.9 to 2.4 three months post-op. The mean functional status of patients (ODI) before surgery was 74.4, compared to 14.8 at 3 months post-op. Mean Quality of life (EQ-VAS) was 56.4 before the surgery and 72.4 at 3 months post-op. The vertebral wedge angle decreased after surgical treatment, from a mean value of 15.8 degrees before surgery to 8.8 degrees after surgical treatment. At three months following the surgery, the mean loss of correction was 2.2 degrees and occurred in 4 patients. The most frequent complication was cement leakage into the disc and into the spinal canal, occurring in 4 and 2 patients, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: 1. The use of "SpineJack" implants in the treatment of stable vertebral fractures enables the restoration of the shape and reduction of the vertebral wedge angle. 2. The quality of life of patients after vertebral fracture treatment with "SpineJack" implants assessed using the EQ-VAS improved significantly. The severity of pain assessed on a VAS scale decreased significantly and the patients' functional status improved according to the ODI. 3.Complications observed during treatment with "SpineJack" implants include fractures of the vertebral endplate and cement leakage, mostly asymptomatic.

Citation: Sowa D, et al. Outcomes of Treatment of Spinal Fractures with the SpineJack System. Outcomes of Treatment of Spinal Fractures with the SpineJack System. 2023; 25:1-8. doi: 10.5604/01.3001.0053.4025

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38078347/
