PMID: 38072363
Title: Degenerated Transcatheter Aortic Valve Replacement: Investigation and Management Options.

Abstract: With the expansion of transcatheter aortic valve replacement (TAVR) to younger and lower-surgical-risk patients, many younger and less comorbid patients will be treated with TAVR and are expected to have a life expectancy that will exceed the durability of their transcatheter heart valve. Consequently, the number of patients requiring reintervention will undoubtedly increase in the near future. Redo-TAVR and TAVR explantation followed by surgical aortic valve replacement are the different therapeutic options in the event of bioprosthetic valve failure and the need for reintervention. Patients often anticipate being able to benefit from a redo-TAVR in the event of bioprosthetic valve failure after TAVR, despite the lack of long-term data and the risk of unfavourable anatomy. Our understanding of the feasibility of redo-TAVR is constantly improving thanks to bench test studies and growing worldwide experience. However, much remains unknown. In clinical practice, one of the heart team's objectives is to anticipate the need to reaccess the coronary arteries and implant a second or even a third valve when life expectancy may exceed the durability of the transcatheter heart valve. In this review, we address key definitions in the diagnosis of structural valve deterioration and bioprosthetic valve failure, as well as patient selection and procedural planning for redo-TAVR to reduce periprocedural risk, optimise hemodynamic performance, and maintain coronary access. We describe the bench testing and literature in the redo-TAVR and TAVR explantation fields.

Citation: Mauler-Wittwer S, et al. Degenerated Transcatheter Aortic Valve Replacement: Investigation and Management Options. Degenerated Transcatheter Aortic Valve Replacement: Investigation and Management Options. 2024; 40:300-312. doi: 10.1016/j.cjca.2023.12.002

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38072363/
