PMID: 38072418
Title: Safety and Feasibility of Laparoscopic Liver Resection with the Clamp-Crush Method Using the BiSect.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Various energy devices are available for resection of the liver parenchyma during laparoscopic liver resection (LLR). We have historically performed liver resections using the Cavitron Ultrasonic Surgical Aspirator (CUSA). More recently, we have used new bipolar forceps (BiSect; Erbe Elektromedizin GmbH, Tübingen, Germany) to perform clamp-crush dissection with good results. The BiSect is a reusable bipolar forceps with a laparoscopic dissecting forceps tip and both an incision mode and coagulation mode. We evaluated the perioperative clinical course of patients who underwent LLR using the clamp-crush method with the BiSect compared with the CUSA.
METHODS: This single-center case control study involved patients with liver metastasis from colorectal cancer who underwent LLR using either the BiSect or CUSA at our hospital from January 2019 to December 2022. We performed the LLR using CUSA from January 2019 to early October 2020. After introduction of the BiSect in late October 2020, we used BiSect for the LLR. Before surgery, the three-dimensional liver was constructed based on computed tomography images, and a preoperative simulation was performed. We evaluated the results of LLR using the BiSect versus the CUSA and assessed the short-term results of LLR.
RESULTS: During the study period, we performed partial liver resection using the BiSect in 26 patients and the CUSA in 16 patients. In the BiSect group, the median bleeding volume was 55 mL, the median operation time was 227 minutes, and the median postoperative length of hospital stay was 9 days. In the CUSA group, the median bleeding volume was 87 mL, the median operation time was 305 minutes, and the median postoperative length of hospital stay was 10 days. There were no statistically significant differences in the clinical course including bile leakage, bile duct stenosis, and post operative hospital stay between the two groups.
CONCLUSIONS: Compared with LLR using the CUSA, the clamp-crush method using the BiSect in LLR is a safe and useful liver transection technique. Further study should be conducted to clarify whether BiSect is safe and useful in LLR for patients with other tumor types and patients who undergo other procedures.

Citation: Yoshioka M, et al. Safety and Feasibility of Laparoscopic Liver Resection with the Clamp-Crush Method Using the BiSect. Safety and Feasibility of Laparoscopic Liver Resection with the Clamp-Crush Method Using the BiSect. 2024; 91:108-113. doi: 10.1272/jnms.JNMS.2024_91-112

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38072418/
