PMID: 38089128
Title: Strategies for managing left main trunk compression by left atrial appendage clip: a case report.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Closure of the left atrial appendage (LAA) using a clip in at-risk patients reduces stroke risk. The rate of LAA closure procedures is increasing worldwide; however, complications have been reported, with coronary compression being one possible lethal complication associated with the anatomical structures around the LAA.
CASE SUMMARY: A 75-year-old man presented with a diagnosis of a φ50 mm saccular thoracic aortic aneurysm. He had a history of chronic atrial fibrillation and functional tricuspid regurgitation. We performed total arch replacement with an open stent graft, tricuspid ring annuloplasty, left atrium Maze procedure, left atrial plication, and LAA closure using a LAA clip. The blood pressure of the patient dropped after closing the pericardium post-operatively. Coronary artery angiography (CAG) confirmed 90% stenosis at the left coronary main trunk (LMT) origin. Percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) was performed, and the haemodynamics settled.
DISCUSSION: The distance from the anterior wall of the LAA ostium to the LMT can be a risk for AtriClip-induced LMT compression. A different surgical strategy, such as internal sutures or surgical stapler for LAA closure, should be considered under such a condition. Selecting an appropriately sized AtriClip is essential while using the clip, placing it close to the orifice, and visually checking for compression after insertion to prevent LMT stenosis. When LMT compression by the clip was confirmed, levelling the endocardial adipose tissue with the LAA landing zone, cutting and removing the clip or coronary artery bypass grafting during operation, and PCI during CAG should be considered.

Citation: Mitsuishi A, et al. Strategies for managing left main trunk compression by left atrial appendage clip: a case report. Strategies for managing left main trunk compression by left atrial appendage clip: a case report. 2023; 7:ytad595. doi: 10.1093/ehjcr/ytad595

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38089128/
