PMID: 38084334
Title: Neuroforaminal Stenosis in the Lumbosacral Spine: A Scoping Review of Pathophysiology, Clinical Manifestations, Diagnostic Imaging, and Treatment.

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: To conduct the first scoping review of lumbosacral neuroforaminal stenosis with respect to the pathophysiology, symptomatic manifestations, diagnostic imaging, and treatment options.
METHODS: A scoping literature review was conducted in accordance with the recommendations set forth by the Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic Reviews and Meta-Analyses (PRISMA), with English language restrictions stipulated to include articles pertaining to lumbosacral neuroforaminal stenosis. Databases maintained by PubMed, National Library of Medicine, Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (Ovid), Scopus (Elsevier), Web of Science (Thomson Reuters), and Google Scholar were queried from their inception date through December 2022.
SUMMARY OF THE EVIDENCE: A total of 276 articles were reviewed and 29 articles were included within the study. Within these articles, the anatomic origins of neuroforaminal stenosis were reviewed in detail and the resulting clinical manifestations were discussed. Recent studies evaluating the efficacy of existing diagnostic imaging modalities were summarized, along with potential future methods to improve sensitivity for detecting this entity and measuring foraminal stenosis via novel imaging techniques. Based on the literature, the conservative management and surgical treatment of lumbosacral foraminal stenosis were discussed.
CONCLUSIONS: Lumbar neuroforaminal stenosis represents a significant source of radicular pain that is often compounded by delayed diagnosis and incomplete treatment. This article represents the first scoping review of lumbosacral neuroforaminal stenosis with focus on diagnosis, management, and treatment for associated radicular pain. The goal is to reduce the incidence of untreated or unrecognized neuroforaminal stenosis in the setting of a complex decompression and fusion, as well as to promote minimally invasive surgery to address radicular pain from neuroforaminal stenosis. Recent advances in diagnostic imaging and surgical techniques have the potential to improve the timeliness and durability of patients' treatment options. Future directions for the diagnostic imaging of foraminal stenosis include efforts aimed at developing the nascent field of computerized mapping to reliably quantify stenosis and its impact on the exiting nerve root and associated dorsal root ganglia.

Citation: Cavazos DR, et al. Neuroforaminal Stenosis in the Lumbosacral Spine: A Scoping Review of Pathophysiology, Clinical Manifestations, Diagnostic Imaging, and Treatment. Neuroforaminal Stenosis in the Lumbosacral Spine: A Scoping Review of Pathophysiology, Clinical Manifestations, Diagnostic Imaging, and Treatment. 2023; 8:87848. doi: 10.51894/001c.87848

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38084334/
