PMID: 38082726
Title: Link Between Cardiovascular and Cerebrovascular Controls in Patients Undergoing Surgical Aortic Valve Replacement.

Abstract: Although the autonomic influence on cardiovascular (CV) and cerebrovascular (CBV) regulations has been widely recognized, their relationship is poorly explored especially in pathological situations. This study investigates the correlation between CV and CBV markers in 73 patients (48 males, age 63.6±13.1 yrs) undergoing surgical aortic valve replacement (SAVR) evaluated before the intervention (PRE), within 1-week post-surgery (POST) and after a 3-month follow-up (POST3). Patients were acquired before and after an orthostatic challenge. Frequency domain analysis assessing transfer function gain (TFG), phase (Ph), and squared coherence (K2) between heart period and systolic arterial pressure was exploited to evaluate CV control. The same frequency domain functions were derived to assess CBV regulation from mean cerebral blood velocity and mean arterial pressure. A correlation analysis between indexes of CV and CBV controls was carried out. Results showed that CV control was impaired in PRE, worsened in POST, and recovered in POST3, while CBV markers were almost unchanged. A significant positive relationship between CV and CBV markers was observed, especially in POST and POST3, thus suggesting that the compensation of a baroreflex impairment with a more efficient CBV control and vice versa. The maintenance of this relationship between CV and CBV controls in patients undergoing SAVR could be fundamental to prevent risky situations.Clinical Relevance- After surgical aortic valve replacement an impaired baroreflex control could be compensated by a more efficient cerebral autoregulation.

Citation: Bari V, et al. Link Between Cardiovascular and Cerebrovascular Controls in Patients Undergoing Surgical Aortic Valve Replacement. Link Between Cardiovascular and Cerebrovascular Controls in Patients Undergoing Surgical Aortic Valve Replacement. 2023; 2023:1-4. doi: 10.1109/EMBC40787.2023.10340133

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38082726/
