PMID: 38085193
Title: Current Treatment Landscape for Dystrophic Epidermolysis Bullosa: From Surgical Management to Emerging Gene Therapies and Novel Skin Grafts.

Abstract: Epidermolysis bullosa is a genetic skin disorder characterized by blister formation from mechanical trauma. Dystrophic epidermolysis bullosa (DEB) is caused by mutations in the COL7A1 gene presenting as generalized blisters from birth, which can result in extensive scarring, alopecia, esophageal stenosis, corneal erosions, and nail dystrophy. This disease also often leads to pseudosyndactyly of the digits from the closure of webspaces, progressing to a "mitten hand" deformity. Although traditional and current treatment for DEB is largely supportive with wound care and iterative surgical pseudosyndactyly release, emerging gene therapies and novel skin grafts may offer promising treatment. Studies published in the early 2020s have used HSV-1 vectors expressing missing COL7A1 genes to restore collagen function. One of these treatments, B-VEC, is an HSV-1-based topical gene therapy designed to restore collagen 7 by delivering the COL7A1 gene, leveraging a differentiated HSV-1 vector platform that evades the patient's immune system response. Other work has been performed to retrovirally modify autologous keratinocytes, but limitations of this process include increased labor in harvesting and engineering autologous cells. This article provides an overview of DEB treatment with an emphasis on emerging gene therapies and novel skin grafts, especially as they pertain to pseudosyndactyly treatment.

Citation: Villavisanis DF, et al. Current Treatment Landscape for Dystrophic Epidermolysis Bullosa: From Surgical Management to Emerging Gene Therapies and Novel Skin Grafts. Current Treatment Landscape for Dystrophic Epidermolysis Bullosa: From Surgical Management to Emerging Gene Therapies and Novel Skin Grafts. 2024; 49:472-480. doi: 10.1016/j.jhsa.2023.10.022

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38085193/
