PMID: 38092356
Title: Vertebrobasilar Insufficiency Syndrome in Extension: Insights into Surgical Treatment.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Rotational vertebrobasilar artery syndrome, or bow hunter syndrome, is a rare yet well-documented pathology. This study presents a surgical approach to a latent manifestation of dynamic, extension-only, bilateral codominant vertebral artery compression in the V3 segment, associated with craniocervical instability and central canal stenosis.
METHODS: The clinical presentation involves the treatment of positional vertigo resulting from left and high-grade right vertebral artery stenosis during neck extension only. Diagnosis was confirmed through a formal angiogram under provocative maneuvers. Surgical intervention, detailed in this section, employed a multidisciplinary approach, including intraoperative angiograms to ensure patent vertebral arteries precraniocervical fusion.
RESULTS: The surgical treatment demonstrated success in addressing extension-only vertebrobasilar syndrome and associated complications of C1-2 pannus and craniocervical instability. Intraoperative angiograms confirmed vertebral artery patency pre- and postsurgical positioning, ensuring the effectiveness of the multidisciplinary approach.
CONCLUSIONS: This study concludes by highlighting the successful multidisciplinary surgical treatment of a patient with nonunion of a C1 Jefferson fracture, leading to extension-only vertebrobasilar syndrome complicated by C1-2 pannus and craniocervical instability. The importance of considering vertebral artery dynamic stenosis in cases of positional vertigo or transient neurological symptoms following an injury is emphasized. Surgical stabilization, particularly when conservative measures prove ineffective, is recommended, with careful attention to pre- and postsurgical positioning to verify vertebral artery patency and posterior vasculature integrity.

Citation: Eley N, et al. Vertebrobasilar Insufficiency Syndrome in Extension: Insights into Surgical Treatment. Vertebrobasilar Insufficiency Syndrome in Extension: Insights into Surgical Treatment. 2024; 183:71-75. doi: 10.1016/j.wneu.2023.12.032

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38092356/
