PMID: 38099073
Title: Case report: Recurrent cervical spinal stenosis masquerading as myalgic encephalomyelitis/chronic fatigue syndrome with orthostatic intolerance.

Abstract: INTRODUCTION: Myalgic encephalomyelitis/chronic fatigue syndrome (ME/CFS) is a complex, chronic, multi-system disorder that is characterized by a substantial impairment in the activities that were well tolerated before the illness. In an earlier report, we had described three adult women who met criteria for ME/CFS and orthostatic intolerance, and had congenital or acquired cervical spinal stenosis. All three experienced substantial global improvements in their ME/CFS and orthostatic intolerance symptoms after recognition and surgical treatment of the cervical stenosis. After a several year period of improvement, one of the individuals in that series experienced a return of ME/CFS and orthostatic intolerance symptoms.
MAIN SYMPTOMS AND CLINICAL FINDINGS: Radiologic investigation confirmed a recurrence of the ventral compression of the spinal cord due to a shift of the disc replacement implant at the involved cervical spinal level.
THERAPEUTIC INTERVENTION: Decompression of the spinal cord with removal of the implant and fusion at the original C5-C6 level was once again followed by a similar degree of improvement in function as had been observed after the first operation.
CONCLUSION: This recapitulation of the outcomes after surgical management of cervical stenosis provides further evidence in support of the hypothesis that cervical spinal stenosis can exacerbate pre-existing or cause new orthostatic intolerance and ME/CFS. Especially for those with refractory symptoms and neurological signs, surgical interventions may offer relief for selected patients with this complex condition.

Citation: Edwards CC, et al. Case report: Recurrent cervical spinal stenosis masquerading as myalgic encephalomyelitis/chronic fatigue syndrome with orthostatic intolerance. Case report: Recurrent cervical spinal stenosis masquerading as myalgic encephalomyelitis/chronic fatigue syndrome with orthostatic intolerance. 2023; 14:1284062. doi: 10.3389/fneur.2023.1284062

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38099073/
