PMID: 38093340
Title: The association between disability and physical performance, pain intensity, and pain-related anxiety in patients after lumbar decompression surgery: a cross-sectional study.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Most patients with lumbar spinal stenosis improve significantly within 6 months of lumbar decompression surgery, however, unfavorable long-term disability may persist in some patients. It was unclear which potential influencing factors were more likely to be associated with disability. This study aimed to assess the association between disability and physical performance, pain, and pain-related anxiety in patients after lumbar decompression surgery.
METHODS: Patients who underwent decompression for lumbar spinal stenosis were included. Participants completed the visual analog scale, Oswestry Disability Index, and Pain Anxiety Symptoms Scale-20 to collect pain intensity, disability, and pain-related anxiety information. For physical performance assessment, participants performed timed up and go (TUG), functional reach test (FRT), 6-min walking test, and modified Sorensen test, 6-12 months after lumbar decompression surgery. The associations were examined with bivariate and multivariable linear regression analyses.
RESULTS: A total of 80 patients were included. A significant association between disability and pain-related anxiety, the FRT, and the modified Sorensen test scores was confirmed in multivariable analyses. Both bivariate (r = - 0.75) and multivariable (β = 0.60, 95% CI, 0.24, 0.54; P = 0.00) analyses confirmed that pain-related anxiety was the strongest indicator of disability. The association between disability and pain intensity, TUG, and 6-min walking test scores was not confirmed.
CONCLUSION: Pain-related anxiety should be considered in the rehabilitation programs after lumbar decompression surgery. The evaluation of all aspects of physical performance following lumbar decompression surgery is also recommended.

Citation: Sahebalam M, et al. The association between disability and physical performance, pain intensity, and pain-related anxiety in patients after lumbar decompression surgery: a cross-sectional study. The association between disability and physical performance, pain intensity, and pain-related anxiety in patients after lumbar decompression surgery: a cross-sectional study. 2023; 18:961. doi: 10.1186/s13018-023-04462-5

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38093340/
