PMID: 38091212
Title: Effectiveness of transcranial direct current stimulation in chronic pain and neurogenic claudication related to lumbar spinal stenosis.

Abstract: OBJECTIVES: Transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS) is a promising non-invasive brain stimulation technique for treating chronic pain, yet its effectiveness in chronic lower extremity pain due to lumbar spinal stenosis (LSS) has not been studied. This research aimed to investigate the impact of tDCS on pain, walking capacity, functional status, and quality of life in LSS patients.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: In this prospective, randomized, double-blind, sham-controlled study, 32 LSS patients received either real or sham tDCS over the motor cortex contralateral to the patient's painful lower extremity for 10 consecutive weekdays (10 sessions). Evaluations were conducted at baseline, post-session, and 1-3 months later. The pain was evaluated by Visual Analog Scale (VAS), walking duration and distance by Treadmill Walking Test, functional status by Modified Oswestry Disability Questionnaire (MODQ) and quality of life by Short Form-36 (SF-36).
RESULTS: In-group comparisons, active tDCS showed sustained analgesic effects for 3-month post-treatment, distinct from sham. After the final session, active group exhibited significantly better asymptomatic walking distance and duration. Active stimulation led to notably lower MOLBDQ scores after 1 month. Significant improvements in SF-36 subscales were seen after 3 months, especially in pain, physical functioning, and general health. Positive tDCS effects on pain, claudication, and some quality of life aspects were evident at 3 months, while functional status improvements were mainly limited to 1 month.
CONCLUSION: tDCS shows potential as a safe, non-invasive technique for alleviating chronic LSS-related pain, enhancing mobility, functionality, and quality of life.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: Clinicaltrials.gov ID: NCT03958526.

Citation: Is EE, et al. Effectiveness of transcranial direct current stimulation in chronic pain and neurogenic claudication related to lumbar spinal stenosis. Effectiveness of transcranial direct current stimulation in chronic pain and neurogenic claudication related to lumbar spinal stenosis. 2024; 45:769-782. doi: 10.1007/s10072-023-07248-z

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38091212/
