PMID: 38093148
Title: Multiscale computational modeling of aortic valve calcification.

Abstract: Calcific aortic valve disease (CAVD) is a common cardiovascular disease that affects millions of people worldwide. The disease is characterized by the formation of calcium nodules on the aortic valve leaflets, which can lead to stenosis and heart failure if left untreated. The pathogenesis of CAVD is still not well understood, but involves several signaling pathways, including the transforming growth factor beta (TGF β ) pathway. In this study, we developed a multiscale computational model for TGF β -stimulated CAVD. The model framework comprises cellular behavior dynamics, subcellular signaling pathways, and tissue-level diffusion fields of pertinent chemical species, where information is shared among different scales. Processes such as endothelial to mesenchymal transition (EndMT), fibrosis, and calcification are incorporated. The results indicate that the majority of myofibroblasts and osteoblast-like cells ultimately die due to lack of nutrients as they become trapped in areas with higher levels of fibrosis or calcification, and they subsequently act as sources for calcium nodules, which contribute to a polydispersed nodule size distribution. Additionally, fibrosis and calcification processes occur more frequently in regions closer to the endothelial layer where the cell activity is higher. Our results provide insights into the mechanisms of CAVD and TGF β signaling and could aid in the development of novel therapeutic approaches for CAVD and other related diseases such as cancer. More broadly, this type of modeling framework can pave the way for unraveling the complexity of biological systems by incorporating several signaling pathways in subcellular models to simulate tissue remodeling in diseases involving cellular mechanobiology.

Citation: Azimi-Boulali J, et al. Multiscale computational modeling of aortic valve calcification. Multiscale computational modeling of aortic valve calcification. 2024; 23:581-599. doi: 10.1007/s10237-023-01793-4

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38093148/
