PMID: 38104238
Title: Cervical Spondylosis as a Potential Cause of Venous Hypertensive Myelopathy: A Case Report.

Abstract: BACKGROUND Venous hypertensive myelopathy (VHM) is generally closely related to spinal vascular malformations, but a small number of other causes of VHM have been reported. CASE REPORT This rare case report describes a 74-year-old man with a C3 to C7 disc herniation, posterior spondylolisthesis (degree I) with spinal stenosis, exhibiting comparatively swift decline in neurological function as well as abnormal expansion of the high-signal intensity region on T2-weighted magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), which progressed to the medulla oblongata. Whether spinal cord degeneration is caused by cervical spondylotic myelopathy remains uncertain. Lumbar puncture was not performed because of spinal stenosis. An acute inflammatory process was also considered and the patient received hormone therapy. However, the effect was not significant, and his symptoms worsened after his hormone levels decreased. Repeat cervical MRI demonstrated interval development of diffuse intramedullary increased T2 signal in the spinal cord, which gradually increased to the pons, with cord swelling and degeneration more apparent. His medical history, negative laboratory results, evoked potential examination results, and poor effects of hormone therapy indicated a low probability of spinal inflammatory disease. Posterior C3-C6 expansive open-door cervical laminoplasty with lateral mass screw insertion and C2 and C7 decompression surgeries were performed. The neurological symptoms and abnormal T2-weighted MRI signals significantly improved after the operation. CONCLUSIONS VHM can be caused by spondylotic cord compression, leading to spinal cord injury. Therefore, an accurate diagnosis and timely surgery are essential.

Citation: Li C, et al. Cervical Spondylosis as a Potential Cause of Venous Hypertensive Myelopathy: A Case Report. Cervical Spondylosis as a Potential Cause of Venous Hypertensive Myelopathy: A Case Report. 2023; 24:e942149. doi: 10.12659/AJCR.942149

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38104238/
