PMID: 38108858
Title: Changes in spinal sagittal balance after a new osteoporotic vertebral compression fracture.

Abstract: UNLABELLED: We conduct a longitudinal study to examine how new VCF alter spinal sagittal balance. New VCF increased SVA by an average of 2.8 cm. Sagittal balance deteriorates as a VCF develops in the lower lumbar spine. A new fracture below L1 increased the relative risk of a deterioration of sagittal balance 2.9-fold compared to one above Th12.
PURPOSE: Studies on the relationship between osteoporotic vertebral fractures and spinal sagittal balance have all been limited to cross-sectional studies. The aim of this study is to conduct a longitudinal study to examine how new vertebral compression fracture (VCF) alter spinal sagittal balance.
METHODS: Subjects were patients undergoing periodic examinations after treatment of a vertebral fracture or lumbar spinal canal stenosis. Forty patients who developed a new VCF were included in this study. Full-spine standing radiographs were compared before and after the fracture to examine changes in spinopelvic parameters and factors determining the changes in sagittal balance.
RESULTS: The mean age of the patients was 79.0 years. The mean interval between pre- and post-fracture radiographs was 22.7 months, and the mean time between development of a fracture and post-fracture radiographs was 4.6 months. After a fracture, sagittal vertical axis (SVA) increased an average of 2.78 cm and spino-sacral angle (SSA) decreased an average of 5.3°. Both ⊿SVA and ⊿SSA were not related to pre-fracture parameters. The wedge angle of the fractured vertebra was not related to changes in sagittal balance. ⊿SVA increased markedly in patients with a fracture of the lower lumbar vertebrae. receiver operating characteristic analysis revealed that the relative risk of a deterioration of sagittal balance was 2.9 times higher for a new fracture below L1 than for a fracture above Th12.
CONCLUSION: New VCF increased SVA by an average of 2.8 cm. Sagittal balance deteriorates as a new fracture develops in the lower lumbar spine. Early intervention in osteoporosis is vital for the elderly.

Citation: Yokoyama K, et al. Changes in spinal sagittal balance after a new osteoporotic vertebral compression fracture. Changes in spinal sagittal balance after a new osteoporotic vertebral compression fracture. 2024; 35:645-651. doi: 10.1007/s00198-023-06976-4

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38108858/
