PMID: 38103763
Title: Acute Hemodynamic Compromise After Transcatheter Aortic Valve Replacement Due to Dynamic Left Ventricle Obstruction: A Systematic Review.

Abstract: Acute hemodynamic compromise after transcatheter aortic valve replacement (TAVR) because of dynamic left ventricle (LV) obstruction (LVO), also known as suicide LV, is an infrequent but severe complication of TAVR that is poorly defined in previous studies. Understanding this complication is essential for its prompt diagnosis and optimal treatment. We conducted a systematic literature review using PubMed, Embase, Web of Science, and Medline databases for studies describing acute hemodynamic compromise after TAVR because of dynamic LVO or suicide LV. Each study was reviewed by 2 authors individually for eligibility, and a third author resolved disagreements. From a total of 506 studies, 25 publications were considered for the final analysis. The majority of patients with this condition were women demonstrating a hypertrophic septum, a small ventricle, and hyperdynamic contractility on pre-TAVR echocardiographic assessment. An intraventricular gradient before TAVR was found in half of the cases. Acute hemodynamic compromise after TAVR because of dynamic LVO manifested mainly as significant hypotension and occurred most often immediately after valve deployment. The LV outflow tract was the most common site of obstruction. Advanced therapies were required in nearly 65% of the cases. In conclusion, acute hemodynamic compromise after TAVR because of dynamic LVO occurred almost invariably in women. Echocardiography before TAVR may offer essential information to anticipate this complication. LV outflow tract obstruction appears to carry the highest risk of developing this phenomenon. Advanced therapies should be promptly considered as a bailout strategy in patients with hemodynamic collapse refractory to medical therapy.

Citation: Barzallo D, et al. Acute Hemodynamic Compromise After Transcatheter Aortic Valve Replacement Due to Dynamic Left Ventricle Obstruction: A Systematic Review. Acute Hemodynamic Compromise After Transcatheter Aortic Valve Replacement Due to Dynamic Left Ventricle Obstruction: A Systematic Review. 2024; 214:125-135. doi: 10.1016/j.amjcard.2023.12.005

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38103763/
