PMID: 38106238
Title: Relationships between the coronary fat attenuation index for patients with heart-related disease measured automatically on coronary computed tomography angiography and coronary adverse events and degree of coronary stenosis.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Pericoronary artery coronary tissue (PACT) is a type of epicardial fat that can reflect the state of the coronary artery (inflammation, etc.). However, it cannot be reasonably and efficiently utilized in routine computed tomography (CT) examination. The aim of this study was to use artificial intelligence (AI) software to analyze coronary computed tomography angiography (CCTA) and measure the coronary perivascular fat attenuation index (FAI) of patients. The relationship between FAI and the occurrence of coronary adverse events and the degree of coronary stenosis were further analyzed.
METHODS: This study involved patients who experienced CCTA in West China Hospital, Sichuan University, from January 2012 to December 2012. These patients were followed up to 2020 and classified according to the occurrence of coronary adverse events and the degree of stenosis of the lumen. For all patients, AI software was used to analyze the CCTA images of patients, and the FAI of 3 coronary arteries, the left anterior descending artery (LAD), the left circumflex artery (LCX), and the right coronary artery (RCA), was measured. Moreover, the relationship between FAI and patients with different degrees of coronary stenosis and adverse coronary events was determined.
RESULTS: Comparisons between any 2 groups showed that the differences in the FAI among the 4 groups for the LAD were significant (all P values <0.05). There were no significant differences between the group with less-than-moderate stenosis (Mb) without adverse events and the group with moderate-or-above stenosis (M) with no adverse events for the LCX (P>0.05). For the remaining groups, FAI values exhibited statistically significant differences (P<0.05). According to the degree of lumen stenosis, the patients were divided into groups according to LAD, LCX, and RCA and the sum of the 3 vessels. There were significant differences in coronary FAI among the groups with different degrees of lumen stenosis for the sum of the 3 vessels, the LAD, and the LCX (P<0.05).
CONCLUSIONS: FAI can reflect the state of the coronary artery, which is related to inflammation of the coronary lumen. Moreover, there is a relationship between FAI and the degree of stenosis in the coronary lumen: the narrower the coronary lumen is, the higher the FAI around the lumen.

Citation: Zhang WZ, et al. Relationships between the coronary fat attenuation index for patients with heart-related disease measured automatically on coronary computed tomography angiography and coronary adverse events and degree of coronary stenosis. Relationships between the coronary fat attenuation index for patients with heart-related disease measured automatically on coronary computed tomography angiography and coronary adverse events and degree of coronary stenosis. 2023; 13:8218-8229. doi: 10.21037/qims-23-326

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38106238/
