PMID: 38105436
Title: Effectiveness of the preventive administration of vasoactive amines in counterbalancing significant patient blood pressure drops following nimodipine administration during mechanical thrombectomy procedures.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Focal vasospasm (FV) of the occluded vessel can occur during the endovascular treatment of acute ischemic stroke (AIS). Nimodipine is commonly used to treat vasospasm and can play a role in distinguishing it from artery narrowing due to iatrogenic dissection or residual clot. However, nimodipine administration can result in arterial hypotension and subsequent enlargement of the ischemic core.
OBJECTIVE: To assess the efficacy of preventive and continuous vasoactive amine infusion to counterbalance nimodipine-induced hypotension.
METHODS: We reviewed data from a prospective registry of patients treated for AIS between January 2019 and January 2022 who were administered nimodipine. All patients were equipped with an arterial cannula for invasive blood pressure measurement and given vasoactive amines preemptively before general anesthesia and throughout the procedure. Data obtained from invasive monitoring of mean arterial blood pressure (MABP) in a time-lapse of 25 min before and after nimodipine administration were analyzed.
RESULTS: MABP significantly decreased after nimodipine administration but remained within the recommended range (81.79 ± 0.49 mmHg). Nimodipine was effective in reducing FV caused by stent retriever passage in 76.3% of cases. Furthermore, it proved valuable in diagnosing iatrogenic dissection (9.2%), residual clot (10.5%), or intracranial stenosis (4%).
CONCLUSIONS: Infusion of vasoactive amines effectively counteracted the intraarterial nimodipine effect, thus avoiding frank arterial hypotension during endovascular treatment. Nimodipine has been useful in differentiating the diagnosis of FV resulting from mechanical thrombectomy and other potential causes, such as iatrogenic dissection or residual clot.

Citation: Bernava G, et al. Effectiveness of the preventive administration of vasoactive amines in counterbalancing significant patient blood pressure drops following nimodipine administration during mechanical thrombectomy procedures. Effectiveness of the preventive administration of vasoactive amines in counterbalancing significant patient blood pressure drops following nimodipine administration during mechanical thrombectomy procedures. 2023; (unknown volume):15910199231221510. doi: 10.1177/15910199231221510

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38105436/
