PMID: 38102599
Title: Applications of indocyanine greenenhanced fluorescence in the laparoscopic treatment of colonic stricture after necrotizing enterocolitis.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: The status of anastomotic blood perfusion is associated with the occurrence of anastomotic leakage after intestinal anastomosis. Fluorescence angiography (FA) with indocyanine green (ICG) can objectively assess intestinal blood perfusion. This study aims to investigate whether anastomotic perfusion assessment with ICG influences surgical decision-making during laparoscopic intestinal resection and primary anastomosis for colonic stricture after necrotizing enterocolitis.
METHODS: Patients who underwent laparoscopic intestinal resection and primary anastomosis between January 2022 and December 2022 were retrospectively analyzed. Before intestinal anastomosis, the ICG fluorescence technology was used to evaluate the blood perfusion of intestinal tubes on both sides of the anastomosis. After the completion of primary anastomosis, the anastomotic blood perfusion was assessed again.
RESULTS: Of the 13 cases, laparoscopy was used to determine the extent of the diseased bowel to be excised, and the normal bowel was preserved for anastomosis. The anastomosis was established under the guidance of ICG fluorescence technology, and FA was performed after anastomosis to confirm good blood flow in the proximal bowel. The anastomotic intestinal tube was changed in one case because FA showed a difference between the normal range of intestinal blood flow and the macroscopic prediction. There was no evidence of ICG allergy, anastomotic leakage, anastomotic stricture, or other complications. The median follow-up was 6 months, and all patients recovered well.
CONCLUSIONS: The ICG fluorescence technology is helpful in precisely and efficiently determining the anastomotic intestinal blood flow during stricture resection and in avoiding anastomotic leakage caused by poor anastomotic intestinal blood flow to some extent, with satisfactory short-term efficacy.

Citation: Die X, et al. Applications of indocyanine greenenhanced fluorescence in the laparoscopic treatment of colonic stricture after necrotizing enterocolitis. Applications of indocyanine greenenhanced fluorescence in the laparoscopic treatment of colonic stricture after necrotizing enterocolitis. 2023; 23:635. doi: 10.1186/s12887-023-04458-4

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38102599/
