PMID: 38107378
Title: A Predictive Model of New-Onset Atrial Fibrillation After Percutaneous Coronary Intervention in Acute Myocardial Infarction Based on the Lymphocyte to C-Reactive Protein Ratio.

Abstract: PURPOSE: Lymphocyte to C-reactive protein ratio (LCR) is a recognized systemic inflammatory marker and novel prognostic indicator for several cancers. This study investigated the relationship between preoperative LCR and new-onset atrial fibrillation (NOAF) in patients with acute myocardial infarction (AMI) after percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI).
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Patients with AMI (n=662) with no history of atrial fibrillation (AF) were enrolled and classified into NOAF and non-NOAF groups based on the occurrence of postoperative NOAF during hospitalization. Logistic regression models were used to analyze NOAF risk factors and to assess the association between preoperative LCR and NOAF incidence. We constructed a new nomogram from the selected NOAF risk factors, and tested its predictive performance, degree of calibration, and clinical utility using receiver operating characteristic and calibration curves, decision curve analysis, and clinical impact curves.
RESULTS: Overall, 84 (12.7%) patients developed NOAF during hospitalization. The LCR was significantly lower in the NOAF group. Preoperative LCR accurately predicted NOAF after AMI and was correlated with increased NOAF risk. Age, body mass index, diabetes, serum albumin levels, uric acid levels, left atrium (LA) diameter, left ventricular ejection fraction, left circumflex artery stenosis > 50%, and Killip class II status were independent predictors of NOAF after AMI. In addition, a new nomogram combined with LCR was constructed to stratify the risk of NOAF in patients with AMI. The performance of the new nomogram was satisfactory, as shown by the receiver operating characteristic curve, calibration curve, decision curve analysis and clinical impact curve.
CONCLUSION: Preoperative LCR was an independent predictor of NOAF in patients with AMI after PCI. The novel nomogram combined with LCR could rapidly and individually identify and treat patients at a high risk of NOAF.

Citation: Gao Z, et al. A Predictive Model of New-Onset Atrial Fibrillation After Percutaneous Coronary Intervention in Acute Myocardial Infarction Based on the Lymphocyte to C-Reactive Protein Ratio. A Predictive Model of New-Onset Atrial Fibrillation After Percutaneous Coronary Intervention in Acute Myocardial Infarction Based on the Lymphocyte to C-Reactive Protein Ratio. 2023; 16:6123-6137. doi: 10.2147/JIR.S443319

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38107378/
