PMID: 38108229
Title: The differences between patients with nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) and those without NAFLD, as well as predictors of functional coronary artery ischemia in patients with NAFLD.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is a chronic liver disease associated with metabolic syndrome. It is the most common cause of cryptogenic cirrhosis. The disease is also involved in the occurrence and development of type 2 diabetes and atherosclerosis and can directly affect the outcome of patients with coronary heart disease. Therefore, the focus of treatment of nonalcoholic fatty liver disease has also begun to focus on the treatment of risk factors for atherosclerotic heart disease. In this study, we investigated the difference between patients with coronary artery stenosis combined with NAFLD and those without NAFLD and evaluated the predictive factors and value of functional coronary artery ischemia in patients with NAFLD.
HYPOTHESIS: Many clinical factors (such as age, BMI, hyperglycemia) and imaging parameters (such as CACS grade) in the NAFLD group were different from those in the non-NAFLD group. The predictive model combined with multiple influencing factors has a good value in predicting coronary artery ischemia in patients with NAFLD.
METHODS: We collected the clinical and imaging data of patients who underwent coronary computed tomography angiography and coronary artery calcification score (CACS) scans between January and June 2023. A total of 392 patients were included and divided into the NAFLD group and the non-NAFLD group. Based on CT fractional flow reserve (CT-FFR), patients with NAFLD were divided into CT-FFR ≤ 0.08 group and CT-FFR > 0.08 group.
RESULTS: Significant differences were observed between the non-NAFLD and NAFLD groups in terms of age, body mass index, hyperglycemia, hyperlipidemia, triglyceride, high-density lipoprotein, coronary artery disease-reporting and data system (CAD-RADS) classification, CACS classification, number of diseased coronary arteries, and CT-FFR ≤ 0.80 ratio (p < .05). The CAD-RADS and CACS classifications can independently predict functional coronary artery ischemia in NAFLD patients. The combined use of CAD-RADS and CACS classifications resulted in an area under the curve of 0.819 (95% confidence interval: 0.761-0.876) for predicting coronary artery ischemia in NAFLD patients, which was higher than the individual classification methods (CAD-RADS: 0.762, CACS: 0.742) (p = .000).
CONCLUSIONS: There are differences between patients with coronary artery stenosis and NAFLD and those without NAFLD. The CAD-RADS classification and CACS classification can economically and efficiently predict functional coronary artery ischemia in patients with NAFLD, which has crucial value in clinical diagnosis and treatment.

Citation: Li WJ and Xu HW. The differences between patients with nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) and those without NAFLD, as well as predictors of functional coronary artery ischemia in patients with NAFLD. The differences between patients with nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) and those without NAFLD, as well as predictors of functional coronary artery ischemia in patients with NAFLD. 2024; 47:e24205. doi: 10.1002/clc.24205

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38108229/
