PMID: 38116938
Title: Laparoscopic Eradication of Deep Endometriosis With Segmental Rectosigmoid Resection and Bilateral Posterior Parametrectomy With Nerve-sparing "Touchless" Technique According to the "Negrar Method".

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: To demonstrate nerve-sparing laparoscopic eradication of deep endometriosis with rectal and parametrial resection based on the Negrar method [1] using the "touchless" technique.
DESIGN: Stepwise video case demonstration with narration.
SETTING: Tertiary level endometriosis unit. The patient was a 28 year-old nulliparous patient referred for surgery with persistent dysmenorrhea, dyspareunia, and dyschezia despite medical management (progestin-containing hormonal pills). Preoperative ultrasound demonstrated bilateral endometriomas, diffuse adenomyosis, and 35 mm × 17 mm stenosing rectal nodule. Histopathology confirmed 60% stenosis of the rectum secondary to the endometriotic nodule up to submucosal layer with margins free of endometriosis. She was discharged 7 days postoperatively with no postoperative complications.
INTERVENTIONS: Laparoscopic nerve-sparing eradication of deep endometriosis with segmental rectosigmoid resection and bilateral posterior parametrectomy [2] according to the "Negrar method" with nerve-sparing "touchless" technique, sliding the nerve bundles laterocaudally, and keeping intact the visceral pelvic fascia covering them, thus without direct contact with the nerves.
CONCLUSION: In our experience, based on more than 3000 of these procedures [3], this nerve-sparing procedure, based on identifying the nerves and their laterocaudad dissection, without a direct impact on their fibers but just on their fascial envelopes has proven successful in lowering the rates of postoperative dysfunctions and neural impairment related to neuro-apraxia and edema that occurs by directly affecting them [1]. Although there are no robust data to demonstrate benefit of "touchless" nerve-sparing dissection techniques, neuro-apraxia from compression of neural fibers that has been observed can be minimized [1,4,5].

Citation: Ceccaroni M, et al. Laparoscopic Eradication of Deep Endometriosis With Segmental Rectosigmoid Resection and Bilateral Posterior Parametrectomy With Nerve-sparing "Touchless" Technique According to the "Negrar Method". Laparoscopic Eradication of Deep Endometriosis With Segmental Rectosigmoid Resection and Bilateral Posterior Parametrectomy With Nerve-sparing "Touchless" Technique According to the "Negrar Method". 2024; 31:19-20. doi: 10.1016/j.jmig.2023.10.021

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38116938/
