PMID: 38115593
Title: Effect and Safety of Combining Pharmacopuncture Therapy and Acupotomy in the Treatment of Patients with Degenerative Lumbar Spinal Stenosis: a Study Protocol for a Pragmatic, Assessor-Blinded, Randomized, Controlled Trial.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: : Pharmacopuncture therapy and acupotomy are commonly used in combination for Conventional Korean Medicine Treatments (CKMT) for the treatment of patients with lumbar spinal stenosis (LSS). The aim of this study is to evaluate the effect and safety of combining pharmacopuncture therapy and acupotomy in the treatment of LSS.
METHODS: : This study is designed as a pragmatic, assessor-blinded, randomized controlled trial with two parallel arms in a 1:1 ratio. A total of 104 participants diagnosed with LSS will be randomly assigned to an experimental group (pharmacopuncture therapy and acupotomy in addition to CKMT) or a control group (only CKMT). Patients in both groups will receive treatment two times weekly for 6 weeks. The primary outcome will be the mean change on the 100-mm visual analog scale (VAS) from the baseline to the end of the treatment (week 6). The secondary outcomes will include the mean change in the 100-mm VAS from baseline to week 10 and week 14, respectively. Proportion of patients who achieve the clinically important difference, Zurich Claudication Questionnaire, Roland-Morris disability questionnaire, self-reported maxium walking distance, EuroQol 5-dimension 5-level, and Patients' Global Impression of Change will also be assessed. Adverse events will be assessed at each visit. The outcomes will be measured for a total of 14 weeks, including a treatment period of 6 weeks and follow-up of 4, 8 weeks.
DISCUSSION: : The results of this trial will confirm the effect and safety of combining pharmacopuncture therapy and acupotomy in the treatment of patients with LSS.

Citation: Kim J, et al. Effect and Safety of Combining Pharmacopuncture Therapy and Acupotomy in the Treatment of Patients with Degenerative Lumbar Spinal Stenosis: a Study Protocol for a Pragmatic, Assessor-Blinded, Randomized, Controlled Trial. Effect and Safety of Combining Pharmacopuncture Therapy and Acupotomy in the Treatment of Patients with Degenerative Lumbar Spinal Stenosis: a Study Protocol for a Pragmatic, Assessor-Blinded, Randomized, Controlled Trial. 2023; 16:268-278. doi: 10.51507/j.jams.2023.16.6.268

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38115593/
