PMID: 38114310
Title: [Analysis of cases of laryngeal airway diseases in infants].

Abstract: Objective:To analyze the clinical data of laryngeal airway diseases in infants and provide reference for the standardized diagnosis and treatment of the disease. Methods:From June 2022 to August 2023, analyze the clinical data of 4 cases of children with laryngeal airway diseases recently admitted to Department of Otolaryngology, Fuzhou Children's Hospital of Fujian Province, and summarize the experience and lessons of diagnosis and treatment by consulting relevant literature. Results:Three cases had symptoms such as laryngeal wheezing, dyspnea, backward growth and development, etc. After electronic laryngoscopy, the first case was diagnosed with laryngeal softening （severe, type Ⅱ）, and the angular incision was performed. While cases 2, 3 diagnosed with case 2 and 3 were diagnosed with laryngeal cyst and underwent laryngeal cyst resection. All three cases underwent low-temperature plasma surgery under visual laryngoscope, and the symptoms were relieved after operation. Case 4 was laryngeal wheezing and dyspnea after extubation under general anesthesia. The electronic laryngoscopy showeded early stage of globetic stenosis, and endoscopic pseudomembrane clamping was performed, and the postoperative symptoms were relieved. Conclusion:Infants and young children with laryngeal airway diseases should pay attention to the early symptoms and be diagnosed by electronic laryngoscopy as soon as possible. With good curative effect and few complications, low-temperature plasma surgery under visual laryngoscope is recommended. The formation of pseudomembrane under the gluteal caused by tracheal intubation causes rapid onset and rapid development. The pseudomembrane extraction by clamping is convenient and fast, with good curative effect.

Citation: Liao Q, et al. [Analysis of cases of laryngeal airway diseases in infants]. [Analysis of cases of laryngeal airway diseases in infants]. 2023; 37:953-957. doi: 10.13201/j.issn.2096-7993.2023.12.004

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38114310/
