PMID: 38114853
Title: Cerebral hemodynamics and cognitive functions in the acute and subacute stage of mild ischemic stroke: a longitudinal pilot study.

Abstract: The association between cerebral hemodynamics and cognitive impairment has been reported in neurodegenerative and cerebrovascular disorders (CVD). However, it is still unclear whether changes occur in the acute phase of CVD. Here we investigated cognitive and hemodynamic parameters and their association in patients with CVD during the acute and subacute phases. Seventy-three patients with mild stroke, not undergoing endovascular treatment, were recruited. All subjects were devoid of intracranial or external carotid stenosis, significant chronic cerebrovascular pathology, dementia or non-compensated cardiovascular diseases. Patients were evaluated within 7 days from symptoms onset (T1) and after 3 months (T2). Clinical and demographic data were collected. NIHSS, MoCA, FAB, and Word-Color Stroop test (WCST) were used to evaluate disease severity and cognitive functions. Basal hemodynamic parameters in the middle cerebral artery were measured with transcranial Doppler. Differences between T2 and T1, correlations between cognitive and hemodynamic variables at T1 and T2, as well as correlations between the T2-T1 variation in cognitive and hemodynamic parameters were assessed. At T1, cognitive performance of MoCA, FAB, and WCST was lower compared with T2; and pulsatility index, a parameter reflecting distal vascular resistance, was higher. However, no correlations between the changes in cognitive and hemodynamic variables were found; therefore, the two seems to be independent phenomena. In the acute phase, the linear association between cerebral blood flow and cognitive performances was lost, probably due to a differential effect of microenvironment changes and vascular-specific phenomena on cognition and cerebral hemodynamics. This relationship was partially restored in the subacute phase.

Citation: Sforza M, et al. Cerebral hemodynamics and cognitive functions in the acute and subacute stage of mild ischemic stroke: a longitudinal pilot study. Cerebral hemodynamics and cognitive functions in the acute and subacute stage of mild ischemic stroke: a longitudinal pilot study. 2024; 45:2097-2105. doi: 10.1007/s10072-023-07260-3

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38114853/
