PMID: 38115311
Title: Recurrent stroke shortly after mechanical thrombectomy secondary to carotid web: A case report.

Abstract: RATIONALE: Carotid web, a known source of thrombus for embolic stroke, presents a considerable risk of stroke recurrence. While case reports have demonstrated the safety and effectiveness of mechanical thrombectomy in treating carotid web-related stroke, the need for concurrent carotid artery stenting to prevent recurrent stroke immediately after thrombectomy remains unclear. This study aims to underscore the importance of immediate carotid artery stenting in preventing recurrent stroke following mechanical thrombectomy in patients with carotid web-related stroke.
PATIENT CONCERNS: A 43-year-old woman with acute onset of left limb weakness and slurred speech within 3 hours was admitted to the emergency department.
DIAGNOSES: Computed tomographic angiography confirmed the M1 segment occlusion of the right middle cerebral artery.
INTERVENTIONS: The patient received intravenous thrombolysis in the local hospital and mechanical thrombectomy in our stroke center.
OUTCOMES: Three days post-mechanical thrombectomy, there was a sudden exacerbation of her neurological deficit symptoms. A reexamination via computed tomographic angiography revealed a re-occlusion in M1 segment of the right middle cerebral artery, despite the implementation of stringent anticoagulation therapy for carotid web-related stroke.
LESSONS: Stroke patients with carotid web had a high risk of stroke recurrence and it was necessary to conduct carotid artery stenting to prevent stroke recurrence secondary to the carotid web immediately after mechanical thrombectomy.

Citation: Yang GM, et al. Recurrent stroke shortly after mechanical thrombectomy secondary to carotid web: A case report. Recurrent stroke shortly after mechanical thrombectomy secondary to carotid web: A case report. 2023; 102:e36561. doi: 10.1097/MD.0000000000036561

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38115311/
