PMID: 38111022
Title: Percutaneous Fully-endoscopic Anterior Transcorporeal Procedure for the Treatment of Isolated Ossification of the Posterior Longitudinal Ligament in the Cervical Spine: A Case Report.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: With the development of spinal endoscopic techniques, on the basis of our previous experience in treating various types of cervical disc herniation with this endoscopic technique, we took the lead in applying the percutaneous fully endoscopic anterior transcorporeal procedure to be utilized in the treatment of the isolated cervical ossification of the posterior longitudinal ligament (OPLL).
CASE PRESENTATION: A 66-year-old male patient who weighed 57 kg, with a height of 169 cm was admitted to the hospital on September 16, 2021 because of recurrent pain and numbness in the neck, shoulder, and right arm for 2 years, which as aggravated for the last 2 weeks. Two years ago, the patient developed neck and shoulder pain accompanied by right arm pain without obvious predisposing factors, and numbness in the first web space of the right hand. In the last 2 weeks, he had difficulty moving the right arm, but no pain or numbness in the contralateral arm. MRI and CT scans demonstrated that the ossified posterior longitudinal ligament of the cervical 5/6 vertebrae with spinal canal stenosis and seriously compressed the spinal cord patient was treated with a percutaneous fully endoscopic anterior transcorporeal procedure.
CONCLUSION: Our percutaneous fully endoscopic anterior transcorporeal procedure is a feasible, minimally invasive surgery for treating isolated ossification of the posterior longitudinal ligament in the cervical spine.

Citation: Li J, et al. Percutaneous Fully-endoscopic Anterior Transcorporeal Procedure for the Treatment of Isolated Ossification of the Posterior Longitudinal Ligament in the Cervical Spine: A Case Report. Percutaneous Fully-endoscopic Anterior Transcorporeal Procedure for the Treatment of Isolated Ossification of the Posterior Longitudinal Ligament in the Cervical Spine: A Case Report. 2024; 16:514-520. doi: 10.1111/os.13966

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38111022/
