PMID: 38124766
Title: Clinical predictive factors of coronary stenosis in patients with high‑risk valvular heart disease who received diagnostic coronary angiography prior to cardiac valve surgery.

Abstract: Valvular heart disease (VHD) may lead to morbidities and mortality due to heart failure or sudden death. Concomitant coronary artery disease (CAD) is a crucial condition that needs to be explored in patients with VHD prior to cardiac valve surgery as it may increase morbidity and mortality. Patient age >40 years and mitral regurgitation are key risk factors for CAD in patients with VHD. The present study aimed to identify clinical risk factors for coronary stenosis in patients with high-risk VHD. The retrospective cohort study recruited patients aged >40 years who received cardiac valve surgery and coronary angiogram prior to cardiac valve surgery. Clinical factors predictive of coronary stenosis were computed by logistic regression analysis. There were 533 patients; 114 patients (21.38%) had coronary stenosis. Four factors were positively associated with coronary stenosis including age, male sex, mitral regurgitation and hypertension, while two factors were negatively associated with coronary stenosis, namely estimated glomerular filtration rate and rheumatic heart disease. Hypertension had the highest adjusted odds ratio at 2.596, while rheumatic heart disease had the lowest adjusted odds ratio at 0.428. Patient age >55 years showed a sensitivity and specificity of coronary stenosis of 80.70 and 37.47%, respectively. Clinical factors predictive of coronary stenosis in patients with high-risk VHD were age >55 years, male sex, mitral regurgitation and hypertension, while a high estimated glomerular filtration rate and presence of rheumatic heart disease were protective factors.

Citation: Wara-Aswapati S, et al. Clinical predictive factors of coronary stenosis in patients with high‑risk valvular heart disease who received diagnostic coronary angiography prior to cardiac valve surgery. Clinical predictive factors of coronary stenosis in patients with high‑risk valvular heart disease who received diagnostic coronary angiography prior to cardiac valve surgery. 2024; 20:9. doi: 10.3892/br.2023.1697

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38124766/
