PMID: 38123880
Title: Effects of Twin-Block with an expanding device on the upper airway in growing children with skeletal class II malocclusion-a retrospective study based on the consistency of three-dimensional and two-dimensional data.

Abstract: OBJECTIVES: Skeletal class II malocclusion is one of the most common malocclusions. Among the functional appliances for skeletal class II malocclusion, the Twin-Block appliance with a maxillary expander is effective in repositioning the mandible forward. In this study, we focused our efforts on investigating the effects of Twin-Block appliances with maxillary expanders on the upper airway in growing children with skeletal class II malocclusion by tracing and measuring lateral cephalograms after evaluating the consistency of three-dimensional CBCT data and two-dimensional lateral cephalogram data.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: A total of 102 patients ranging from 9 to 15 years old (11.37 ± 2.80, male/female ratio = 1:1) with skeletal class II malocclusion were selected to evaluate the consistency of CBCT data and lateral cephalogram data. The strongly and moderately correlated segments were then selected to study the effects of Twin-Block with a maxillary expander on the upper airway in 66 growing children with skeletal class II malocclusion (11.31 ± 1.23 years old, male/female ratio = 1:1) by lateral cephalograms.
RESULTS: The results showed a strong significant correlation in the nasopharynx (r = 0.708) and moderate significant correlations in the overall upper airway (r = 0.641), palatopharynx (r = 0.553), and glossopharynx (r = 0.575) but a weak correlation in the hypopharynx (r = 0.323). The corresponding determination coefficient (R2) was also determined by scatter plot analysis. Moreover, compared with the pretreatment data (T1), the total area of the upper airway and the areas of the nasopharynx, palatopharynx, and glossopharynx after functional treatment (T2) increased statistically and significantly.
CONCLUSIONS: Lateral cephalograms can reflect the volume of the nasopharynx and oropharynx in skeletal class II children to a certain extent, while Twin-Block appliances with maxillary expanders can widen the volume of the nasopharynx and oropharynx significantly.
CLINICAL RELEVANCE: The lateral cephalogram is reliable for analyzing the nasopharynx, palatopharynx, and glossopharynx in orthodontic clinical practice. Twin-Block appliances with maxillary expanders have a positive effect on skeletal class II patients with airway stenosis.

Citation: Mao F, et al. Effects of Twin-Block with an expanding device on the upper airway in growing children with skeletal class II malocclusion-a retrospective study based on the consistency of three-dimensional and two-dimensional data. Effects of Twin-Block with an expanding device on the upper airway in growing children with skeletal class II malocclusion-a retrospective study based on the consistency of three-dimensional and two-dimensional data. 2023; 28:4. doi: 10.1007/s00784-023-05388-2

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38123880/
