PMID: 38129486
Title: Differences in characteristics between patients from Egypt and Germany presenting with lacunar stroke.

Abstract: Despite the enormous health burden of lacunar stroke, data from low- and middle-income countries on lacunar stroke characteristics and its comparison with that of high-income countries are scarce. Thus, we aimed to investigate and compare the variable characteristics and vascular status in patients from Egypt and Germany suffering lacunar stroke. Two cohorts of lacunar stroke patients from Ain Shams University Hospital, Egypt and Goethe University Hospital Frankfurt, Germany were retrospectively collected between January 2019 and December 2020 and analyzed for demographics, risk factors, mode of presentation, neuroimaging features, treatment protocols and outcomes. MRI showed a different distribution pattern of lacunar strokes between cohorts, detecting posterior circulation lacunar infarctions preponderantly in patients from Egypt and anterior circulation lacunar infarctions preponderantly in patients from Germany. Complementary MR/CT angiography revealed a significantly higher proportion of intracranial and combined intracranial and extracranial arterial stenosis in patients from Egypt than in patients from Germany, suggesting differences in pathological processes. Younger age, higher NIHSS on admission, and posterior circulation lacunar infarction were predictors of Egyptian origin, whereas hypertension was a predictor of German origin. Our results support the idea of clinical and neuroimaging phenotype variations in lacunar stroke, including different sources of lacunar stroke in patients of different populations and geographical regions. This implies that guidelines for management of lacunar stroke might be tailored to these differences accordingly.

Citation: Maged M, et al. Differences in characteristics between patients from Egypt and Germany presenting with lacunar stroke. Differences in characteristics between patients from Egypt and Germany presenting with lacunar stroke. 2023; 13:22925. doi: 10.1038/s41598-023-50269-z

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38129486/
