PMID: 38124096
Title: Classification and treatment strategy for Moyamoya disease-related aneurysms.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Moyamoya disease (MMD) is a cerebrovascular disorder characterized by progressive unilateral or bilateral stenosis of the distal internal carotid artery. As hemodynamic features in MMD patients alter, the comorbidity of intracranial aneurysm (IA) is sometimes observed clinically. We aim to investigate clinical characteristics and therapeutic strategies for the comorbidity of Moyamoya disease with intracranial aneurysms (MMD-IA).
METHODS: A total of 13 MMD-IA patients were recruited in this study and were manifested to be intracranial hemorrhage. We reviewed the surgical technique notes for all patients.
RESULTS: According to the locations of an aneurysm, MMD-IA could be divided into several categories: (1) MMD-IA at a circle of Willis-aneurysms usually located at the trunk of Willis circle; (2) MMD-IA at collateral anastomosis-aneurysms located at the distal end of collateral anastomosis; and (3) MMA-IA at basal ganglia region. In this report, aneurysms in 10 patients located at Willis circle, 2 at the pericallosal artery, and 1 at the basal ganglia region. Among them, endovascular embolism was performed among 5 patients. Aneurysm clipping was conducted among 7 patients. A patient with an aneurysm at the basal ganglia region just accepted revascularization treatment. All the treatments were successful. Follow-up studies, ranging from 6 to 24 months, demonstrated all patients received satisfactory curative effects.
CONCLUSION: Diverse clinical presentations could be observed among MMD-IA patients. Individualized neurosurgical treatments should be chosen according to the locations of the aneurysm.

Citation: Hu Y, et al. Classification and treatment strategy for Moyamoya disease-related aneurysms. Classification and treatment strategy for Moyamoya disease-related aneurysms. 2023; 9:37. doi: 10.1186/s41016-023-00352-1

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38124096/
