PMID: 38124359
Title: Results and Complications After Single-Stage Repair of Aortopulmonary Window and Interrupted Aortic Arch in a 32-Week Preterm and a Full-Term Neonate.

Abstract: BACKGROUND An aortopulmonary window (APW) is an uncommon congenital defect of the septation between the ascending aorta and pulmonary trunk. The combination of APW and interrupted aortic arch (IAA) is even rarer, with the hallmark characteristics of high peri-operative mortality and postoperative obstruction of the aortic arch, pulmonary artery, and left main bronchus. These complications often need re-interventions. CASE REPORT We present 2 cases with diagnoses of APW and IAA that were treated with single-stage repair. Case 1: A male 32-week premature newborn (weight 1789 g) had APW type I and IAA type A. He had severe postoperative aortic arch obstruction on postoperative day 1, and we re-intervened promptly. He was still asymptomatic after 6 years. Case 2: A male term neonate had APW type III and IAA type A. He had left vocal cord paralysis and left bronchial compression postoperatively. We applied prolonged noninvasive respiratory supports. The complications resolved without re-intervention on postoperative day 66. Progressive arch stenosis at anastomosis after operation required close follow-up with echocardiography. CONCLUSIONS These 2 reports highlight the feasibility of single-stage surgical repair while addressing 2 challenges: (1) Recurrent arch stenosis: Lower body weight and direct end-to-side anastomosis without patch augmentation could be risk factors for re-intervention. (2) Bronchial compression: Presentation of the second reported case implied that bronchial compression may not warrant immediate re-intervention unless there is complete obstruction, persistent atelectasis, or recurrent infection. Further studies on long-term outcomes of different surgical procedure would help us to clarify the proper way to avoid re-intervention.

Citation: Ten CW, et al. Results and Complications After Single-Stage Repair of Aortopulmonary Window and Interrupted Aortic Arch in a 32-Week Preterm and a Full-Term Neonate. Results and Complications After Single-Stage Repair of Aortopulmonary Window and Interrupted Aortic Arch in a 32-Week Preterm and a Full-Term Neonate. 2023; 24:e942193. doi: 10.12659/AJCR.942193

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38124359/
