PMID: 38128112
Title: Cardiac structure, function, and coronary anatomy 10 years after isolated contemporary adjuvant radiotherapy in breast cancer patients with low cardiovascular baseline risk.

Abstract: AIMS: The effects of isolated contemporary low-dose breast cancer (BC) radiotherapy (RT) on the heart remain poorly understood. This study aims to assess the long-term impacts of BC-RT on cardiac structure and function.
METHODS AND RESULTS: Seventy-six women (62 ± 7 years) without history of prior heart disease, who had undergone RT for either first left (n = 36) or right (n = 40) BC, without additional medical oncology therapy apart from hormonal treatment 11 ± 1 years earlier, underwent transthoracic echocardiography, cardiac magnetic resonance imaging (CMR), computed tomography coronary angiography (CTCA), NT-proBNP, and a 6-min walk test (6MWT). They were compared with 54 age-matched healthy female controls. By CTCA, 68% of BC patients exhibited no or very mild coronary disease, while only 11% had moderate stenosis (50-69%) and 3% had significant stenosis (>70%). Despite slightly reduced regional echocardiographic midventricular strains, BC patients exhibited similar global left and right ventricular volumes, ejection fractions, and global strains by echocardiography and CMR as controls. Mitral E/e' ratios were slightly higher, and mitral deceleration times were slightly lower, but NT-proBNP was similar to controls. Also, 6MWT was normal. None had late gadolinium enhancement, and extracellular volume fraction was similar in BC (28 ± 3 vs. 29 ± 3, P = 0.15) and controls. No differences were observed relative to dose or side of RT.
CONCLUSION: Aside from minor alterations of regional strains and diastolic parameters, women who received isolated RT for BC had low prevalence of coronary disease, normal global systolic function, NT-proBNP, and exercise capacity and showed no structural changes by CMR, refuting significant long-term cardiotoxicity in such low-risk patients.

Citation: Krug P, et al. Cardiac structure, function, and coronary anatomy 10 years after isolated contemporary adjuvant radiotherapy in breast cancer patients with low cardiovascular baseline risk. Cardiac structure, function, and coronary anatomy 10 years after isolated contemporary adjuvant radiotherapy in breast cancer patients with low cardiovascular baseline risk. 2024; 25:645-656. doi: 10.1093/ehjci/jead338

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38128112/
