PMID: 38135884
Title: Tetraparesis following thoracic spine surgery in a patient with Klippel-Feil syndrome and ABCB4 mutation: a case report.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Klippel-Feil syndrome is a rare condition described in 1912 by Maurice Klippel and André Feil. It is defined as a congenital cervical fusion of at least two vertebrae, associated with a classical triad of clinical signs: short neck, low posterior hairline, and limited range of movement. However, Klippel-Feil syndrome manifests with a vast spectrum of phenotypes, ranging from no symptoms to complete triad, with or without other associated malformations. Most commonly, CCF results from sporadic mutations, even though autosomal recessive, autosomal dominant, or even X-linked inheritance can be detected. The ATP-binding cassette subfamily B member 4 is only expressed in the liver and is involved in biliary phospholipid secretion. The clinical spectrum includes various hepatobiliary pathologies, including low phospholipid-associated cholelithiasis, and has never been associated with musculoskeletal anomalies.
CASE PRESENTATION: A 55-year-old male Caucasian patient presenting with low phospholipid-associated cholelithiasis syndrome with ATP-binding cassette subfamily B member 4 mutation and liver cirrhosis was referred to our clinic for a liver transplant. A period of 6 months before, the patient underwent a T7-T9 posterior fixation for a T8 osteoporotic fracture. Postoperatively, he was tetraparetic, whereas he was neurologically intact before the operation. At admission to our hospital, he was still tetraparetic and presented with clinical signs of cervical myelopathy. Moreover, he suffered a limitation of cervical range of motion in all directions, short neck, and low posterior hairline. Imaging showed multiple cervical and thoracic vertebral bodies fusion, as well as cervical spine stenosis. Based on the available data, we diagnosed a type 3 Klippel-Feil syndrome according to Samartzis' classification.
CONCLUSIONS: The heterogeneity of KFS and the various potential hereditary links that are known indicate that it is important to highlight all potential cases related to known genetic defects. At present, no association between ATP-binding cassette subfamily B member 4 mutation and congenital cervical fusions has been reported. The other important clinical focus of this case is the appearance of spontaneous tetraparesis after thoracic spine surgery. This mechanism remains unclear, but considering different spinal anatomy it might have been due to difficult intubation and patient's positioning during his previous operation.

Citation: Da Broi M, et al. Tetraparesis following thoracic spine surgery in a patient with Klippel-Feil syndrome and ABCB4 mutation: a case report. Tetraparesis following thoracic spine surgery in a patient with Klippel-Feil syndrome and ABCB4 mutation: a case report. 2023; 17:528. doi: 10.1186/s13256-023-04263-8

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38135884/
