PMID: 38130043
Title: Treatment Concept and Technical Considerations of Biportal Endoscopic Spine Surgery for Lumbar Spinal Stenosis.

Abstract: Decompression is a major component of surgical procedures for degenerative lumbar spinal stenosis (LSS). In addition to sufficient decompression to guarantee the relief of neurological pain, compensating surgical instability after wider laminectomy and foraminotomy and instrumentation with caging and fusion with grafting are performed to secure or restore the foraminal dimension and correct coronal/sagittal imbalance for longer survival of the adjacent segment. Endoscopic spinal surgery (ESS) has been developed under the flag of successful decompression while preserving structural integrity as much as possible with the help of magnification and illumination. ESS provides a technical possibility and feasibility for solving LSS by decompression alone. Recently, many endoscopic trials have been conducted to overcome conventional surgical treatment that requires wider dissection, escape inevitable complications from surgical damage, and compensate for the fusion technique. However, biportal ESS has some technical limitations, including clinical difficulties in accessibility for more moderate to severe stenosis and challenges for complicated conditions with segmental ventral slip, isthmic defect, stenosis combined with foraminal stenosis or foraminal disk rupture, or degenerative segmental scoliosis with disk height collapsing and endplate fatigue fracture. Because decompression alone is a skill for eliminating pathologies, there is no function of preserving degenerative structure or stopping the recurrence of disk degeneration or subsidence. This review of clinical reports investigated the possibility of biportal ESS for treating degenerative lumbar disorders by sufficient decompression and adequate elimination of various pathologies and decreasing technical complications. The results of this study may help develop better innovative spinal surgical techniques in the near future.

Citation: Park J, et al. Treatment Concept and Technical Considerations of Biportal Endoscopic Spine Surgery for Lumbar Spinal Stenosis. Treatment Concept and Technical Considerations of Biportal Endoscopic Spine Surgery for Lumbar Spinal Stenosis. 2024; 18:301-323. doi: 10.31616/asj.2023.0409

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38130043/
