PMID: 38130856
Title: Open transcatheter double valve-in-valve replacement for degenerated bioprostheses on the arrested heart.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Failing bioprosthesis is an emerging issue due to (i) a shift towards liberal bioprosthesis implantation instead of mechanical prosthesis and (ii) an ageing population. Management of high-risk patients with bioprosthesis degeneration remains challenging.
CASE SUMMARY: An 82-year-old patient with history of aortic and mitral valve replacement six years before presents with severe dyspnoea. Echocardiograpic assessment reveals (i) structural valve degeneration of the mitral prosthesis (severe stenosis and regurgitation) with concomitant major annular calcifications and (ii) structural valve degeneration of the aortic prosthesis with low-flow, low-gradient restenosis. Due to mitral annular calcifications, the risk of double valve re-replacement and the age of the patient conventional reoperation was deemed very high. The patient is evaluated for transapical double valve implantation. This option is rejected due to the high risk of left ventricular outflow obstruction. The patient is treated with an open transcatheter double valve-in-valve procedure at the following sequence: leaflet resection of the mitral bioprosthesis, mitral valve implantation and fixation under direct view, leaflet resection of the aortic bioprosthesis, and valve frame cracking and aortic valve implantation under direct view. Post-bypass echocardiography shows neither left ventricular outflow tract obstruction nor paravalvular leak or prosthesis dysfunction. The patient is extubated on the first post-operative day and transferred to normal care unit.
DISCUSSION: Open transcatheter double valve-in-valve replacement for degenerated bioprostheses on the arrested heart might be a valuable alternative to treat selected high-risk patients with bioprosthetic valve degeneration.

Citation: Gollmann-Tepeköylü C, et al. Open transcatheter double valve-in-valve replacement for degenerated bioprostheses on the arrested heart. Open transcatheter double valve-in-valve replacement for degenerated bioprostheses on the arrested heart. 2023; 7:ytad617. doi: 10.1093/ehjcr/ytad617

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38130856/
