PMID: 38137908
Title: Sibjotang Protects against Cardiac Hypertrophy In Vitro and In Vivo.

Abstract: Cardiac hypertrophy is developed by various diseases such as myocardial infarction, valve diseases, hypertension, and aortic stenosis. Sibjotang (, Shizaotang, SJT), a classic formula in Korean traditional medicine, has been shown to modulate the equilibrium of body fluids and blood pressure. This research study sought to explore the impact and underlying process of Sibjotang on cardiotoxicity induced by DOX in H9c2 cells. In vitro, H9c2 cells were induced by DOX (1 μM) in the presence or absence of SJT (1-5 μg/mL) and incubated for 24 h. In vivo, SJT was administrated to isoproterenol (ISO)-induced cardiac hypertrophy mice (n = 8) at 100 mg/kg/day concentrations. Immunofluorescence staining revealed that SJT mitigated the enlargement of H9c2 cells caused by DOX in a dose-dependent way. Using SJT as a pretreatment notably suppressed the rise in cardiac hypertrophic marker levels induced by DOX. SJT inhibited the DOX-induced ERK1/2 and p38 MAPK signaling pathways. In addition, SJT significantly decreased the expression of the hypertrophy-associated transcription factor GATA binding factor 4 (GATA 4) induced by DOX. SJT also decreased hypertrophy-associated calcineurin and NFAT protein levels. Pretreatment with SJT significantly attenuated DOX-induced apoptosis-associated proteins such as Bax, caspase-3, and caspase-9 without affecting cell viability. In addition, the results of the in vivo study indicated that SJT significantly reduced the left ventricle/body weight ratio level. Administration of SJT reduced the expression of hypertrophy markers, such as ANP and BNP. These results suggest that SJT attenuates cardiac hypertrophy and heart failure induced by DOX or ISO through the inhibition of the calcineurin/NFAT/GATA4 pathway. Therefore, SJT may be a potential treatment for the prevention and treatment of cardiac hypertrophy that leads to heart failure.

Citation: Son CO, et al. Sibjotang Protects against Cardiac Hypertrophy In Vitro and In Vivo. Sibjotang Protects against Cardiac Hypertrophy In Vitro and In Vivo. 2023; 13:(unknown pages). doi: 10.3390/life13122307

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38137908/
