PMID: 38130034
Title: Musculoskeletal co-morbidities in patients with transthyretin amyloid cardiomyopathy: a systematic review.

Abstract: The prevalence of transthyretin-associated amyloidosis cardiomyopathy (ATTR-CM) has grown because of newer non-invasive diagnosis tools. Detecting the presence of extra-cardiac ATTR manifestations such as musculoskeletal pathologies considered 'red flags', when there is minimal or non-cardiac clinical involvement is primordial to carry out an early diagnosis. The aim of this systematic review is to examine the prevalence of musculoskeletal, ATTR-deposition-related co-morbidities in patients already diagnosed with ATTR-CM, specifically carpal tunnel syndrome, ruptured biceps tendon, spinal stenosis, and trigger finger. We performed a systematic review using PRISMA guidelines. Inclusion criteria were all studies in English and Spanish language and participants had to be patients diagnosed with ATTR-CM, by any diagnostic method, with the musculoskeletal co-morbidities subject of this review. The quality of the studies was based on the Risk of Bias Tool. This systematic review included 22 studies for final analysis. Carpal tunnel syndrome is reported in 21 studies, brachial biceps tendon rupture is reported in three, and spinal stenosis in eight studies. No articles that accomplished all the inclusion criteria for trigger finger were found. Regarding to the quality of the studies, all of them were categorized as being of high and moderate quality. The frequent association between ATTR-CM and carpal tunnel syndrome, ruptured biceps tendon, and lumbar spinal is confirmed, and the onset of these co-morbidities usually precedes the diagnosis of by years. This association defines them as red flags that should be search proactively due to the current treatment possibilities and the severity of the presentation of cardiac amyloidosis.

Citation: Formiga F, et al. Musculoskeletal co-morbidities in patients with transthyretin amyloid cardiomyopathy: a systematic review. Musculoskeletal co-morbidities in patients with transthyretin amyloid cardiomyopathy: a systematic review. 2024; 11:662-671. doi: 10.1002/ehf2.14622

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38130034/
