PMID: 38130141
Title: Clinical and Angiographic Outcomes of Endovascular Treatment for Acute Intracranial Vertebral Artery Dissecting Aneurysms Using Double-Overlapping Stents : Low-Profile Visualized Intraluminal Support within Enterprise Stents.

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: The use of reconstructive treatment with a double-overlapping stents has proven to be effective and safe in the current treatment of intracranial vertebral artery dissecting aneurysms (VADAs). We employed a combination of overlapping stents, using low-profile visualized intraluminal support (LVIS) within the Enterprise stent. This combination was chosen to minimize the outward bulging of the inner LVIS by overlapping it with the Enterprise stent while maintaining flow diversion and stability. This study aimed to evaluate the clinical and angiographic outcomes following the use of double-overlapping stents with LVIS within the Enterprise stent for the treatment of VADAs.
METHODS: From March 2016 to January 2022, total 28 patients with unruptured VADAs were treated with the double-overlapping stent technique using LVIS within an Enterprise stent in our institute. The Enterprise stent was deployed first, followed by the LVIS stent. Patient clinical and angiographic characteristics, procedural complications, and follow-up outcomes were retrospectively reviewed.
RESULTS: All 28 patients (18 males and 10 females) were successfully treated with double-overlapping stent deployment. There were no procedural complications or new neurological deficits in any patient. Of the 28 patients, four VADAs had posterior inferior cerebellar artery involvement. Procedure-related parent artery occlusion did not occur during the angiographic follow-up conducted 6 to 12 months after the procedure. Out of 28 patients, 24 showed complete healing, three had focal residual stenosis or dilatation with residual sac and only one had a residual dissecting flap with aneurysm. All patients, including the four patients, did not require any additional procedures. The postoperative modified Rankin scale scores were 0-1 for all patients.
CONCLUSION: A double-overlapping stent, with a flow-diversion effect, is a safe and effective treatment for patients with VADAs. In particular, when using the LVIS stent within an Enterprise stent, it minimizes the bulging of the inner LVIS stent while maintaining flow diversion and stability. Therefore, both can be effectively utilized as overlapping stents.

Citation: Koo JH, et al. Clinical and Angiographic Outcomes of Endovascular Treatment for Acute Intracranial Vertebral Artery Dissecting Aneurysms Using Double-Overlapping Stents : Low-Profile Visualized Intraluminal Support within Enterprise Stents. Clinical and Angiographic Outcomes of Endovascular Treatment for Acute Intracranial Vertebral Artery Dissecting Aneurysms Using Double-Overlapping Stents : Low-Profile Visualized Intraluminal Support within Enterprise Stents. 2024; 67:531-540. doi: 10.3340/jkns.2023.0224

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38130141/
