PMID: 38130044
Title: Successful Pediatric Penile Replantation Following Amputation During Ritual Circumcision: A Case Report and Literature Review.

Abstract: BACKGROUND Circumcision is commonly performed in males, especially in Jewish and Muslim cultures, and is considered a safe surgical procedure with a low complication rate. Major complications, such as partial and total penile amputation, can occur, but those are rare complications. However, high replantation success rates have been reported and reviewed. CASE REPORT We describe the case of an 8-year-old boy who experienced total penile amputation during ritual circumcision performed by a layperson outside the hospital setting. Microsurgical penile replantation was performed after an ischemic period of 16 hours 43 minutes, with successful outcomes and without any major complications. In our technique, we repaired both dorsal and deep cavernosal vessels. At 1-year postoperative period, the results of two-point discrimination test were 4 mm, 7 mm, and 7 mm on the dorsal part, ventral part, and glans, respectively. After a follow-up period of 4 years, there were no late complications such as penile deformity, urethral fistula, urethral stenosis, absence of penile sensation, or erectile dysfunction. The results of two-point discrimination test were 3 mm, 5 mm, and 5 mm on the dorsal part, ventral part, and glans, respectively. The patient also experienced good penile sensation, morning erection, satisfaction with the cosmetic outcome, and a peak urine flow rate of 21 mL/s with a consistently strong void stream and a low postvoid residual urine volume of 20 mL. CONCLUSIONS Our experience suggests that a short ischemic time, prompt surgical correction, microscopic technique of replantation, and intensive postoperative care can result in good functional outcomes.

Citation: Tawaranurak N, et al. Successful Pediatric Penile Replantation Following Amputation During Ritual Circumcision: A Case Report and Literature Review. Successful Pediatric Penile Replantation Following Amputation During Ritual Circumcision: A Case Report and Literature Review. 2023; 24:e942448. doi: 10.12659/AJCR.942448

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38130044/
