PMID: 38137831
Title: Dietary Composition, Angiographic Coronary Disease, and Cardiovascular Outcomes in the WISE Study (Women's Ischemia Syndrome Evaluation).

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Studies relating diet to angiographic coronary artery disease (CAD) and subsequent major adverse cardiac events (MACE) in women are limited. Information on diet was collected in the Women's Ischemia Syndrome Evaluation (WISE), a prospective cohort study of symptomatic women referred for coronary angiography to evaluate suspected ischemic heart disease.
METHODS: A consecutive subgroup (n = 201 of 936) of enrolled women completed the modified Block food frequency questionnaire (FFQ). Data on outcomes were collected and adjudicated after 8-year follow-up. A set of logistic regression models were fitted for non-obstructive versus obstructive coronary stenosis (&lt;50% versus ≥50%). Cox proportional hazard regression models were fitted for outcomes, with each dietary composition variable adjusted for the degree of coronary stenosis.
RESULTS: At baseline, the subgroup cohort was 58 ± 12 years old with a body mass index (BMI) of 30 ± 7 kg/m2. An increased proportion of calories consumed from protein was associated with higher levels of baseline obstructive coronary stenosis. Those individuals who ate a higher amount of protein, carotene, and servings of vegetables and meat, however, were each associated with lower subsequent adverse outcomes, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: Among women undergoing coronary angiography for suspected CAD, a higher percentage of protein intake was associated with higher baseline stenosis severity; however, the amount of protein intake, vegetable, meat, and carotene intake, was conversely associated with subsequent lower adverse cardiovascular outcome risk.

Citation: Schwartz BH, et al. Dietary Composition, Angiographic Coronary Disease, and Cardiovascular Outcomes in the WISE Study (Women's Ischemia Syndrome Evaluation). Dietary Composition, Angiographic Coronary Disease, and Cardiovascular Outcomes in the WISE Study (Women's Ischemia Syndrome Evaluation). 2023; 12:(unknown pages). doi: 10.3390/jcm12247762

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38137831/
