PMID: 38130621
Title: Diffuse arterial atherosclerosis presenting with acute ischemic gastritis: A case report.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Ischemic gastritis is a clinically rare disease with high mortality that infrequently reported in the medical literature and under-recognized clinically and histopathologically. Early diagnosis and treatment can only be achieved through upper gastrointestinal endoscopy after symptoms appear.
CASE SUMMARY: A 68-year-old woman with a history of intracranial aneurysm developed dizziness, chest tightness and unconsciousness for 2 d. Computed tomography angiography showed diffuse coronary atherosclerosis, moderate to severe stenosis in the proximal end of the left anterior descending branch, multiple calcified plaques in the proximal end of the circumflex branch and right coronary artery, and mild to moderate stenosis. The patient also developed diffuse atherosclerosis in the splenic and mesenteric arteries, with mild lumen stenosis and atherosclerosis in the abdominal aorta and its branches. Endoscopy showed submucosal congestion and damage of the entire gastric mucosa, of which the fundus and body of the stomach were most seriously affected. The mucosa was swollen, with a deep purple color, surface erosion and dark red oozing blood. Pathological examination showed bleeding and necrosis of the gastric mucosa, with residual contours of the gastric glands, consistent with ischemic gastritis.
CONCLUSION: Ischemic gastritis is a rare disease that may be difficult to diagnose as its symptoms may be similar to those of other gastrointestinal diseases. Diagnosis is usually based on endoscopic and pathological examinations, which show insufficient blood supply to the gastric mucosa leading to mucosal damage and necrosis.

Citation: Wei RY, et al. Diffuse arterial atherosclerosis presenting with acute ischemic gastritis: A case report. Diffuse arterial atherosclerosis presenting with acute ischemic gastritis: A case report. 2023; 11:8357-8363. doi: 10.12998/wjcc.v11.i35.8357

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38130621/
