PMID: 38143589
Title: The dosage of thiopental as pharmacological cerebral protection during non-shunt carotid endarterectomy: A retrospective study.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Thiopental has been used as a pharmacological cerebral protection strategy during carotid endarterectomy surgeries. However, the optimal dosage required to induce burst suppression on the electroencephalogram (EEG) remains unknown. This retrospective study aimed to determine the optimal dosage of thiopental required to induce burst suppression during non-shunt carotid endarterectomy.
METHODS: The Neurological Institute of Thailand Review Board approved the study. Data were collected from 2009 to 2019 for all non-shunt carotid endarterectomy patients who received thiopental for pharmacological cerebral protection and had intraoperative EEG monitoring. Demographic information, carotid stenosis severity, intraoperative EEG parameters, thiopental dosage, carotid clamp time, intraoperative events, and patient outcomes were abstracted.
RESULTS: The study included 57 patients. Among them, 24 patients (42%) achieved EEG burst suppression pattern with a thiopental dosage of 26.3±10.1 mg/kg/hr. There were no significant differences in perioperative events between patients who achieved burst suppression and those who did not. After surgery, 33.3% of patients who achieved burst suppression were extubated and awakened. One patient in the non-burst suppression group experienced mild neurological deficits. No deaths occurred within one month postoperative.
CONCLUSIONS: The optimal dosage of thiopental required to achieve burst suppression on intraoperative EEG during non-shunt carotid endarterectomy was 26.3±10.1 mg/kg/hr.

Citation: Sookplung P, et al. The dosage of thiopental as pharmacological cerebral protection during non-shunt carotid endarterectomy: A retrospective study. The dosage of thiopental as pharmacological cerebral protection during non-shunt carotid endarterectomy: A retrospective study. 2023; 12:381. doi: 10.12688/f1000research.131838.3

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38143589/
