PMID: 38141738
Title: Aortic endarterectomy in patients with severe multivessel paravisceral and aortoiliac occlusive disease.

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: Aortic endarterectomy (AE), once a treatment of choice for aortoiliac occlusive disease, is now rarely performed in favor of endovascular procedures or open aortobifemoral bypass. However, in select patients with paravisceral or aortoiliac occlusive disease, AE remains a viable alternative for revascularization, either as a primary procedure or after prior interventions have failed. Here, we evaluated outcomes for an extended series of patients undergoing paravisceral or aortoiliac endarterectomy, demonstrating that these procedures can be an excellent alternative with acceptable morbidity and mortality in properly selected patients.
METHODS: A single institution retrospective review of 20 patients who underwent AE from 2017 to 2023 was performed.
RESULTS: Five patients (25%) underwent paravisceral endarterectomy and 15 (75%) underwent aortoiliac endarterectomy. There were no perioperative mortalities. One paravisceral patient died 3 months postoperatively from complications of pneumonia. Three patients in the paravisceral group required reinterventions; one acutely due to thrombosis of the superior mesenteric artery (SMA) requiring extension of the endarterectomy and patch angioplasty on postoperative day 0, one due to stenosis at the distal edge of the endarterectomy 1 month postoperatively, successfully treated with SMA stenting, and one at 10-month follow-up due to SMA stenosis at the distal aspect of the endarterectomy, also successfully treated with SMA stenting. With these reinterventions, the 1-year primary patency in the paravisceral group was 40%, primary-assisted patency was 80%, and secondary patency was 100%. In the aortoiliac group, 1-year primary, primary-assisted, and secondary patency were 91%, 91%, and 100%, respectively. One patient developed iliac thrombosis 10 days postoperatively owing to an intimal flap distal to the endarterectomy site. She and one other patient, a young man with an undefined hypercoagulable disorder, ultimately required neoaortoiliac reconstructions at 18 and 32 months postoperatively, respectively (the latter in the setting of stopping anticoagulation). The remaining 13 patients experienced no complications. All patients had rapid resolution of clinical symptoms, and median postoperative ankle-brachial indexes of 1.06 on the right and 1.00 on the left, representing a median improvement from preoperative ankle-brachial indexes of +0.59 on the right and +0.56 on the left (P < .01 and P < .01).
CONCLUSIONS: In this series of 20 patients undergoing paravisceral and infrarenal aortoiliac endarterectomy, AE was associated with no perioperative mortality, relatively low and manageable morbidity, and excellent clinical outcomes in patients with both paravisceral and aortoiliac occlusive disease. SMA-related early reintervention was not uncommon in the paravisceral group, and attention should be given particularly to the distal endarterectomy site. AE remains a viable treatment for severe multivessel paravisceral or aortoiliac occlusive disease isolated to the aorta and common iliac arteries in select patients.

Citation: Motyl CM, et al. Aortic endarterectomy in patients with severe multivessel paravisceral and aortoiliac occlusive disease. Aortic endarterectomy in patients with severe multivessel paravisceral and aortoiliac occlusive disease. 2024; 79:837-844. doi: 10.1016/j.jvs.2023.11.062

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38141738/
