PMID: 38143429
Title: Systemic immune-inflammation index is associated with ulcerative plaque in patients with acute ischemic stroke: A single center exploratory study.

Abstract: PURPOSE: This study explored the correlation between inflammatory markers and ulcerative plaques based on carotid doppler ultrasound (CDU) in individuals with acute ischemic stroke (AIS).
METHODS: A total of 202 cases diagnosed with AIS associated with atherosclerotic plaque (AP) in the carotid artery were enrolled in this research. Collecting clinical baseline data, laboratory data (such as the complete blood count) and imaging data (CDU and Brain magnetic resonance imaging [MRI]). Then the correlation between Systemic immune-inflammation index (SII, SII = P N/L, where P, N, and L were the peripheral blood platelet, neutrophil and lymphocyte counts, respectively), the shape and position of AP, the degree of carotid artery stenosis, and the presence of ulcerative plaques. Cutoff values were determined accordingly.
RESULTS: SII and high sensitivity CRP (hs-CRP) were independent risk factors for the presence of vulnerable carotid plaques. SII, type A plaque, plaque above carotid bifurcation, and severe carotid stenosis were independent risk factors for the presence of ulcerative plaque. The AUC value, the sensitivity, specificity, the best cutoff value of SII in predicting the presence of ulcerative plaque was 0.895, 93.3%, 89.2%, and 537.4 (109 /L), respectively.
CONCLUSION: SII at admission was found to be independently associated with the presence of AIS with vulnerable plaque, especially ulcerative plaques. Moreover, plaque ulceration was more likely to form when the area of higher plaque thickness was located in the upstream arterial wall of maximum plaque thickness (WTmax), plaque was above the carotid bifurcation and severe carotid stenosis.

Citation: Zhang L, et al. Systemic immune-inflammation index is associated with ulcerative plaque in patients with acute ischemic stroke: A single center exploratory study. Systemic immune-inflammation index is associated with ulcerative plaque in patients with acute ischemic stroke: A single center exploratory study. 2024; 52:295-304. doi: 10.1002/jcu.23632

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38143429/
