PMID: 38153901
Title: [Long-term stenting as an option to ensure the stability of the respiratory tract in a patient with rhonchopathy and overlap syndrome].

Abstract: Rhonchopathy is a major problem of both a medical and social nature, it is detected in about 33% of the adult population. It should be noted that snoring is often accompanied by a more formidable disease - obstructive sleep apnea (OSA) syndrome, which, in turn, is considered a life-threatening condition. It is known that in severe forms of OSA syndrome, up to 400-500 respiratory stops per night with a total duration of up to 3-4 hours can occur, which leads to acute and chronic lack of oxygen during sleep. In turn, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) is one of the most common diseases and one of the leading causes of death worldwide. The association of OSA syndrome and COPD, which is designated by the term overlap syndrome, is characterized by the summation of the negative effect of these pathological conditions on the parameters of blood oxygen saturation during night sleep. Diagnosis, treatment and prognosis in patients with overlap syndrome should be based on an interdisciplinary approach, including the use of modern and highly informative methods of functional diagnosis. To date, many methods of treatment (conservative, surgical, combined) of rhonchopathy and OSA syndrome are known. In most cases, preference is given to minimally invasive methods, creating constant positive pressure in the respiratory tract. Tracheostomy is an absolutely effective method of treating OSA syndrome, however, it is very traumatic, but in exceptional cases it is necessary. This paper describes a clinical case of installing a T-shaped stent not only for the treatment of chronic cicatricial stenosis, but also to compensate for OSA syndrome and restore vocal function.

Citation: Ryabova MA, et al. [Long-term stenting as an option to ensure the stability of the respiratory tract in a patient with rhonchopathy and overlap syndrome]. [Long-term stenting as an option to ensure the stability of the respiratory tract in a patient with rhonchopathy and overlap syndrome]. 2023; 88:100-106. doi: 10.17116/otorino202388061100

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38153901/
