PMID: 38156332
Title: Coronary stenosis quantification in cardiac computed tomography angiography: multi-factorial optimization of image quality and radiation dose.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: The accuracy and variability of quantification in computed tomography angiography (CTA) are affected by the interplay of imaging parameters and patient attributes. The assessment of these combined effects has been an open engineering challenge.
PURPOSE: In this study, we developed a framework that optimizes imaging parameters for accurate and consistent coronary stenosis quantification in cardiac CTA while accounting for patient-specific variables.
METHODS: The framework utilizes a task-specific image quality index, the estimability index (e'), approximated by a surrogate estimability polynomial function (EPF) capable of finding the optimal protocol that (1) maximizes image quality with an upper bound for desired radiation dose or (2) minimizes the dose level with a lower bound of acceptable image quality. The optimization process was formulated with the decision variables being subject to a set of constraints. The methodology was verified using CTA data from a prior clinical trial (prospective multi-center imaging study for evaluation of chest pain) by assessing the concordance of its prediction with the trial results. Further, the framework was used to derive an optimum protocol for each case based on the patient attributes, gauging how much improvement would have been possible if the derived optimized protocol would have been deployed.
RESULTS: The framework produced results consistent with imaging physics principles with approximated EPFs of 97% accuracy. The feature importance evaluation demonstrated a close match with earlier studies. The verification study found e' scores closely predicting the cardiologist scores to within 95% in terms of the area under the receiver operating characteristic curve and predicting potential for either an average of fourfold increase in e' within a targeted dose or a reduction in radiation dose by an average of 57% without reducing the image quality.
CONCLUSIONS: The protocol optimization framework provides means to assess and optimize CTA in terms of either image quality or radiation dose objectives with its results predicting prior clinical trial findings.

Citation: Zarei M, et al. Coronary stenosis quantification in cardiac computed tomography angiography: multi-factorial optimization of image quality and radiation dose. Coronary stenosis quantification in cardiac computed tomography angiography: multi-factorial optimization of image quality and radiation dose. 2023; 10:063502. doi: 10.1117/1.JMI.10.6.063502

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38156332/
