PMID: 38159090
Title: Interleukin-37 contributes to endometrial regenerative cell-mediated immunotherapeutic effect on chronic allograft vasculopathy.

Abstract: BACKGROUND AIMS: Chronic allograft vasculopathy (CAV) remains a predominant contributor to late allograft failure after organ transplantation. Several factors have already been shown to facilitate the progression of CAV, and there is still an urgent need for effective and specific therapeutic approaches to inhibit CAV. Human mesenchymal-like endometrial regenerative cells (ERCs) are free from the deficiencies of traditional invasive acquisition methods and possess many advantages. Nevertheless, the exact immunomodulation mechanism of ERCs remains to be elucidated.
METHODS: C57BL/6 (B6) mouse recipients receiving BALB/c mouse donor abdominal aorta transplantation were treated with ERCs, negative control (NC)-ERCs and interleukin (IL)-37-/-ERCs (ERCs with IL-37 ablation), respectively. Pathologic lesions and inflammatory cell infiltration in the grafts, splenic immune cell populations, circulating donor-specific antibody levels and cytokine profiles were analyzed on postoperative day (POD) 40. The proliferative capacities of Th1, Th17 and Treg subpopulations were assessed in vitro.
RESULTS: Allografts from untreated recipients developed typical pathology features of CAV, namely endothelial thickening, on POD 40. Compared with untreated and IL-37-/-ERC-treated groups, IL-37-secreting ERCs (ERCs and NC-ERCs) significantly reduced vascular stenosis, the intimal hyperplasia and collagen deposition. IL-37-secreting ERCs significantly inhibited the proliferation of CD4+T cells, reduced the proportions of Th1 and Th17 cells, but increased the proportion of Tregs in vitro. Furthermore, in vitro results also showed that IL-37-secreting ERCs significantly inhibited Th1 and Th17 cell responses, abolished B-cell activation, diminished donor-specific antibody production and increased Treg proportions. Notably, IL-37-secreting ERCs remarkably downregulated the levels of pro-inflammatory cytokines (interferon-γ, tumor necrosis factor-α, IL-1β, IL-6 and IL-17A) and increased IL-10 levels in transplant recipients.
CONCLUSIONS: The knockdown of IL-37 dramatically abrogates the therapeutic ability of ERCs for CAV. Thus, this study highlights that IL-37 is indispensable for ERC-mediated immunomodulation for CAV and improves the long-term allograft acceptance.

Citation: Qin Y, et al. Interleukin-37 contributes to endometrial regenerative cell-mediated immunotherapeutic effect on chronic allograft vasculopathy. Interleukin-37 contributes to endometrial regenerative cell-mediated immunotherapeutic effect on chronic allograft vasculopathy. 2024; 26:299-310. doi: 10.1016/j.jcyt.2023.12.004

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38159090/
