PMID: 38151323
Title: Down-regulation of miR-21-5p by pirfenidone to inhibit fibroblast proliferation in the treatment of acquired tracheal stenosis.

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: Treatment options for acquired tracheal stenosis (ATS) are limited due to a series of pathophysiological changes including inflammation and cell proliferation. Micro ribonucleic acid-21-5p (miR-21-5p) may promote the excessive proliferation of fibroblasts. However, various types of fibrosis can be prevented with pirfenidone (PFD). Currently, the effect of PFD on miR-21-5p and its biological function has not been clarified. In this study, PFD was evaluated as a potential treatment for ATS by inducing fibroblast proliferation in lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced fibroblasts by targeting miR-21-5p.
METHODS: For 48 h, 1 g/ml LPS was used to generate fibroblasts in vitro, followed by the separation of cells into four groups: control, PFD, mimic, and mimic + PFD. The Cell Counting Kit-8 (CCK-8) technique was adopted to measure the proliferation of fibroblasts. Real-time quantitative polymerase chain reaction (RT-qPCR) and Western blot (WB) were used to measure the relative expressions of tumor necrosis factor-α (TNF-α), transforming growth factor-β1 (TGF-β1), drosophila mothers against decapentaplegic 7 (Smad7) and collagen type I alpha 1(COL1A1) messenger RNA (mRNA) and proteins, respectively.
RESULTS: (1) At 0, 24, 48, and 72 h, fibroblast growth was assessed using the CCK-8 method. Compared with the control group, the mimic group showed the highest fibroblast viability, and the PFD group showed the lowest fibroblast viability. However, fibroblast viability increased in the mimic + PFD group but decreased in the mimic one. (2) RT-qPCR and WB showed that the mimic group exhibited a significant up-regulation in the relative expressions of TNF-α, TGF-β1, and COL1A1 mRNA and proteins but a down-regulation in the relative expression of Smad7 mRNA and protein compared with the control one. In the PFD group, the results were the opposite. Nevertheless, the relative expressions of TNF-α, TGF-β1, and COL1A1 mRNA and proteins were increased, whereas that of Smad7 mRNA was decreased in the mimic + PFD group. The change was less in the mimic group.
CONCLUSION: PFD may have a preventive and curative effect on ATS by inhibiting fibroblast proliferation and the fibrotic process and possibly through down-regulating miR-21-5p and up-regulating Smad7 and its mediated fibrotic and inflammatory responses.

Citation: Li W, et al. Down-regulation of miR-21-5p by pirfenidone to inhibit fibroblast proliferation in the treatment of acquired tracheal stenosis. Down-regulation of miR-21-5p by pirfenidone to inhibit fibroblast proliferation in the treatment of acquired tracheal stenosis. 2024; 18:e13727. doi: 10.1111/crj.13727

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38151323/
