PMID: 38159717
Title: Duplex Scans Performed Immediately Following Lower Extremity Angioplasty and Stenting are of Limited Utility.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Together with clinical examination, surveillance duplex examination represents the Society of Vascular Surgery recommendations for follow-up after endovascular intervention on the superficial femoral artery (SFA) and popliteal arterial segments. Compliance with postprocedural follow-up remains challenging. To establish a postangioplasty physiologic baseline, our institution began obtaining immediate postprocedural surveillance studies following lower extremity arterial interventions. We reviewed the utility of immediate postprocedural surveillance to determine if these studies enhanced postoperative care.
METHODS: Serial patients undergoing SFA and popliteal angioplasty and stenting from January 2014 to December 2020 were identified from our prospectively maintained Vascular Surgery database. Patient demographic information, procedural details, and procedural outcomes were subsequently analyzed from the electronic medical record.
RESULTS: Two hundred and sixty-three patients underwent 385 SFA and/or popliteal angioplasty/stenting interventions. Mean patient age was 64.8 ± 10 years. Among these 385 procedures, 350 (90.9%) were followed by immediate (<4 hours) postprocedural lower extremity arterial duplex scans. These 350 procedures included percutaneous transluminal angioplasty and/or stenting of the SFA (n = 236), popliteal artery (n = 34), or both (n = 80). Of these studies, 25 results (7.1%) were abnormal. One asymptomatic patient was admitted to hospital for immediate thrombolysis; however, the remaining 24 patients were followed clinically with no immediate intervention required. Abnormal results included 13 abnormalities appreciated on the final angiogram with 9 patients with known occlusions or stenoses, and 4 patients with mild to moderate CFA stenosis. Abnormal findings not detected on the final angiogram included 7 patients with mild to moderate stenosis and 5 patients with short occlusions (1.4%). All 5 patients with short segmental occlusions not detected on final arteriogram had preprocedural anatomy classified as either TASC C (TransAtlantic Inter-Society Consensus: SFA occlusions > 15 cm in length, n = 1) or TASC D (SFA occlusions > 20 cm in lenth, n = 4).
CONCLUSIONS: Immediate postprocedural duplex scans demonstrate significant vessel stenosis or occlusion in approximately 7% of cases but most stenoses and occlusions were noted on final arteriography. Duplex detected short segmental occlusions not noted on final arteriography were rare (1.4%), and occurred among patients with TASC C or TASC D occlusive disease. These duplex detected abnormalities rarely changed the patient's immediate plan of care. The performance of these immediate postprocedural duplex scans demonstrated limited clinical utility.

Citation: Sanghvi AP, et al. Duplex Scans Performed Immediately Following Lower Extremity Angioplasty and Stenting are of Limited Utility. Duplex Scans Performed Immediately Following Lower Extremity Angioplasty and Stenting are of Limited Utility. 2024; 103:9-13. doi: 10.1016/j.avsg.2023.10.008

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38159717/
