PMID: 38153501
Title: Does Laminectomy Affect Spino-Pelvic Balance in Lumbar Spinal Stenosis? A Study Based on the EOS X-Ray Imaging System.

Abstract: PURPOSE: Lumbar spinal stenosis (LSS) is a degenerative disorder causing the forward bending of the trunk and pelvic retroversion with the consequent loss of lumbar lordosis; surgical treatment is intended to enlarge the canal and foramina and decompress the nerve roots. The purpose of our study is to determine whether and to what extent facet-sparing laminectomy affects the spino-pelvic balance.
METHODS: The spino-pelvic balance of 26 patients was analysed before and after surgery through the EOS X-ray Imaging System. The following parameters were considered: thoracic kyphosis (TK), lumbar lordosis (LL), pelvic incidence (PI), pelvic tilt (PT) and sacral slope (SS). Clinical data were expressed in numeric values according to the Oswestry Disability Index (ODI), the visual analogue scale (VAS) and the modified Japanese Orthopaedic Association (mJOA) scoring system.
RESULTS: Significant SS decreases and PT increases were noticed after surgery, without modification in LL, axial vertebral rotation (AVR) and the general alignment. Pain and disability had a significant improvement, as represented by a decrease in scores on the VAS and ODI scales and an increase in scores on the mJOA functional scale.
CONCLUSION: The most important parameter seems to be a congruence between pelvic and spinal parameters, which achieves an economic posture with the physiologic position of the axis of gravity. According to the literature, a standard sagittal balance (SB) has not been defined.

Citation: D'Ercole M, et al. Does Laminectomy Affect Spino-Pelvic Balance in Lumbar Spinal Stenosis? A Study Based on the EOS X-Ray Imaging System. Does Laminectomy Affect Spino-Pelvic Balance in Lumbar Spinal Stenosis? A Study Based on the EOS X-Ray Imaging System. 2023; 135:405-412. doi: 10.1007/978-3-031-36084-8_62

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38153501/
