PMID: 38151895
Title: "The microcatheter contrast injection technique": A novel technique to detect the proximal end of a thrombus in mechanical thrombectomy.

Abstract: Background: An aspiration catheter needs to attach to a thrombus in order to achieve first-pass recanalization by mechanical thrombectomy (MT) for acute ischemic stroke (AIS), particularly that using a direct aspiration first pass technique. The meniscus sign, which is defined as meniscoid contrast opacification indicating the proximal edge of a thrombus, has been suggested to contribute to successful recanalization. In some cases, the meniscus sign is not detected following an injection of contrast medium through a guiding catheter. To precisely identify the location of a thrombus, we use "the microcatheter contrast injection (MCI) technique," which accurately shows the proximal edge of a thrombus. We herein introduce this novel technique and discuss its efficacy in MT. Methods: In cases without the meniscus sign, a microcatheter was advanced to the distal end of contrast opacification, and contrast medium was injected through the microcatheter to detect the meniscus sign. An aspiration catheter was then advanced to the thrombus indicated by the meniscus sign and slowly withdrawn under aspiration. Results: 29 patients underwent MT for AIS using the MCI technique. Even in cases without the meniscus sign on initial angiography, the MCI technique accurately revealed the proximal edge of the thrombus. Moreover, middle cerebral artery occlusion due to atherosclerotic stenosis and displacement of the aspiration catheter and thrombus axis were detected using this technique. Conclusions: The MCI technique may effectively reveal the exact site of a thrombus and increase the success rate of first-pass recanalization.

Citation: Iida Y, et al. "The microcatheter contrast injection technique": A novel technique to detect the proximal end of a thrombus in mechanical thrombectomy. "The microcatheter contrast injection technique": A novel technique to detect the proximal end of a thrombus in mechanical thrombectomy. 2023; (unknown volume):19714009231224427. doi: 10.1177/19714009231224427

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38151895/
