PMID: 38165112
Title: Rotational atherectomy combined with cutting balloon to optimise stent expansion in calcified lesions: the ROTA-CUT randomised trial.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) of calcified lesions remains challenging for interventionalists.
AIMS: We aimed to investigate whether combining rotational atherectomy (RA) with cutting balloon angioplasty (RA+CBA) results in more optimal stent expansion compared with RA followed by non-compliant balloon angioplasty (RA+NCBA).
METHODS: ROTA-CUT is a prospective, multicentre, randomised trial of 60 patients with coronary artery disease undergoing PCI of moderately or severely calcified lesions with drug-eluting stent implantation. Patients were randomised 1:1 to either RA+CBA or RA+NCBA. The primary endpoint was the minimum stent area on intravascular ultrasound (IVUS). Secondary endpoints included minimum lumen area and stent expansion assessed by IVUS and acute lumen gain, final residual diameter stenosis and minimum lumen diameter assessed by angiography. Clinical endpoints were obtained at 30 days.
RESULTS: The mean age was 71.1±9.4 years, and 22% were women. The procedural details of RA were similar between groups, as were procedure duration and contrast use. Minimum stent area was similar with RA+CBA versus RA+NCBA (6.7±1.7 mm2 vs 6.9±1.8 mm2; p=0.685). Furthermore, there were no significant differences regarding the other IVUS and angiographic endpoints. Procedural complications were rare, and 30-day clinical events included 2 myocardial infarctions and 1 target vessel revascularisation in the RA+CBA group and 1 myocardial infarction in the RA+NCBA group.
CONCLUSIONS: Combining RA with CBA resulted in a similar minimum stent area compared with RA followed by NCBA in patients undergoing PCI of moderately or severely calcified lesions. RA followed by CBA was safe with rare procedural complications and few clinical adverse events at 30 days.

Citation: Sharma SK, et al. Rotational atherectomy combined with cutting balloon to optimise stent expansion in calcified lesions: the ROTA-CUT randomised trial. Rotational atherectomy combined with cutting balloon to optimise stent expansion in calcified lesions: the ROTA-CUT randomised trial. 2024; 20:75-84. doi: 10.4244/EIJ-D-23-00811

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38165112/
