PMID: 38163616
Title: Preoperative computed tomography-imaging with patient-specific computer simulation in transcatheter aortic valve implantation: Design and rationale of the GUIDE-TAVI trial.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Transcatheter aortic valve implantation (TAVI) is an established treatment option for patients with severe aortic valve stenosis, but is still associated with relatively high rates of pacemaker implantation and paravalvular regurgitation. Routine preoperative computed tomography (CT) combined with patient-specific computer modelling can predict the interaction between the TAVI device and the patient's unique anatomy, allowing physicians to assess the risk for paravalvular regurgitation and conduction disorders in advance to the procedure. The aim of this trial is to assess potential improvement in the procedural outcome of TAVI by applying CT-based patient-specific computer simulations in patients with suitable anatomy for TAVI.
METHODS: The GUIDE-TAVI trial is an international multicenter randomized controlled trial including patients accepted for TAVI by the Heart Team. Patients enrolled in the study will be randomized into 2 arms of each 227 patients. In patients randomized to the use of FEops HEARTGuide (FHG), patient-specific computer simulation with FHG is performed in addition to routine preoperative CT imaging and results of the FHG are available to the operator(s) prior to the scheduled intervention. In patients randomized to no use of FHG, only routine preoperative CT imaging is performed. The primary objective is to evaluate whether the use of FHG will reduce the incidence of mild to severe PVR, according to the Valve Academic Research Consortium 3. Secondary endpoints include the incidence of new conduction disorders requiring permanent pacemaker implantation, the difference between preoperative and final selected valve size, the difference between target and final implantation depth, change of preoperative decision, failure to implant valve, early safety composite endpoint and quality of life.
CONCLUSIONS: The GUIDE-TAVI trial is the first multicenter randomized controlled trial to evaluate the value of 3-dimensional computer simulations in addition to standard preprocedural planning in TAVI procedures.

Citation: Hegeman RRMJJ, et al. Preoperative computed tomography-imaging with patient-specific computer simulation in transcatheter aortic valve implantation: Design and rationale of the GUIDE-TAVI trial. Preoperative computed tomography-imaging with patient-specific computer simulation in transcatheter aortic valve implantation: Design and rationale of the GUIDE-TAVI trial. 2024; 269:158-166. doi: 10.1016/j.ahj.2023.12.017

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38163616/
