PMID: 38168413
Title: A germline chimeric KANK1-DMRT1 transcript derived from a complex structural variant is associated with a congenital heart defect segregating across five generations.

Abstract: Structural variants (SVs) pose a challenge to detect and interpret, but their study provides novel biological insights and molecular diagnosis underlying rare diseases. The aim of this study was to resolve a 9p24 rearrangement segregating in a family through five generations with a congenital heart defect (congenital pulmonary and aortic valvular stenosis, and pulmonary artery stenosis), by applying a combined genomic analysis. The analysis involved multiple techniques, including karyotype, chromosomal microarray analysis (CMA), FISH, whole-genome sequencing (WGS), RNA-seq and optical genome mapping (OGM). A complex 9p24 SV was hinted at by CMA results, showing three interspersed duplicated segments. Combined WGS and OGM analyses revealed that the 9p24 duplications constitute a complex SV, on which a set of breakpoints match the boundaries of the CMA duplicated sequences. The proposed structure for this complex rearrangement implies three duplications associated with an inversion of ~ 2Mb region on chromosome 9 with a SINE element insertion at the more distal breakpoint. Interestingly, this hypothesized genomic structure of rearrangement forms a chimeric transcript of the KANK1/DMRT1 loci, which was confirmed by RNA-seq on blood from 9p24 rearrangement carriers. Altogether with breakpoint amplification and FISH analysis, this combined approach allowed a deep characterization of this complex rearrangement. Although the genotype-phenotype correlation remains elusive from the molecular mechanism point of view, this study identified a large genomic rearrangement at 9p segregating with a familial congenital clinical trait, revealing a genetic biomarker that was successfully applied for embryo selection, changing the reproductive perspective of affected individuals.

Citation: Costa SS, et al. A germline chimeric KANK1-DMRT1 transcript derived from a complex structural variant is associated with a congenital heart defect segregating across five generations. A germline chimeric KANK1-DMRT1 transcript derived from a complex structural variant is associated with a congenital heart defect segregating across five generations. 2023; (unknown volume):(unknown pages). doi: 10.21203/rs.3.rs-3740005/v1

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38168413/
