PMID: 38166439
Title: Fatal superior vena cava rupture complicating dialysis catheter exchange.

Abstract: Central vein stenosis (CVS) is a common and challenging complication in hemodialysis patients with chronic central venous catheters (CVCs). CVS often remains asymptomatic and is discovered incidentally during follow-up imaging. CVS symptoms include arm swelling, venous hypertension, impaired dialysis flow rates, and development of collateral veins. However, these symptoms can be nonspecific and overlap with other conditions, making the diagnosis challenging. Timely recognition and appropriate intervention are crucial to prevent complications and optimize patient outcomes. Diagnostic tools commonly used include duplex ultrasonography and venography to assess the degree and location of stenosis. Management strategies for CVS encompass a multidisciplinary approach involving nephrologists, interventional radiologists, and vascular surgeons. Initial conservative measures may include anticoagulation therapy, along with pharmacological interventions such as antiplatelet agents and thrombolytics. The endovascular approach is the first line for managing CVS by using balloon angioplasty either alone or in combination with stent placement, but CVS typically recurs frequently, requiring repeated interventions with an increased risk of complications. Additionally, alternative vascular access options such as arteriovenous fistulas or grafts may be considered. In this report, we describe a case of a 25-year-old woman who presented with an extensive history of multiple dialysis access failure for left internal jugular vein central venous tunneled catheter exchange. The procedure was complicated by a fatal superior vena cava rupture likely related to the dislodgment of the guidewire causing perforation into the pericardium space with subsequent cardiopulmonary collapse. The post-mortem autopsy showed severe organized stenosis of SVC and transmural defect above the SVC/atrial junction.

Citation: Ali AE, et al. Fatal superior vena cava rupture complicating dialysis catheter exchange. Fatal superior vena cava rupture complicating dialysis catheter exchange. 2024; (unknown volume):11297298231219288. doi: 10.1177/11297298231219288

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38166439/
