PMID: 38173784
Title: The first reported case of intravascular ultrasound-guided reverse overlapping stenting of a long calcified lesion using ultra-low contrast and metallic roadmaps: case report.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) of a long calcified coronary lesion in patients with chronic kidney disease (CKD) is challenging and can lead to stent under-expansion and contrast-induced acute kidney injury (CI-AKI). We described the first case of intravascular ultrasound (IVUS)-guided reverse overlapping stenting of long calcified left anterior descending (LAD) coronary lesion using ultra-low contrast and the metallic roadmaps to prevent CI-AKI after PCI.
CASE SUMMARY: A 77-year-old man with a history of hypertension, type 2 diabetes, and CKD was admitted with angina class 4 and ruled in for non-ST-elevation myocardial infarction. His ejection fraction was 40%. He was referred for cardiac catheterization and PCI. Coronary angiography showed a long calcified stenosis of the LAD. IVUS catheter was advanced at least 10 mm distal to the lesion or stent edge. IVUS images were obtained with automated pullback (1 mm/s) using a commercially available IVUS system with a 60-MHz mechanical transducer (Boston Scientific, Natick, Massachusetts). IVUS showed calcified plaque fractures after balloon angioplasty and intracoronary lithotripsy. The first stent was deployed proximally using the guidewire in the diagonal branch as a metallic roadmap, and the second stent was deployed distally overlapping at the distal edge of the first stent as a roadmap with no contrast injection. Percutaneous coronary intervention was completed successfully using only 12 mL contrast. Glomerular filtration rate remained stable after PCI. Glomerular filtration rate and ejection fraction improved at 12-month follow-up.
DISCUSSION: We described the first case of the reverse overlapping stenting technique guided by IVUS with no contrast in a patient with CKD and a long calcified LAD lesion. Conventionally, in long lesions, the first stent is deployed distally and the second stent proximally, which requires contrast injection for stent deployment. We demonstrated that the above technique resulted in preventing CI-AKI and improving creatinine as well as ejection fraction at follow-up.

Citation: Leesar MA and Chen SL. The first reported case of intravascular ultrasound-guided reverse overlapping stenting of a long calcified lesion using ultra-low contrast and metallic roadmaps: case report. The first reported case of intravascular ultrasound-guided reverse overlapping stenting of a long calcified lesion using ultra-low contrast and metallic roadmaps: case report. 2024; 8:ytad561. doi: 10.1093/ehjcr/ytad561

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38173784/
