PMID: 38172985
Title: Comparison of anterior cervical diskectomy with fusion (ACDF) and laminoplasty treating multilevel cervical spondylotic myelopathy with developmental canal stenosis: a retrospective study.

Abstract: PURPOSE: To evaluate clinical effectiveness and radiologic results of anterior cervical diskectomy with fusion (ACDF) comparing with laminoplasty (LP) in treating multilevel cervical spondylotic myelopathy (MCSM) with developmental canal stenosis (DCS).
METHODS: This was a retrospective analysis of 41 patients who had MCSM with DCS treated with ACDF or LP from December 2018 to April 2023. Patients were split into ACDF and LP groups for comparison, and patients were further separated into subgroups based on whether or not a reserving canal space was present. The operation time, hemoglobin, hospital stay, modified Japanese Orthopaedic Association (mJOA) score, and visual analog scale (VAS) score were used to assess clinical efficacy. The C2-C7 Cobb angle, C2-C7 sagittal vertical axis, T1 slope, and cervical range of motion were applied to evaluate imaging changes.
RESULTS: Of the 41 patients, 19 received ACDF, and 22 received LP. At the final follow-up, both groups' mJOA scores significantly improved, and the intercomparison showed no differences; the VAS score was much lower in the ACDF group but remained unchanged in the LP group. At the final follow-up, the C2-C7 Cobb angle and T1 slope had significantly increased in the ACDF group, while the LP group showed no change; the cervical range of motion had significantly decreased in both groups, with the ACDF group exhibiting a more marked reduction. Within the ACDF subgroup, there was no postoperative symptom improvement for those with reserving space, whereas there was postoperative symptom resolution for those with non-reserving space; however, postoperative symptom in the LP subgroup was resolved.
CONCLUSIONS: Both ACDF and LP were efficacious for MCSM patients with DCS. While ACDF could improve cervical lordosis and alleviate neck pain more effectively, it can also result in cervical sagittal imbalance and decreased mobility. Furthermore, the recovery from LP was superior to that from ACDF for patients with reserving space. In contrast, the recovery from both decompression techniques was comparable for individuals in non-reserving space.

Citation: Dai L, et al. Comparison of anterior cervical diskectomy with fusion (ACDF) and laminoplasty treating multilevel cervical spondylotic myelopathy with developmental canal stenosis: a retrospective study. Comparison of anterior cervical diskectomy with fusion (ACDF) and laminoplasty treating multilevel cervical spondylotic myelopathy with developmental canal stenosis: a retrospective study. 2024; 19:29. doi: 10.1186/s13018-023-04510-0

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38172985/
