PMID: 38172441
Title: Associations between atherosclerotic luminal stenosis in the distal internal carotid artery and diffuse wall thickening in its upstream segment.

Abstract: OBJECTIVES: Significant atherosclerotic stenosis or occlusion in the distal internal carotid artery (ICA) may induce diffuse wall thickening (DWT) in the upstream arterial wall. This study aimed to assess the association of atherosclerotic steno-occlusive diseases in the distal ICA with DWT in the upstream ipsilateral ICA.
METHODS: Individuals with atherosclerotic stenosis in the distal ICA, detected by carotid MR vessel wall imaging using 3D pre- and post-contrast T1 volume isotropic turbo spin-echo acquisition (T1-VISTA) sequence, were enrolled. The associations of vessel wall thickening, the longitudinal extent of DWT, enhancement of the upstream ipsilateral ICA, and stenosis degree in the distal ICA were examined.
RESULTS: Totally 64 arteries in 55 patients with atherosclerotic steno-occlusive distal ICAs were included. Significant correlations were found between distal ICA stenosis and DWT in the petrous ICA (r = 0.422, p = 0.001), DWT severity (r = 0.474, p < 0.001), the longitudinal extent of DWT in the ICA (r = 0.671, p < 0.001), enhancement in the petrous ICA (r = 0.409, p = 0.001), and enhancement degree (r = 0.651, p < 0.001). In addition, high degree of enhancement was correlated with both increased wall thickness and increased prevalence of DWT in the petrous ICA (both p < 0.001).
CONCLUSIONS: DWT of the petrous ICA is commonly detected in patients with atherosclerotic steno-occlusive disease in the distal ICA. The degree of stenosis in the distal ICA is associated with wall thickening and its longitudinal extent in the upstream segments.
CLINICAL RELEVANCE STATEMENT: Diffuse wall thickening is a common secondary change in atherosclerotic steno-occlusive disease in the intracranial carotid. This phenomenon constitutes a confounding factor in the distinction between atherosclerosis and inflammatory vasculopathies, and could be reversed after alleviated atherosclerotic stenosis.
KEY POINTS: • Diffuse wall thickening of the petrous internal carotid artery is commonly detected in patients with atherosclerotic steno-occlusive disease in the distal internal carotid artery. • The phenomenon of diffuse wall thickening could be reversed after stenosis alleviation. • Carotid artery atherosclerosis with diffuse wall thickening should warrant a differential diagnosis from other steno-occlusive diseases, including moyamoya diseases and Takayasu aortitis.

Citation: Zhang J, et al. Associations between atherosclerotic luminal stenosis in the distal internal carotid artery and diffuse wall thickening in its upstream segment. Associations between atherosclerotic luminal stenosis in the distal internal carotid artery and diffuse wall thickening in its upstream segment. 2024; 34:4831-4840. doi: 10.1007/s00330-023-10539-w

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38172441/
