PMID: 38173811
Title: Anatomical Distribution Patterns of Peripheral Arterial Disease in the Upper Extremities According to Patient Characteristics: A Retrospective Cohort Study.

Abstract: PURPOSE: Peripheral arterial disease (PAD) greatly affects the patients' quality of life. We aimed to investigate the affected anatomical sites and distribution patterns in upper extremity PAD using computed tomography angiography (CTA). Furthermore, we sought to identify the correlations between patient characteristics and the identified patterns.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: This was a retrospective chart review of upper limb CTA findings from patients with symptomatic PAD aged &gt;18 years. Significant variables from univariate logistic regression analysis were further tested using multivariate logistic regression analysis. Statistical significance was set at p &lt; 0.05, with confidence intervals of 95%.
RESULTS: The mean age of the 102 included patients with upper extremity PAD was 55.45 years. Laterality analysis revealed that the upper left limb segments were more affected than the upper right limb segments (42 vs 63; left-to-right ratio, 3:2). The forearm was the segment most affected by stenotic PAD (62 segments, 3.37%). The arm was the segment most affected by occlusive PAD (14 segments, 0.76%). Diabetes mellitus (DM) and hypertension (HTN) were significant predictors of PAD (p = 0.046). In patients with DM, the occlusive form of PAD was dominant in the arm (18.18%); however, the stenotic form prevailed in the forearm (72.72%). In patients with HTN, the occlusive form of PAD was predominant in the arm (45.45%); however, the stenotic form tended to occur in the arm and forearm (90.90%).
CONCLUSION: The distribution patterns of upper extremity PAD are linked to its underlying pathophysiology. HTN and DM are the most frequent comorbidities in patients with upper extremity PAD. Angiographically, PAD in these patients is likely to present as stenosis rather than as occlusion. This is vital for interventionists who deviate from radial arterial access in patients with PAD. Therefore, targeted screening standards are required, and further studies on PAD are warranted.

Citation: Al-Sharydah AM, et al. Anatomical Distribution Patterns of Peripheral Arterial Disease in the Upper Extremities According to Patient Characteristics: A Retrospective Cohort Study. Anatomical Distribution Patterns of Peripheral Arterial Disease in the Upper Extremities According to Patient Characteristics: A Retrospective Cohort Study. 2023; 19:871-883. doi: 10.2147/VHRM.S440408

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38173811/
