PMID: 38185833
Title: Endourological Management of Ureteral Stricture in Patients with Renal Transplant: A Systematic Review of Literature.

Abstract: Purpose: To analyze the utility and outcomes of available endourologic options to treat ureteral stricture after kidney transplantation (KT). Methods: A systematic review was carried out for all English language articles from 2000 to 2023 according to the Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic Reviews and Meta-Analysis (PRISMA) standards using EMBASE, MEDLINE, SCOPUS, Google scholar, and Cochrane library. The search term combination for the string was follows: [(Ureteral stricture) OR (ureter stenosis) OR (ureteral stenosis) OR (Stricture ureter) OR (Narrowing ureter) OR (Ureter restriction) OR (ureteral restriction) OR (ureteral narrowing) OR (ureteral obstruction) OR (ureter obstruction) OR (obstructing ureter) OR (obstructive ureter) OR (narrow ureter) OR (ureteral narrow)] AND [(kidney transplant) OR (transplanted kidney) OR (transplant) OR (transplantation)] AND [(management) OR (Robotic) OR (laser) OR (stent) OR (dilatation) OR (dilation) OR (endoscopic) OR (endourological) OR (Urologic) OR (laparoscopic) OR (surgery) OR (treatment)]. Case reports, review articles, animal and laboratory studies were excluded. Risk of bias assessment was conducted using the RoB 2 and ROBINS-I tools. Results: A total of 1102 relevant articles published from 2000 to 2023 were found. After screening of titles and abstracts, a total of 19 articles were included in our systematic review. Ureteral stent/nephrostomy placement, balloon dilatation (ureteroplasty) with or without laser was used as initial approaches whereas follow-up and success rate were analyzed among other parameters. Conclusions: The management of ureteral strictures after KT is challenging and selecting the most appropriate treatment is crucial for successful outcomes. Our review suggests that, an endourologic management is a safe option with good long-term outcomes, especially in short and early strictures.

Citation: Caamiña L, et al. Endourological Management of Ureteral Stricture in Patients with Renal Transplant: A Systematic Review of Literature. Endourological Management of Ureteral Stricture in Patients with Renal Transplant: A Systematic Review of Literature. 2024; 38:290-300. doi: 10.1089/end.2023.0478

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38185833/
