PMID: 38189960
Title: Gastrointestinal involvement in STEC-associated hemolytic uremic syndrome: 10 years in a pediatric center.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: The gastrointestinal (GI) tract represents one of the main targets of typical hemolytic uremic syndrome (HUS) in children. In this observational study, we tried to establish (1) the main features of GI complications during STEC-HUS and (2) the relationship between Escherichia coli serotypes and Shiga toxin (Stx) variants with hepatopancreatic involvement.
METHODS: A total of 79 STEC-HUS patients were admitted to our pediatric nephrology department between January 2012 and June 2021. Evidence of intestinal, hepatobiliary, and pancreatic involvements was reported for each patient, alongside demographic, clinical, and laboratory features. Frequency of gastrointestinal complications across groups of patients infected by specific E. coli serotypes and Stx gene variants was evaluated.
RESULTS: Six patients developed a bowel complication: two developed rectal prolapse, and four developed bowel perforation which resulted in death for three of them and in bowel stenosis in one patient. Acute pancreatitis was diagnosed in 13 patients. An isolated increase in pancreatic enzymes and/or liver transaminases was observed in 41 and 15 patients, respectively. Biliary sludge was detected in three, cholelithiasis in one. Forty-seven patients developed direct hyperbilirubinemia. Neither E. coli serotypes nor Shiga toxin variants correlated with hepatic or pancreatic involvement.
CONCLUSIONS: During STEC-HUS, GI complications are common, ranging from self-limited elevation of laboratory markers to bowel perforation, a severe complication with a relevant impact on morbidity and mortality. Hepatopancreatic involvement is frequent, but usually short-lasting and self-limiting.

Citation: Giordano M, et al. Gastrointestinal involvement in STEC-associated hemolytic uremic syndrome: 10 years in a pediatric center. Gastrointestinal involvement in STEC-associated hemolytic uremic syndrome: 10 years in a pediatric center. 2024; 39:1885-1891. doi: 10.1007/s00467-023-06258-5

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38189960/
