PMID: 38182003
Title: The diagnostic value of stress echocardiography with limited myocardial ischemia in high-risk patients.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: The diagnostic value of limited myocardial ischemia in DSE is not well known.
OBJECTIVES: We investigated whether myocardial ischemia during dobutamine stress echocardiography (DSE) in 1 apical segment of any of the ventricular walls of the left ventricle relates to the anatomical and functional stenosis of the suppling coronary artery.
METHODS: Our observational, prospective study enrolled 212 patients, symptomatic or asymptomatic, with newly diagnosed limited myocardial ischemia on DSE. Almost 25% of them had already known CAD, while the rest were divided into low-risk and high-risk groups, integrating 1-2 and ≥3 classical cardiovascular risk factors, respectively. After DSE, all patients underwent invasive coronary angiography (ICA) and were followed up for one year. In coronary arteries distributing ischemic area, the calculated stenosis ≥50% and FFR<0.8 were considered anatomically and functionally significant, respectively. In the latter cases, the patients underwent coronary revascularization.
RESULTS: Significant anatomical and functional stenosis of the supplying coronary artery was common among patients with already known CAD (62.5% and 44.5%, respectively) or those without CAD but a high-risk profile (60.2% and 25.6%, respectively). In logistic regression analysis, CAD revascularization was independently determined by an already known CAD, diabetes mellitus, and high-risk profile. During follow-up, 24 patients experienced ACS or new angina episodes, which were associated with diabetes and smoking in univariate analysis.
CONCLUSION: Limited myocardial ischemia may implicate significant anatomical and functional coronary stenosis among individuals with a history of CAD or those without known CAD but a high-risk profile. The prognostic value of our findings requires further investigation.

Citation: Kadoglou NPE, et al. The diagnostic value of stress echocardiography with limited myocardial ischemia in high-risk patients. The diagnostic value of stress echocardiography with limited myocardial ischemia in high-risk patients. 2024; (unknown volume):(unknown pages). doi: 10.1016/j.hjc.2023.12.007

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38182003/
