PMID: 38188208
Title: Synchronous carotid endarterectomy and coronary artery bypass graft: Four case reports.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: One of the major perioperative complications for coronary artery bypass graft (CABG) is stroke. The risk of perioperative stroke after CABG is approximately 2%. Carotid stenosis (CS) is considered an independent predictor of perioperative stroke risk in CABG patients. The optimal management of such patients has been a source of controversy. One of the possible surgical options is synchronous carotid endarterectomy (CEA) and CABG. Here, we have presented 4 cases of successful synchronous CEA and CABG.
CASE SUMMARY: Our center's experience with 4 cases of significant carotid artery stenosis, which were successfully managed with combined CEA and CABG, are detailed. The first case was a female who presented for CABG after a ST-elevation myocardial infarction. She had right internal carotid artery (ICA) occlusion and 90% left ICA stenosis. The second case was a male who was electively admitted for CABG. It was discovered that he had left ICA occlusion and 90% right ICA stenosis. The third case was a male with a history of stroke, two months prior to admission. He presented with non-ST-elevation myocardial infarction. Preoperatively, it was discovered that he had > 90% right ICA stenosis. The final case was a male who was electively admitted for CABG. It was discovered that he had bilateral > 90% ICA stenosis. We have also reviewed the current evidence and guidelines for managing CS in patients undergoing CABG.
CONCLUSION: Our case series demonstrated that synchronous CEA and CABG was safe. A multicenter study with additional patients is needed. It is necessary for clinicians to screen for CS in high-risk patients with features.

Citation: AlGhamdi FK, et al. Synchronous carotid endarterectomy and coronary artery bypass graft: Four case reports. Synchronous carotid endarterectomy and coronary artery bypass graft: Four case reports. 2023; 11:8581-8588. doi: 10.12998/wjcc.v11.i36.8581

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38188208/
