PMID: 38186553
Title: Systematic Review of the Efficacy of Orbital Atherectomy in Improving the Outcome of Percutaneous Corornary Intervention in People With Diabetes.

Abstract: The optimal approach to deal with severe coronary artery calcification (CAC) in people with diabetes remains ill-defined. People with diabetes have a significant risk of developing severe vessel calcification and coronary artery disease (CAD). CAD is the leading cause of death in people with diabetes. Individuals with diabetes mainly present with severe multivessel stenosis, diffuse coronary calcification, and severe atherosclerosis, which are poor prognostic factors of revascularization procedures. Studies have shown that the revascularization of arteries in people with diabetes often results in worse outcomes than in people without diabetes. Coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG) has been recommended as the standard of care for people with DM and complex anatomic diseases, including left main CAD. However, percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) is more acceptable to patients in clinical practice because of decreased trauma and rapid recovery. Severe CAC has traditionally been challenging for PCI and a frequent indication for surgical revascularization. This study aims to determine the effectiveness of orbital atherectomy (OA) in improving PCI outcomes in patients with diabetes and identify possible adverse effects that preclude its use.  The study is reported according to PRISMA and analyzed according to Cochrane guidelines on synthesis without meta-analysis. A comprehensive literature search of EMBASE, Scopus, Web of Science, Cochrane Library, CINAHL, and MEDLINE was conducted for studies that utilized OA before PCI in people with diabetes. A reference list of the eligible articles was also screened. A narrative synthesis was done by representing the data on the effect direction plot, followed by vote counting. Eighteen studies were included in the analysis. Success rate/successful stent delivery was >90%, while freedom from angiographic complication and major adverse cardiovascular and cerebrovascular events (MACCE) were both >80% on the effect direction plot for people with diabetes and those without diabetes. People with diabetes had low event rates similar to those without diabetes. OA appears to be a viable treatment approach for people with diabetes. However, RCTs with a longer duration of follow-up are required to establish the appropriate treatment strategy for severe CAC in people with diabetes.

Citation: Muoghalu CG, et al. Systematic Review of the Efficacy of Orbital Atherectomy in Improving the Outcome of Percutaneous Corornary Intervention in People With Diabetes. Systematic Review of the Efficacy of Orbital Atherectomy in Improving the Outcome of Percutaneous Corornary Intervention in People With Diabetes. 2023; 15:e50153. doi: 10.7759/cureus.50153

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38186553/
