PMID: 38181654
Title: Aortic reimplantation of the superior mesenteric artery (SMA) for SMA stenosis in a previously stented patient: New technique and a case report.

Abstract: INTRODUCTION AND IMPORTANCE: Mesenteric artery stenosis leads to inadequate blood flow toward various parts of the gastrointestinal tract. Revascularization is the primary aim of treatment regardless of its approach. During the last decades, open revascularization has been replaced by endovascular-first approach. Mesenteric artery in-stent restenosis occurs in a considerable number of patients that need reintervention in up to half of them using redo endovascular revascularization or open surgery. Here, we reported a case of SMA and celiac artery stenoses treated by aortic reimplantation of the SMA.
CASE PRESENTATION: A 62-year-old man with history of previous stenting of CA and SMA was referred due to chronic intermittent abdominal. CT angiography of the abdomen showed restenosis of both arteries. A transection distal part of the occlusions SMA and reimplantation of it into the SMA on the anterolateral face of the infrarenal aorta as the end-to-side anastomosis were performed resulting in resolving the patient problem.
CLINICAL DISCUSSION: Chronic mesenteric ischemia can result from various medical conditions. Mesenteric vascular surgical revascularization through open laparotomy had been considered the standard of care. However, minimally invasive surgery such as endovascular therapy has attracted attention in the recent decades. There are some concerns about the difficulties of further surgery in case of re-occlusion. The end-to-side anastomosis and aortic reimplantation can be considered in patients with appropriate runoff in the remaining parts of corresponding vessels.
CONCLUSION: Aortic reimplantation of the superior mesenteric artery in patients with restenosis of stents is a viable option especially in case of inappropriate iliac artery to perform retrograde mesenteric bypass.

Citation: Zafarghandi MR, et al. Aortic reimplantation of the superior mesenteric artery (SMA) for SMA stenosis in a previously stented patient: New technique and a case report. Aortic reimplantation of the superior mesenteric artery (SMA) for SMA stenosis in a previously stented patient: New technique and a case report. 2024; 115:109170. doi: 10.1016/j.ijscr.2023.109170

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38181654/
