PMID: 38193446
Title: Upside-Down Gore Excluder as an Endoprosthesis for Aortoiliac Aneurysm Exclusion: A Retrospective Multicenter Study.

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: The upside-down configuration of a Gore Excluder contralateral leg endoprosthesis has been used to overcome diameter differences in the endovascular treatment of aortoiliac aneurysms. Our goal was not to describe the technique but to study the applicability and safety.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: Patients were retrospectively enrolled. The indication and details of the procedure were at the discretion of the treating physicians. A case report form was completed including baseline characteristics, indication for treatment, procedural data, and outcomes during follow-up.
RESULTS: A total of 31 subjects were enrolled with a range of indications, including 3 patients treated in the emergency setting (9.7%). In 64.5% (n=20), it was a primary intervention for a common iliac aneurysm (n=10), internal iliac aneurysm (n=4), or abdominal aortic aneurysm (n=6). In 11 subjects (35.5%), treatment was performed after previous aortoiliac interventions, including anastomotic iliac artery aneurysm (n=5), type III endoleak (n=3), and endograft thrombus (n=3). Median follow-up was 13 months (range=1-142 months). During follow-up, 2 patients required an upside-down contralateral leg-related secondary intervention, one for an occlusion and another for a type Ia endoleak. There was no type Ib or III endoleak, and no migration, kinking/stenosis, or conversion to open repair was observed. The aneurysm-related mortality was 3.3% (n=1).
CONCLUSION: An upside-down contralateral leg is a valuable technique that can be used to achieve adequate aneurysm exclusion or resolve complications. It is associated with a limited number of complications.
CLINICAL IMPACT: This article studies the use of an upside-down iliac endograft. We describe a wide range of indications in which this previously published technique has been applied. In elective and acute settings and as primary and revision intervention an upside-down iliac endograft was performed successfully. Furthermore, follow-up data is presented showing the effectiveness of the technique. Knowledge of this procedure is a valuable addition to the skillset of every interventionalist.

Citation: 't Mannetje YW, et al. Upside-Down Gore Excluder as an Endoprosthesis for Aortoiliac Aneurysm Exclusion: A Retrospective Multicenter Study. Upside-Down Gore Excluder as an Endoprosthesis for Aortoiliac Aneurysm Exclusion: A Retrospective Multicenter Study. 2024; (unknown volume):15266028231224257. doi: 10.1177/15266028231224257

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38193446/
