PMID: 38190006
Title: Transcatheter aortic valve replacement in patients with a pre-existing prosthetic mitral valve: a single center experience with two cases.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: The performance of transcatheter aortic valve replacement (TAVR) in patients with pre-existing prosthetic mitral valves is technically challenging due to the potential interference between both prosthetic devices. At present, there are no clear recommendations for this patient subset due to their exclusion from clinical trials. We report our experience of two cases with pre-existing prosthetic mechanical mitral valves who underwent TAVR.
CASE PRESENTATION: The first case was a 57 year old man with severe aortic stenosis and type 2 diabetes mellitus who had a mitral valve replacement 32 years ago. Operative mortality risk assessed by the Society for Thoracic Surgery (STS) Score was 1.7%, but he was considered high risk in view of previous cardiac surgery. Pre-procedure CT evaluation revealed favorable aortic root and femoral access anatomy with the mechanical mitral valve located 6.3 mm below the aortic annular plane. He underwent TAVR with a Medtronic Evolut R 29 mm self-expanding transcatheter heart valve via the femoral approach. The second case was a 66 year old lady who presented with severe aortic stenosis, atrial fibrillation and a history of mitral valve replacement 17 years ago for rheumatic mitral stenosis. Her STS score was 3.5%. Pre-procedure CT showed favorable aortic root and femoral access parameters with a mitral-aortic distance of 3.6 mm. TAVR was performed with a balloon expandable Myval 21.5 mm transcatheter heart valve via a transfemoral access. Both procedures were done successfully.
CONCLUSION: This report highlights the feasibility of TAVR in post-mitral valve replacement patients provided careful pre-procedural evaluation, and planning is done.

Citation: Kushimo OA, et al. Transcatheter aortic valve replacement in patients with a pre-existing prosthetic mitral valve: a single center experience with two cases. Transcatheter aortic valve replacement in patients with a pre-existing prosthetic mitral valve: a single center experience with two cases. 2024; 76:3. doi: 10.1186/s43044-023-00433-7

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38190006/
