PMID: 38191867
Title: Endovascular reconstruction of high cervical and long-segment carotid artery dissections with Leo plus stent.

Abstract: PURPOSE: Endovascular reconstruction has emerged as a viable alternative for carotid artery dissections (CADs) that are unresponsive to antithrombotic therapy. However, high cervical and long-segment CADs pose challenges during endovascular treatment due to their distal location and tortuous anatomy. We presented our experiences using endovascular reconstruction with the Leo plus stent for this type of CAD.
METHODS: We conducted a retrospective review of patients with high cervical and long-segment CADs treated using the Leo plus stent. We analyzed patient demographics, clinical presentations, procedural features, complications, and follow-up outcomes.
RESULTS: A total of 17 patients (mean age, 48.1 years) with 17 CADs were identified. Seven of these dissections were accompanied by pseudoaneurysm. The mean length of the dissection was 5.7 cm, and the mean degree of stenosis was 92.3%. A single Leo plus stent was deployed in 15 patients, while another Wallstent carotid stent was used in 2 cases. All stents were successfully positioned in their intended sites. The average degree of residual stenosis was 22.2%. There were no perioperative complications. With a median follow-up duration of 29 months, no ischemic stroke events occurred. All but one Leo plus stent remained patent during follow-up, and all 7 pseudoaneurysms had disappeared at the last radiological assessment.
CONCLUSION: Our experience in treating high cervical and long-segment CADs with the Leo plus stent demonstrates that this approach is practical, safe, and effective, as evidenced by long-term observations. The Leo Plus stent appears to be a suitable option for managing this type of CAD.

Citation: Lu GD, et al. Endovascular reconstruction of high cervical and long-segment carotid artery dissections with Leo plus stent. Endovascular reconstruction of high cervical and long-segment carotid artery dissections with Leo plus stent. 2024; 66:409-416. doi: 10.1007/s00234-023-03274-y

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38191867/
