PMID: 38194865
Title: Percutaneous transluminal angioplasty with stenting for transplant renal artery stenosis at the anastomosis site in a young female patient: A case report.

Abstract: INTRODUCTION: Transplant renal artery stenosis (TRAS) is one of the major vascular complications and is mostly reported within six months following kidney transplant.
CASE PRESENTATION: The present case was a 16-year-old female whose blood urea nitrogen (BUN) and creatinine rose seven days after a kidney transplant. Ultrasound investigation revealed well-prefusion with a 90-degree angle anastomosis, apparent narrowing, and peak systolic velocity of 300 cm/s. Fourteen days after the transplant, with pre-and post-intervention hemodialysis and well hydration, an angiography with diluted iodinated contrast was done for the patient, which revealed >80 % narrowing at the anastomosis site. Percutaneous transluminal angioplasty (PTAS) with stenting was carried out for the patient, resulting in normal levels of BUN, creatinine, and urinary output.
CLINICAL DISCUSSION: While the patient did not have any risk factors for TRAS and was young, an early stenosis occurred in her left internal iliac artery one week after the kidney transplant. Due to the lower accuracy of CO2 angiography, diluted iodinated contrast angiography with well hydration and pre- and post-intervention dialysis was preferred. Endovascular treatment was preferred by the patient and attending physician due to possible adhesion and complications of open surgery and the possibility of arterial rupture.
CONCLUSION: Performing PTAS two weeks after the renal transplantation at the anastomosis site can be a treatment in patients with early TRAS. However, due to the higher risk of rupture at the anastomosis site, it should be carried out carefully and with consideration of the need for open surgery.

Citation: Nazari I, et al. Percutaneous transluminal angioplasty with stenting for transplant renal artery stenosis at the anastomosis site in a young female patient: A case report. Percutaneous transluminal angioplasty with stenting for transplant renal artery stenosis at the anastomosis site in a young female patient: A case report. 2024; 115:109209. doi: 10.1016/j.ijscr.2023.109209

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38194865/
