PMID: 38194160
Title: Magnetic resonance imaging-based classification of the myodural bridge complex and its influencing factors.

Abstract: Cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) circulation is considered the third circulation of the human body. Recently, some scholars have proposed the myodural bridge (MDB) as a novel power source for CSF flow. Moreover, the suboccipital muscles can exert a driving force on the CSF via the MDB. This hypothesis is directly supported by head rotation and nodding movements, which can affect CSF circulation. The MDB has been validated as a normal structure in humans and mammals. In addition, the fusion of MDB fibers of different origins that act in concert with each other forms the MDB complex (MDBC). The MDBC may be associated with several CSF disorder-related neurological disorders in clinical practice. Therefore, the morphology of the MDBC and its influencing factors must be determined. In this study, T2-weighted imaging sagittal images of the cervical region were analyzed retrospectively in 1085 patients, and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) typing of the MDBC was performed according to the imaging features of the MDBC in the posterior atlanto-occipital interspace (PAOiS) and posterior atlanto-axial interspace (PAAiS). The effects of age and age-related degenerative changes in the cervical spine on MRI staging of the MDBC were also determined. The results revealed four MRI types of the MDBC: type A (no MDBC hyposignal shadow connected to the dura mater in either the PAOiS or PAAiS), type B (MDBC hyposignal shadow connected to the dura mater in the PAOiS only), type C (MDBC hyposignal shadow connected to the dura mater in the PAAiS only), and type D (MDBC hyposignal shadow connected to the dura mater in both the PAOiS and PAAiS). The influencing factors for the MDBC typing were age (group), degree of intervertebral space stenosis, dorsal osteophytosis, and degenerative changes in the cervical spine (P < 0.05). With increasing age (10-year interval), the incidence of type B MDBC markedly decreased, whereas that of type A MDBC increased considerably. With the deepening of the degree of intervertebral space stenosis, the incidence of type C MDBC increased significantly, whereas that of type A MDBC decreased. In the presence of dorsal osteophytosis, the incidence of type C and D MDBCs significantly decreased, whereas that of type A increased. In the presence of protrusion of the intervertebral disc, the incidence of type B, C, and D MDBCs increased markedly, whereas that of type A MDBC decreased considerably, with cervical degenerative changes combined with spinal canal stenosis. Moreover, the incidence of both type C and D MDBCs increased, whereas that of type A MDBC decreased. Based on the MRI signal characteristics of the dural side of the MDBC, four types of the MDBC were identified. MDBC typing varies dynamically according to population distribution, depending on age and cervical degeneration (degree of intervertebral space stenosis, vertebral dorsal osteophytosis formation, simple protrusion of intervertebral disc, and cervical degeneration changes combined with spinal canal stenosis, except for the degree of protrusion of the intervertebral disc and the degree of spinal canal stenosis); however, it is not influenced by sex.

Citation: Feng X, et al. Magnetic resonance imaging-based classification of the myodural bridge complex and its influencing factors. Magnetic resonance imaging-based classification of the myodural bridge complex and its influencing factors. 2024; 46:125-135. doi: 10.1007/s00276-023-03279-5

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38194160/
