PMID: 38204165
Title: Force balance ratio is a robust predictor of arterial thrombus stability.

Abstract: Thrombus formation on a damaged vessel wall can lead to the formation of a stable occlusive/subocclusive clot or unstable embolizing thrombus. Both outcomes can cause significant health damage. The mechanisms that regulate maximum thrombus size, its stability, and embolization in both micro- and macrocirculation are poorly understood. To investigate the impact of flow and intrathrombus forces on the stability of homogeneous and heterogeneous platelet thrombi in a wide range of thrombus geometries, critical interplatelet forces, vessel diameters, and hydrodynamic conditions, we took advantage of the recently developed in silico models. To perform analysis of thrombus stability/embolization in arterioles, we used our previously developed particle-based 2D model with a single-platelet resolution. Its results and predictions were further extended to a 3D case and the large spatial scales of arteries using novel particle-based and continuum 3D models. We found a robust quantitative parameter, termed force balance ratio, which quantifies the balance between destabilizing hydrodynamic and stabilizing interplatelet forces. This parameter predicts whether a homogeneous thrombus (or the shell of a heterogeneous thrombus) with a particular value of critical interplatelet forces will embolize under given hydrodynamic conditions. Our simulations also predict that, for a given magnitude of critical interplatelet forces, the longer thrombi are more stable than the shorter ones. Furthermore, the aggregates formed on top of the severe stenosis are more stable than thrombi formed at moderate stenosis. Taken together, our results give new insights into the interplay between critical interplatelet forces, local hydrodynamics, and overall thrombus stability against the flow.

Citation: Bershadsky ES, et al. Force balance ratio is a robust predictor of arterial thrombus stability. Force balance ratio is a robust predictor of arterial thrombus stability. 2024; 123:464-477. doi: 10.1016/j.bpj.2024.01.009

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38204165/
