PMID: 38205964
Title: Study on the Consistency of Angiogenesis in Carotid Plaque Evaluated by Contrast-Enhanced Ultrasound and Superb Microvascular Imaging and Its Correlation With Stroke Occurrence.

Abstract: OBJECTIVES: This study aimed to investigate the value of contrast-enhanced ultrasound (CEUS) and superb microvascular imaging (SMI) in evaluating angiogenesis in carotid artery plaques and prognosis in stroke patients.
METHODS: Sixty-one patients with carotid atherosclerotic plaques were selected. All patients received conventional ultrasound, CEUS, and SMI examination, including 32 patients with cerebral infarction and 29 patients without cerebral infarction. The results of CEUS and SMI neovascularization of patients were graded 0, 1, and 2 points according to the image characteristics. The consistency between SMI results and CEUS results was evaluated, and the differences in neovascularization in carotid plaques between patients with cerebral infarction and those without cerebral infarction were compared.
RESULTS: SMI showed that the neovascularization score in plaque was 0 point in 13 cases, 1 point in 24 cases, and 2 points in 24 cases. There were no significant differences in age, sex, plaque size, or echo between the two groups. There was no significant difference between the SMI and CEUS results, P > .05. The CEUS neovascularization grade of patients with cerebral infarction had a higher score, which was significantly different from that of patients without cerebral infarction, P < .05. The SMI neovascularization grade of patients with cerebral infarction had a higher score, which was significantly different from that of patients without cerebral infarction, P < .05.
CONCLUSION: SMI can show neovascularization in plaques, with a significantly higher grade of neovascularization in those of patients with cerebral infarction than in those without cerebral infarction.

Citation: Li M and Guo R. Study on the Consistency of Angiogenesis in Carotid Plaque Evaluated by Contrast-Enhanced Ultrasound and Superb Microvascular Imaging and Its Correlation With Stroke Occurrence. Study on the Consistency of Angiogenesis in Carotid Plaque Evaluated by Contrast-Enhanced Ultrasound and Superb Microvascular Imaging and Its Correlation With Stroke Occurrence. 2024; 43:771-779. doi: 10.1002/jum.16409

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38205964/
