PMID: 38205067
Title: Takotsubo cardiomyopathy following scorpion envenomation: a literature review.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Takotsubo syndrome is comparable to microvascular acute coronary syndrome. It may partly share the same pathophysiology debated during scorpion envenomation (SE), with an adrenergic storm, without myocardial infarction due to the absence of coronary artery stenosis. Takotsubo cardiomyopathy can help to better understand the pathophysiology of cardiac involvement during scorpion envenomation. However, Takotsubo syndrome seems to be underestimated in the literature in patients suffering from cardiac failure following SE.
METHODS: In this review, we aimed to detail all described cases, the mechanism, and outcomes of scorpion envenomation complicated by Takotsubo cardiomyopathy. We used the PubMed database by using the following keywords in MeSH research: scorpion envenomation, Takotsubo cardiomyopathy, and Takotsubo syndrome.
RESULTS: The literature analysis showed the existence of only four cases of confirmed Takotsubo cardiomyopathy following severe SE. All four patients developed a transient reversible left ventricular systolic dysfunction in the absence of coronary artery disease, following a positive history of scorpion envenomation. A cardiac MRI was performed in all cases, showing a ballooning in the left ventricle associated with a left ventricular ejection fraction in all cases. All patients were improved under symptomatic treatment, and complete recovery of the wall motion was observed.
CONCLUSION: Takotsubo syndrome, although not often reported in the literature in severe SE, can represent an effective hypothesis explaining the pathophysiology of cardiac involvement during SE. In severe scorpion envenomation, multiple mechanisms exist and can explain the development of Takotsubo syndrome. Its management is based on oxygen, with invasive or non-invasive ventilator support in patients with respiratory failure and/or cardiogenic shock. Beta-blockers, mineralocorticoid receptor antagonists, and diuretics are usually used in Takotsubo syndrome. However, in severe scorpion envenomation, all reported cases of Takotsubo cardiomyopathy are associated with cardiogenic shock and acute pulmonary edema. As a consequence, we advise the use of Dobutamine since it has already been confirmed that cardiac dysfunction following scorpion envenomation improves well and safely under Dobutamine infusion.

Citation: Bahloul M, et al. Takotsubo cardiomyopathy following scorpion envenomation: a literature review. Takotsubo cardiomyopathy following scorpion envenomation: a literature review. 2023; 13:354-362.

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38205067/
