PMID: 38213804
Title: Ophthalmic artery reversal predicts contralateral body weakness symptoms better than carotid Doppler velocity-preliminary results.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: The measurement of blood velocity in the carotid artery has been the most popular noninvasive method of identifying and classifying carotid stenosis for half a century. Carotid stenosis is an indicator of elevated risk of stroke; anatomic revascularization reduces the chance of stroke by more than half. Controversy persists on how patients with severe carotid stenosis should be selected for anatomic revascularization. Patients with a connected circle of Willis (coW) might not benefit from anatomic revascularization; patients with two segments missing in the coW are most likely to benefit from revascularization.
METHODS: Based on this analysis of data from carotid duplex examinations and transcranial Doppler examinations including ophthalmic artery (OA) direction in 28 patients, a refined carotid examination protocol is proposed. This refinement includes Doppler measurement of OA flow direction and documentation of internal carotid artery (ICA) bruit in addition to the adoption of an ICA peak systolic velocity (PSV) criterion exceeding 350 cm/s for identification of the patient most likely to benefit from carotid stenosis treatment.
RESULTS: Sensitivity and specificity of OA direction or carotid bruit are 84.6%±5.4%, 71.4%±2.1% and for PSV >350 cm/s are 84.6%±5.4%, 59.5%±2.3% for predicting contralateral body weakness.
CONCLUSIONS: The proposed examination can be performed with the same duplex scanner and scan head currently used for carotid examinations with little additional time.

Citation: Moore AE, et al. Ophthalmic artery reversal predicts contralateral body weakness symptoms better than carotid Doppler velocity-preliminary results. Ophthalmic artery reversal predicts contralateral body weakness symptoms better than carotid Doppler velocity-preliminary results. 2023; 11:408. doi: 10.21037/atm-23-1681

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38213804/
