PMID: 38217706
Title: Ultrasound imaging of male urethral stricture disease: a narrative review of the available evidence, focusing on selected prospective studies.

Abstract: PURPOSE: To synthetize the current scientific knowledge on the use of ultrasound of the male urethra for evaluation of urethral stricture disease. This review aims to provide a detailed description of the technical aspects of ultrasonography, and provides some indications on clinical applications of it, based on the evidence available from the selected prospective studies. Advantages and limitations of the technique are also provided.
METHODS: A comprehensive literature search was performed using the Medline and Cochrane databases on October 2022. The articles were searched using the keywords "sonourethrography", "urethral ultrasound", "urethral stricture" and "SUG". Only human studies and articles in English were included. Articles were screened by two reviewers (M.F. and K.M.).
RESULTS: Our literature search reporting on the role of sonourethrography in evaluating urethral strictures resulted in selection of 17 studies, all prospective, even if of limited quality due to the small patients' number (varied from 28 to 113). Nine studies included patients with urethral stricture located in anterior urethra and eight studies included patients regardless of the stricture location. Final analysis was based on selected prospective studies, whose power was limited by the small patients' groups.
CONCLUSION: Sonourethrography is a cost-effective and safe technique allowing for a dynamic and three-dimensional urethra assessment. Yet, because of its limited value in detecting posterior urethral strictures, the standard urethrography should remain the basic 'road-map' prior to surgery. It is an operator-dependent technique, which can provide detailed information on the length, location, and extent of spongiofibrosis without risks of exposure to ionizing radiation.

Citation: Frankiewicz M, et al. Ultrasound imaging of male urethral stricture disease: a narrative review of the available evidence, focusing on selected prospective studies. Ultrasound imaging of male urethral stricture disease: a narrative review of the available evidence, focusing on selected prospective studies. 2024; 42:32. doi: 10.1007/s00345-023-04760-x

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38217706/
