PMID: 38211896
Title: Simulation-based design of bicuspidization of the aortic valve.

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: Severe congenital aortic valve pathology in the growing patient remains a challenging clinical scenario. Bicuspidization of the diseased aortic valve has proven to be a promising repair technique with acceptable durability. However, most understanding of the procedure is empirical and retrospective. This work seeks to design the optimal gross morphology associated with surgical bicuspidization with simulations based on the hypothesis that modifications to the free edge length cause or relieve stenosis.
METHODS: Model bicuspid valves were constructed with varying free edge lengths and gross morphology. Fluid-structure interaction simulations were conducted in a single patient-specific model geometry. The models were evaluated for primary targets of stenosis and regurgitation. Secondary targets were assessed and included qualitative hemodynamics, geometric height, effective height, orifice area, and billow.
RESULTS: Stenosis decreased with increasing free edge length and was pronounced with free edge length less than or equal to 1.3 times the annular diameter d. With free edge length 1.5d or greater, no stenosis occurred. All models were free of regurgitation. Substantial billow occurred with free edge length 1.7d or greater.
CONCLUSIONS: Free edge length 1.5d or greater was required to avoid aortic stenosis in simulations. Cases with free edge length 1.7d or greater showed excessive billow and other changes in gross morphology. Cases with free edge length 1.5d to 1.6d have a total free edge length approximately equal to the annular circumference and appeared optimal. These effects should be studied in vitro and in animal studies.

Citation: Kaiser AD, et al. Simulation-based design of bicuspidization of the aortic valve. Simulation-based design of bicuspidization of the aortic valve. 2024; 168:923-932.e4. doi: 10.1016/j.jtcvs.2023.12.027

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38211896/
