PMID: 38218433
Title: Patterns of cortical oxygenation may predict the response to stenting in subjects with renal artery stenosis: A radiomics-based model.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Percutaneous-transluminal renal angioplasty (PTRA) and stenting aim to halt the progression of kidney disease in patients with renal artery stenosis (RAS), but its outcome is often suboptimal. We hypothesized that a model incorporating markers of renal function and oxygenation extracted using radiomics analysis of blood oxygenation-level dependent (BOLD)-MRI images may predict renal response to PTRA in swine RAS.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Twenty domestic pigs with RAS were scanned with CT and BOLD MRI before and 4 weeks after PTRA. Stenotic (STK) and contralateral (CLK) kidney volume, blood flow (RBF), and glomerular filtration rate (GFR) were determined, and BOLD-MRI R2 * maps were generated before and after administration of furosemide, a tubular reabsorption inhibitor. Radiomics features were extracted from pre-PTRA BOLD maps and Robust features were determined by Intraclass correlation coefficients (ICC). Prognostic models were developed to predict post-PTRA renal function based on the baseline functional and BOLD-radiomics features, using Lasso-regression for training, and testing with resampling.
RESULTS: Twenty-six radiomics features passed the robustness test. STK oxygenation distribution pattern did not respond to furosemide, whereas in the CLK radiomics features sensitive to oxygenation heterogeneity declined. Radiomics-based model predictions of post-PTRA GFR (r = 0.58, p = 0.007) and RBF (r = 0.68; p = 0.001) correlated with actual measurements with sensitivity and specificity of 92% and 67%, respectively. Models were unsuccessful in predicting post-PTRA systemic measures of renal function.
CONCLUSIONS: Several radiomics features are sensitive to cortical oxygenation patterns and permit estimation of post-PTRA renal function, thereby distinguishing subjects likely to respond to PTRA and stenting.

Citation: Ebrahimi B, et al. Patterns of cortical oxygenation may predict the response to stenting in subjects with renal artery stenosis: A radiomics-based model. Patterns of cortical oxygenation may predict the response to stenting in subjects with renal artery stenosis: A radiomics-based model. 2024; 26:100993. doi: 10.1016/j.jocmr.2024.100993

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38218433/
