PMID: 38211659
Title: Growth of the right ventricular outflow tract in repaired tetralogy of Fallot: A longitudinal CMR study.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Many patients with repaired tetralogy of Fallot require pulmonary valve replacement (PVR) due to significant pulmonary regurgitation (PR). Transcatheter PVR (TPVR) is an equally effective and less invasive alternative to surgical PVR but many native right ventricular outflow tracts (RVOTs) are too large for TPVR at time of referral. Understanding the rate of growth of the RVOT may help optimize timing of referral. This study aims to examine the longitudinal growth of the native RVOT over time in repaired tetralogy of Fallot (TOF).
METHODS: A retrospective review of serial cardiac MRI cardiovascular magnetic resonance (CMR) data from 121 patients with repaired TOF and a native RVOT (median age at first CMR 14.7 years, average interval between the first and last CMR of 8.1 years) was performed to measure serial changes in RVOT diameter, cross-sectional area, perimeter-derived diameter, and length.
RESULTS: All parameters of RVOT size continued to grow with increasing age but growth was more rapid in the decade after TOF repair (for minimum systolic diameter, mean increase of 5.7 mm per 10 years up to year 12, subsequently 2.3 mm per 10 years). The RVOT was larger with a transannular patch and in patients without pulmonary stenosis (p < 0.001 for both), but this was not associated with rate of growth. More rapid RVOT enlargement was noted in patients with larger right ventricular end-diastolic volume (RVEDV), higher PR fraction, and greater rates of increases in RVEDV and PR (p < 0.001 for all) CONCLUSIONS: in patients with repaired TOF, using serial CMR data, we found that RVOT size increased progressively at all ages, but the rate was more rapid in the first decade after repair. More rapid RVOT enlargement was noted in patients with a larger RV, more PR, and greater rates of increases in RV size and PR severity. These results may be important in considering timing of referral for transcatheter pulmonary valves, in planning transcatheter and surgical valve replacement, and in designing future valves for the native RVOT.

Citation: Jurow K, et al. Growth of the right ventricular outflow tract in repaired tetralogy of Fallot: A longitudinal CMR study. Growth of the right ventricular outflow tract in repaired tetralogy of Fallot: A longitudinal CMR study. 2024; 26:100002. doi: 10.1016/j.jocmr.2023.100002

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38211659/
