PMID: 38225678
Title: Findings of Angiography and Carotid Vessel Wall Imaging Associated with Post-Procedural Clinical Events after Carotid Artery Stenting.

Abstract: PURPOSE: Vessel wall imaging (VWI) for carotid plaque is better for detecting unstable carotid plaque such as intraplaque hemorrhage (IPH), lipid-rich necrotic core (LRNC), and thin/ruptured fibrous cap. However, the role of VWI before carotid artery stenting (CAS) is unclear. Thus, this study aimed to determine the findings of symptomatic carotid stenosis before CAS on angiography and carotid VWI and to evaluate the imaging findings associated with post-procedural clinical events after CAS.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: This retrospective study included 173 consecutive patients who underwent carotid VWI, CAS, and post-procedural diffusion-weighted imaging (DWI) after CAS. Findings of unstable plaque on carotid VWI and unstable findings on angiography were analyzed. We also analyzed the incidence of post-procedural clinical events, any stroke, myocardial infarction (MI), and death within 30 days of CAS.
RESULTS: Of 173 patients, 101 (58.4%) had initial ischemic symptoms and positive findings on DWI. Symptomatic patients were significantly higher in patients with IPH than in patients without IPH (62.4% vs. 45.8%, P=0.031). Degree of stenosis, thrombus of the stenotic lesion, flow delay of internal carotid artery, and flow arrest by filter thrombus had significantly higher prevalence in the symptomatic group. Twenty patients (11.6%) had post-procedural clinical events such as any stroke, clinical symptoms, and/or MI. Hyperlipidemia and intraluminal thrombus on angiography were identified as significant factors influencing post-procedural events after CAS.
CONCLUSION: An intraluminal thrombus on angiography was identified as a significant factor influencing post-procedural clinical events after CAS.

Citation: Jeon S, et al. Findings of Angiography and Carotid Vessel Wall Imaging Associated with Post-Procedural Clinical Events after Carotid Artery Stenting. Findings of Angiography and Carotid Vessel Wall Imaging Associated with Post-Procedural Clinical Events after Carotid Artery Stenting. 2024; 19:14-23. doi: 10.5469/neuroint.2023.00486

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38225678/
