PMID: 38220556
Title: MICRA AV implantation after transcatheter aortic valve replacement.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Transcatheter aortic valve replacement (TAVR) has evolved as a breakthrough therapy for patients with severe aortic valve stenosis. While TAVR has revolutionized the management of aortic valve disease, the procedure may be associated with the development of conduction disturbances requiring permanent pacemaker implantation. Traditionally, conventional transvenous pacemakers have been used to address these complications. However, the introduction of leadless pacemaker technology, such as the MICRA Transcatheter Pacing System (TPS), offers a novel alternative.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: This was a retrospective single-center study where all patients who underwent TAVR at our center and subsequently required permanent pacemaker implantation within 30 days were reviewed. We included only the patients who underwent leadless pacemaker placement. We then conducted a retrospective chart review to identify patient and procedural characteristics, procedural details, and relevant clinical outcomes.
RESULTS: A total of 9 patients were identified. All of the patients underwent MICRA AV placement within 30 days post-TAVR by an interventional cardiologist. The average age of the cohort was 79.6 years with an average STS score of 3.7 %. The majority of the patients received balloon-expandable valves (78 %). There were no procedural complications in any of the patients. At an average follow-up of 353 days, capture thresholds and lead impedance remained stable with an average RV pacing of 13 %.
CONCLUSION: This small, retrospective cohort demonstrates that the use of MICRA AV leadless pacemakers is feasible after TAVR and is associated with low periprocedural complications. Leadless pacemakers provide stable pacing thresholds and AV synchrony.

Citation: Kassab K, et al. MICRA AV implantation after transcatheter aortic valve replacement. MICRA AV implantation after transcatheter aortic valve replacement. 2024; 63:31-35. doi: 10.1016/j.carrev.2024.01.005

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38220556/
