PMID: 38227602
Title: Comparative analysis of RADAR vs. conventional techniques for AVF maturation in patients with blood viscosity and vessel elasticity-related diseases through fluid-structure interaction modeling: Anemia, hypertension, and diabetes.

Abstract: PURPOSE: This study aims to compare two surgical techniques, the standard Vein-to-Artery and the newer Artery-to-Vein (Radial Artery Deviation And Reimplantation; RADAR), for enhancing the success of Arterio-Venous Fistula maturation in end-stage renal disease patients. The impact of diseases like anemia, diabetes, hypertension, and chronic kidney disease were considered. The goals are to advance Arterio-Venous Fistula (AVF) surgery, improve patient outcomes, and contribute to evidence-based surgical guidelines.
METHODS: Fluid-structure interaction modeling was employed to investigate how hemodynamic and mechanical stresses impact arteriovenous fistula maturation, with a particular focus on the role of wall shear stress in determining maturation outcomes. The critical threshold for vessel injury was identified as wall shear stress values exceeding 35 N/m2, while stenosis formation was projected to occur at levels below 1 N/m2. This work introduced a novel approach by considering disease-related factors, including blood viscosity (anemia), and vessel elasticity (diabetes, hypertension, and chronic kidney diseases), which directly influence hemodynamics and the generation of wall shear stress. Furthermore, the model was designed to incorporate varying thicknesses and elasticities for both the vein and artery, accurately representing authentic vascular anatomy.
RESULTS: The RADAR technique has demonstrated superior performance compared to the standard technique by providing appropriate wall shear stress in critical regions and minimizing the risk of wall damage. Its use of a thicker vessel also reduces the risk of vessel injury, making it particularly effective for patients with Chronic Kidney Disease (CKD), hypertension, anemia, and diabetes, ensuring optimal blood flow and fewer complications. However, there are minor concerns about stenosis formation in hypertension and anemia cases, which could be mitigated by adjusting the anastomosis angle to be lower than 30°.
CONCLUSION: Diabetes and hypertension have significant physiological effects that increase the risks associated with arteriovenous fistula maturation. The anemic condition resulting from CKD may help reduce vessel injury but raises concerns about potential stenosis formation. Despite these co-morbidities, the RADAR technique has demonstrated its ability to induce more favorable hemodynamic changes, promoting arteriovenous fistula maturation.

Citation: Wongchadakul P, et al. Comparative analysis of RADAR vs. conventional techniques for AVF maturation in patients with blood viscosity and vessel elasticity-related diseases through fluid-structure interaction modeling: Anemia, hypertension, and diabetes. Comparative analysis of RADAR vs. conventional techniques for AVF maturation in patients with blood viscosity and vessel elasticity-related diseases through fluid-structure interaction modeling: Anemia, hypertension, and diabetes. 2024; 19:e0296631. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0296631

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38227602/
