PMID: 38223026
Title: The anatomical variations of paranasal sinuses may be related to the formation of antrochoanal polyp by computed tomography imaging study.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: There is little investigation into the connection between anatomic variations and the development of antrochoanal polyp (ACP), and the etiology of ACP remains unclear. The study aims to explore the relationship among anatomic variations, maxillary sinus volume, nasal meatus-related parameters, and the occurrence of ACP.
METHODS: There were 127 patients included in this retrospective cross-sectional study with unilateral ACPs hospitalized at Shandong Provincial ENT Hospital between February 2010 and February 2020. Evaluation indicators included anatomic variations, maxillary sinus volume, and nasal meatus-related parameters in 45 children and 82 adults, which were evaluated twice by 3DSlicer software. Parameters were assessed using the Kolmogorov-Smirnov test, followed by paired t-test and Chi-squared test for multiple comparisons.
RESULTS: Significant differences were found in the accessory maxillary ostium (AMO) and maxillary sinus retention cyst between two sides (both P<0.001). Maxillary sinus volume and sex had an association of statistical significance on adults' ACP side (P=0.026) and non-antrochoanal polyp (non-ACP) side (P=0.032). The affected side's maxillary sinus volume was significantly larger than the healthy side (P<0.001). The length from the maxillary sinus orifice to the plane of the most lateral margin of the middle turbinate of the ACP side was larger than the non-ACP side in children (P=0.044). Males' length from the maxillary sinus orifice to the plane of the most lateral margin of the middle turbinate of the ACP side was considerably greater than the healthy side (P<0.001). The length from the maxillary sinus orifice to the plane of the most lateral margin of the middle turbinate (P=0.014) and the length from the inferior turbinate to the nasal septum (P=0.013) on the non-ACP side was higher than the affected side in adults. Males' length from the inferior turbinate to the nasal septum was higher on the healthy side than the affected side (P<0.001). Males had a greater maximum length from the maxillary sinus lateral wall to the nasal septum (P=0.024) and the length from the inferior turbinate to the nasal septum (P=0.003) on the non-ACP side than females. Males had a larger maximum length from the maxillary sinus lateral wall to the nasal septum on the ACP side than females (P=0.011).
CONCLUSIONS: In our study, the occurrence of the AMO, the maxillary sinus's expanded size, and the stenosis of the associated channels around the ostiomeatal complex and common meatus are regarded as probably connected to the formation of ACPs. In addition, the anatomic variations that involve the ostiomeatal complex and may lead to a change in maxillary sinus pressure and nasal ventilation are important factors in the formation of ACPs.

Citation: Yan H, et al. The anatomical variations of paranasal sinuses may be related to the formation of antrochoanal polyp by computed tomography imaging study. The anatomical variations of paranasal sinuses may be related to the formation of antrochoanal polyp by computed tomography imaging study. 2024; 14:592-603. doi: 10.21037/qims-23-1034

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38223026/
