PMID: 38222260
Title: Assessing Potential Risks of Future Redo Transcatheter Aortic Valve Replacement in Asian Patients.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: In the Asian cohort, data are limited on the risk for coronary obstruction due to sinus of Valsalva (SOV) sequestration in redo transcatheter aortic valve replacement (TAVR) procedures.
OBJECTIVES: The aim of this study was to assess the potential risk for coronary obstruction in simulated redo TAVR in Asian patients.
METHODS: Post-TAVR computed tomographic data from 788 patients who received balloon-expandable (BE) SAPIEN 3 transcatheter aortic valves (TAVs) and 334 patients who received self-expanding (SE) Evolut R or Evolut PRO TAVs were analyzed. The risk for coronary obstruction due to SOV sequestration in redo TAVR, defined as the TAV commissure level above the sinotubular junction (STJ) and a TAV-to-STJ distance <2.0 mm in each coronary sinus, was retrospectively evaluated.
RESULTS: The potential risks for coronary obstruction due to SOV sequestration at 1 or both coronary arteries were identified in 52.1% of the BE TAV group and 71.3% of the SE TAV group (P &lt; 0.001). After adjusting for multiple covariates, STJ diameter, STJ height, TAV oversizing degree by area, and implantation depth were independently associated with SOV sequestration risk in the BE TAV group, whereas STJ diameter and implantation depth were independently associated with SOV sequestration risk in the SE TAV group.
CONCLUSIONS: Coronary obstruction due to SOV sequestration in redo TAVR may occur in a substantial number of Asian patients. This finding suggests the importance of considering the structural feasibility of future redo TAVR when implanting the first TAV, especially in Asian patients with long life expectancy.

Citation: Miyawaki N, et al. Assessing Potential Risks of Future Redo Transcatheter Aortic Valve Replacement in Asian Patients. Assessing Potential Risks of Future Redo Transcatheter Aortic Valve Replacement in Asian Patients. 2024; 4:25-39. doi: 10.1016/j.jacasi.2023.09.004

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38222260/
