PMID: 38234943
Title: Gaming on an Immersive Virtual Reality Platform to Ameliorate the Level of Anxiety in Patients Undergoing Congenital Heart Disease.

Abstract: The double outlet right ventricle (DORV) is an unusual cardiovascular abnormality that is present at birth. The pulmonary artery and the aorta, the cardiovascular system's two major arteries, link to the right ventricle in the DORV. The coronary artery links to the right ventricular, while in an ideal heart, the aorta connects to the left ventricle. DORV is an issue as the right ventricle delivers blood that is low in oxygen, subsequently distributed all around the human being. DORV is always connected with a further cardiac ailment known as a ventricular septal defect (VSD). Behavioral issues are quite prevalent in children. Emotional-obsessive-compulsive disorder, sadness, stress, social fear, and developmental problems are among them. Virtual reality (VR) is a stimulating experience that uses position tracking and three-dimensional (3D) near-eye presentation to give the participant a realistic view of a virtual environment. VR applications involve enjoyment (especially video games). A nine-year-old female complained of a tingling sensation over her right palm. She also had right-side weakness and convulsions, which were restricted to the dominant side. After investigation and evaluation of the condition, it is a known case of congenital heart defects and was planned for surgical correction. The study aims to provide information on an instance of DORV, transposition of great arteries, VSD, and pulmonary stenosis with resolved brain abscess by giving VR video games to reduce anxiety in patients undergoing an operation.

Citation: Dangare M and Yadav V. Gaming on an Immersive Virtual Reality Platform to Ameliorate the Level of Anxiety in Patients Undergoing Congenital Heart Disease. Gaming on an Immersive Virtual Reality Platform to Ameliorate the Level of Anxiety in Patients Undergoing Congenital Heart Disease. 2023; 15:e50694. doi: 10.7759/cureus.50694

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38234943/
