PMID: 38235307
Title: Construction of tissue-engineered vascular grafts with enhanced patency by integrating heparin, cell-adhesive peptide, and carbon monoxide nanogenerators into acellular blood vessels.

Abstract: Small-diameter tissue-engineered vascular grafts (sdTEVGs) have garnered significant attention as a potential treatment modality for vascular bypass grafting and replacement therapy. However, the intimal hyperplasia and thrombosis are two major complications that impair graft patency during transplantation. To address this issue, we fabricated the covalent-organic framework (COF)-based carbon monoxide (CO) nanogenerator-and co-immobilized with LXW-7 peptide and heparin to establish a multifunctional surface on TEVGs constructed from acellular blood vessels for preventing thrombosis and stenosis. The cell-adhesive peptide LXW-7 could capture endothelial-forming cells (EFCs) to promote endothelialization, while the antithrombotic molecule heparin prevented thrombus formation. The reactive oxygen species (ROS)-triggered CO release suppressed the adhesion and activation of macrophages, leading to the reduction of ROS and inflammatory factors. As a result, the endothelial-to-mesenchymal transition (EndMT) triggered by inflammation was restricted, facilitating the maintenance of the homeostasis of the neo-endothelium and preventing pathological remodeling in TEVGs. When transplanted in vivo, these vascular grafts exhibited negligible intimal hyperplasia and remained patent for 3 months. This achievement provided a novel approach for constructing antithrombotic and anti-hyperplastic TEVGs.

Citation: Fan Y, et al. Construction of tissue-engineered vascular grafts with enhanced patency by integrating heparin, cell-adhesive peptide, and carbon monoxide nanogenerators into acellular blood vessels. Construction of tissue-engineered vascular grafts with enhanced patency by integrating heparin, cell-adhesive peptide, and carbon monoxide nanogenerators into acellular blood vessels. 2024; 34:221-236. doi: 10.1016/j.bioactmat.2023.12.015

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38235307/
