PMID: 38234885
Title: Evaluation of novel biomarkers for early diagnosis of bisphenol A-induced coronary artery disease.

Abstract: INTRODUCTION: Bisphenol A (BPA), a ubiquitous synthetic monomer primarily used in the manufacture of polycarbonate plastic and epoxy resins and as a non-polymer additive to other plastics, can leach into the food and water supply and has been linked to cardiovascular disease (CVD). This study aimed to analyze BPA levels in patients with varying numbers of coronary artery stenosis and evaluate the prognostic value of new biomarkers cluster of differentiation 36 (CD36) and heart-type fatty acid-binding protein (H-FABP), compared to troponin I and creatine kinase (CK) MB, for detecting myocardial injury.
METHOD: Eighty nine patients undergoing angiography at Urmia Hospital from March 2019 to 2020 were included. Serum levels of BPA, CD36, H-FABP, troponin I, and CK-M were measured.
RESULTS: When comparing CD36 and H-FABP with troponin I and CK-MB across coronary occlusion classes, receiver operating characteristic curves indicated CD36 and H-FABP had higher accuracy than troponin I and CK-MB for detecting stenosis stages. In patients with occlusion, significant alterations were detected in age, sex, BMI, hypertension, diabetes, dyslipidemia, and smoking. BPA serum concentration significantly increased compared to normal subjects.
CONCLUSIONS: Our study revealed that serum biomarkers were valuable for prognosticating myocardial injury. Among these, CD36 and H-FABP were more accurate. BPA concentration correlated with myocardial necrosis, underlying disease, and occlusion stage, suggesting BPA's harmful effects.

Citation: Alizadeh-Fanalou S, et al. Evaluation of novel biomarkers for early diagnosis of bisphenol A-induced coronary artery disease. Evaluation of novel biomarkers for early diagnosis of bisphenol A-induced coronary artery disease. 2024; 10:e23768. doi: 10.1016/j.heliyon.2023.e23768

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38234885/
