PMID: 38234353
Title: Severe subglottic stenosis after resection of anterior mediastinal tumor using a double‑lumen tube: a case report.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Double‑lumen tubes (DLTs) are commonly used for differential pulmonary ventilation during thoracic surgery. Few reports exist on subglottic stenosis among patients who underwent surgery involving DLTs; we lack immediate postoperative period documentation leading up to the onset and subsequent recovery of subglottic stenosis. Herein, we present a case of a 75-year-old woman successfully treated for subglottic stenosis after DLT.
CASE DESCRIPTION: A 75-year-old woman presented to our hospital with an abnormal chest shadow, which was identified during a medical examination. Chest computed tomography revealed an anterior mediastinal mass with a poor contrast effect measuring 6.0 cm × 3.1 cm × 1.9 cm, which grew from 2.2 to 6.0 cm over 21 months. Low and high signals were detected on T1- and T2-weighted thoracic magnetic resonance imaging, respectively. Concordantly, a thymic cyst was suspected. The patient underwent robotic-assisted thoracoscopic resection via the right lateral approach. A 35-Fr left-sided DLT was used for intubation and differential lung ventilation. Hoarseness and stridor were observed on postoperative day (POD) 1. Laryngoscopy showed submucosal hemorrhage around the vocal cords and mild subglottic stenosis; however, there was no arytenoid dislocation or findings necessitating emergency treatment. On POD 4, her stridor became more severe and laryngoscopy was re-performed and revealed subglottic stenosis progression prompting emergency tracheotomy. The stenosis further progressed, and almost complete airway obstruction was observed on POD 7. By POD 9, partially improving the subglottic stenosis, thereafter the subglottic stenosis was almost completely alleviated by POD 12. The tracheal cannula was removed on POD 22. Trachea-cutaneous fistula closure was performed on POD 35, and she was discharged on POD 42, remaining well. The pathological examination of the anterior mediastinal tumor confirmed the diagnosis of thymic cyst.
CONCLUSIONS: Airway obstruction owing to subglottic stenosis may occur several days post-surgery with a DLT. Prompt tracheostomy is recommended to prevent complete airway obstruction in patients with progressive subglottic stenosis.

Citation: Oiwa H, et al. Severe subglottic stenosis after resection of anterior mediastinal tumor using a double‑lumen tube: a case report. Severe subglottic stenosis after resection of anterior mediastinal tumor using a double‑lumen tube: a case report. 2024; 8:14. doi: 10.21037/acr-23-92

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38234353/
