PMID: 38234342
Title: Successful one-lung ventilation in a patient after laryngectomy by inserting a long spiral single-lumen tube into the left main bronchus: a case report.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Patients who have had laryngectomy require a thorough preoperative assessment for potential stomal stenosis, and an action plan for possible inadvertent displacement of the voice prosthesis (VP) must be considered. We report the anesthetic management of a post-laryngectomy patient undergoing lung resection surgery. The patient had both a laryngectomy and a VP in situ.
CASE DESCRIPTION: A 66-year-old man with Parkinson's disease, who had previously undergone total laryngectomy for supraglottic laryngeal cancer, had a cuffed tracheostomy tube and a VP inserted into the tracheoesophageal fistula below it. He was scheduled for segmentectomy combined with lymph node dissection under combined epidural-general anesthesia due to lung cancer in the apical segment of the right lung. Following induction of general anesthesia, instead of using a double-lumen endotracheal tube, we inserted a long spiral single-lumen tube (SLT) (6 mm inner diameter, 8.7 mm outer diameter) through the tracheostoma under the guidance of a 4 mm bronchoscope because of concerns about airway injury due to the narrowed diameter of the stoma and potential dislodgement of the VP. The tube was carefully advanced and smoothly placed into the left main bronchus, and the surgery was completed using one-lung ventilation (OLV).
CONCLUSIONS: For post-total laryngectomy patients, it is important to assess the size and condition of the tracheostoma and the usage of a VP, and choose an appropriate endotracheal tube. A long spiral SLT might be an option for OLV in patients after laryngectomy with a tracheoesophageal VP.

Citation: Imai E, et al. Successful one-lung ventilation in a patient after laryngectomy by inserting a long spiral single-lumen tube into the left main bronchus: a case report. Successful one-lung ventilation in a patient after laryngectomy by inserting a long spiral single-lumen tube into the left main bronchus: a case report. 2024; 8:16. doi: 10.21037/acr-23-108

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38234342/
