PMID: 38238091
Title: Assessment of Collateral Flow in Patients with Carotid Stenosis Using Random Vessel-Encoded Arterial Spin-Labeling: Comparison with Digital Subtraction Angiography.

Abstract: BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: Collateral circulation plays an important role in steno-occlusive internal carotid artery disease (ICAD) to reduce the risk of stroke. We aimed to investigate the utility of planning-free random vessel-encoded arterial spin-labeling (rVE-ASL) in assessing collateral flows in patients with ICAD.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Forty patients with ICAD were prospectively recruited. The presence and extent of collateral flow were assessed and compared between rVE-ASL and DSA by using Contingency (C) and Cramer V (V) coefficients. The differences in flow territory alterations stratified by stenosis ratio and symptoms, respectively, were compared between symptomatic (n = 19) and asymptomatic (n = 21) patients by using the Fisher exact test.
RESULTS: Good agreement was observed between rVE-ASL and DSA in assessing collateral flow (C = 0.762, V = 0.833, both P &lt; .001). Patients with ICA stenosis of ≥90% were more likely to have flow alterations (P &lt; .001). Symptomatic patients showed a higher prevalence of flow alterations in the territory of the MCA on the same side of ICAD (63.2%), compared with asymptomatic patients (23.8%, P = .012), while the flow alterations in the territory of anterior cerebral artery did not differ (P = .442). The collateral flow to MCA territory was developed primarily from the contralateral internal carotid artery (70.6%) and vertebrobasilar artery to a lesser extent (47.1%).
CONCLUSIONS: rVE-ASL provides comparable information with DSA on the assessment of collateral flow. The flow alterations in the MCA territory may be attributed to symptomatic ICAD.

Citation: Lu S, et al. Assessment of Collateral Flow in Patients with Carotid Stenosis Using Random Vessel-Encoded Arterial Spin-Labeling: Comparison with Digital Subtraction Angiography. Assessment of Collateral Flow in Patients with Carotid Stenosis Using Random Vessel-Encoded Arterial Spin-Labeling: Comparison with Digital Subtraction Angiography. 2024; 45:155-162. doi: 10.3174/ajnr.A8100

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38238091/
