PMID: 38244290
Title: A transferable in-silico augmented ischemic model for virtual myocardial perfusion imaging and myocardial infarction detection.

Abstract: This paper proposes an innovative approach to generate a generalized myocardial ischemia database by modeling the virtual electrophysiology of the heart and the 12-lead electrocardiography projected by the in-silico model can serve as a ready-to-use database for automatic myocardial infarction/ischemia (MI) localization and classification. Although the virtual heart can be created by an established technique combining the cell model with personalized heart geometry to observe the spatial propagation of depolarization and repolarization waves, we developed a strategy based on the clinical pathophysiology of MI to generate a heterogeneous database with a generic heart while maintaining clinical relevance and reduced computational complexity. First, the virtual heart is simplified into 11 regions that match the types and locations, which can be diagnosed by 12-lead ECG; the major arteries were divided into 3-5 segments from the upstream to the downstream based on the general anatomy. Second, the stenosis or infarction of the major or minor coronary artery branches can cause different perfusion drops and infarct sizes. We simulated the ischemic sites in different branches of the arteries by meandering the infarction location to elaborate on possible ECG representations, which alters the infraction's size and changes the transmembrane potential (TMP) of the myocytes associated with different levels of perfusion drop. A total of 8190 different case combinations of cardiac potentials with ischemia and MI were simulated, and the corresponding ECGs were generated by forward calculations. Finally, we trained and validated our in-silico database with a sparse representation classification (SRC) and tested the transferability of the model on the real-world Physikalisch Technische Bundesanstalt (PTB) database. The overall accuracies for localizing the MI region on the PTB data achieved 0.86, which is only 2% drop compared to that derived from the simulated database (0.88). In summary, we have shown a proof-of-concept for transferring an in-silico model to real-world database to compensate for insufficient data.

Citation: Harnod Z, et al. A transferable in-silico augmented ischemic model for virtual myocardial perfusion imaging and myocardial infarction detection. A transferable in-silico augmented ischemic model for virtual myocardial perfusion imaging and myocardial infarction detection. 2024; 93:103087. doi: 10.1016/j.media.2024.103087

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38244290/
