PMID: 38246788
Title: Unilateral decompressive laminectomy plus fusion using unilateral biportal endoscopic technique for single-level lumbar spinal stenosis.

Abstract: PURPOSE: This study aimed to compare and analyze the effectiveness of unilateral biportal endoscopic (UBE) decompressive laminectomy plus fusion and microscope-assisted open decompressive laminectomy plus fusion.
METHODS: A total of 143 patients with lumbar spinal stenosis were enrolled in this study between March 2020 and February 2021 with a minimum 2 years follow-up visit to our hospital. Sixty-five patients underwent the unilateral biportal endoscopic technique and were assigned to the UBE group, and the remaining 78 patients with microscope assistant were assigned to the Microscope group. The baseline characteristics, clinical outcomes, and radiological data were retrospectively collected and analyzed, as well as Clinical outcomes, radiological data and complications.
RESULTS: There were no significant differences between the two groups in terms of baseline characteristics (P > 0.05). The UBE group was demonstrated to be significantly superior in CRP, drainage, blood loss, treatment cost and Hospital stay than the Microscope group (P < 0.05), whereas a significant longer operation time was observed (P < 0.05). The VAS-B, ODI, and JOA-L scores of the UBE group at 1 year follow-up were significantly greater than those of the Microscope group (P < 0.05). Regarding radiological data, there were no significant differences in the section area of the spinal canal and fusion grade between the two groups (P > 0.05).
CONCLUSION: In view of the satisfactory clinical outcomes of patients and notable decompression at the stenosed segment, UBE is a feasible, minimally invasive technique for single level lumbar canal stenosis.

Citation: Xu D, et al. Unilateral decompressive laminectomy plus fusion using unilateral biportal endoscopic technique for single-level lumbar spinal stenosis. Unilateral decompressive laminectomy plus fusion using unilateral biportal endoscopic technique for single-level lumbar spinal stenosis. 2024; 47:3457-3463. doi: 10.1016/j.asjsur.2024.01.039

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38246788/
