PMID: 38240164
Title: Atlas of Cell Repertoire Within Neointimal Lesions Is Metabolically Altered in Hypertensive Rats.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: High blood pressure has been suggested to accelerate vascular injury-induced neointimal formation and progression. However, little is known about the intricate relationships between vascular injury and hypertension in the context of arterial remodeling.
METHODS: Single-cell RNA-sequencing analysis was used to depict the cell atlas of carotid arteries of Wistar Kyoto rats and spontaneously hypertensive rats with or without balloon injury.
RESULTS: We found that hypertension significantly aggravated balloon injury-induced arterial stenosis. A total of 36 202 cells from carotid arteries with or without balloon injury were included in single-cell RNA-sequencing analysis. Cell composition analysis showed that vascular injury and hypertension independently induced distinct aortic cell phenotypic alterations including immune cells, endothelial cells (ECs), and smooth muscle cells. Specifically, our data showed that injury and hypertension-induced specific EC phenotypic alterations, and revealed a transition from functional ECs to hypermetabolic, and eventually dysfunctional ECs in hypertensive rats upon balloon injury. Importantly, our data also showed that vascular injury and hypertension-induced different smooth muscle cell phenotypic alterations, characterized by deferential expression of synthetic signatures. Interestingly, pathway analysis showed that dysregulated metabolic pathways were a common feature in monocytes/macrophages, ECs, and smooth muscle cells in response to injury and hypertension. Functionally, we demonstrate that inhibition of mitochondrial respiration significantly ameliorated injury-induced neointimal formation in spontaneously hypertensive rats.
CONCLUSIONS: This study provides the cell landscape changes of the main aortic cell phenotypic alterations in response to injury and hypertension. Our findings suggest that targeting cellular mitochondrial respiration could be a novel therapeutic for patients with hypertension undergoing vascular angioplasty.

Citation: Sun X, et al. Atlas of Cell Repertoire Within Neointimal Lesions Is Metabolically Altered in Hypertensive Rats. Atlas of Cell Repertoire Within Neointimal Lesions Is Metabolically Altered in Hypertensive Rats. 2024; 81:787-800. doi: 10.1161/HYPERTENSIONAHA.123.22057

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38240164/
