PMID: 38256474
Title: The Predictors of Incidental Durotomy in Patients Undergoing Pedicle Subtraction Osteotomy for the Correction of Adult Spinal Deformity.

Abstract: Background: Pedicle subtraction osteotomy (PSO) is a powerful tool for sagittal plane correction in patients with rigid adult spinal deformity (ASD); however, it is associated with high intraoperative blood loss and the increased risk of durotomy. The objective of the present study was to identify intraoperative techniques and baseline patient factors capable of predicting intraoperative durotomy. Methods: A tri-institutional database was retrospectively queried for all patients who underwent PSO for ASD. Data on baseline comorbidities, surgical history, surgeon characteristics and intraoperative maneuvers were gathered. PSO aggressiveness was defined as conventional (Schwab 3 PSO) or an extended PSO (Schwab type 4). The primary outcome of the study was the occurrence of durotomy intraoperatively. Univariable analyses were performed with Mann-Whitney U tests, Chi-squared analyses, and Fisher's exact tests. Statistical significance was defined by p &lt; 0.05. Results: One hundred and sixteen patients were identified (mean age 61.9 ± 12.6 yr; 44.8% male), of whom 51 (44.0%) experienced intraoperative durotomy. There were no significant differences in baseline comorbidities between those who did and did not experience durotomy, with the exception that baseline weight and body mass index were higher in patients who did not suffer durotomy. Prior surgery (OR 2.73; 95% CI [1.13, 6.58]; p = 0.03) and, more specifically, prior decompression at the PSO level (OR 4.23; 95% CI [1.92, 9.34]; p &lt; 0.001) was predictive of durotomy. A comparison of surgeon training showed no statistically significant difference in durotomy rate between fellowship and non-fellowship trained surgeons, or between orthopedic surgeons and neurosurgeons. The PSO level, PSO aggressiveness, the presence of stenosis at the PSO level, nor the surgical instrument used predicted the odds of durotomy occurrence. Those experiencing durotomy had similar hospitalization durations, rates of reoperation and rates of nonroutine discharge. Conclusions: In this large multisite series, a history of prior decompression at the PSO level was associated with a four-fold increase in intraoperative durotomy risk. Notably the use of extended (versus) standard PSO, surgical technique, nor baseline patient characteristics predicted durotomy. Durotomies occurred in 44% of patients and may prolong operative times. Additional prospective investigations are merited.

Citation: Hamouda AM, et al. The Predictors of Incidental Durotomy in Patients Undergoing Pedicle Subtraction Osteotomy for the Correction of Adult Spinal Deformity. The Predictors of Incidental Durotomy in Patients Undergoing Pedicle Subtraction Osteotomy for the Correction of Adult Spinal Deformity. 2024; 13:(unknown pages). doi: 10.3390/jcm13020340

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38256474/
