PMID: 38253637
Title: Chronic vascular pathogenesis results in the reduced serum Metrnl levels in ischemic stroke patients.

Abstract: Metrnl is a secreted protein involved in neurite outgrowth, insulin sensitivity, immunoinflammatory responses, blood lipids and endothelial protection. In this study, we investigated the role of Metrnl in ischemic stroke. Fifty-eight ischemic stroke patients (28 inpatient patients within 2 weeks of onset and 30 emergency patients within 24 h of onset) and 20 healthy controls were enrolled. Serum Metrnl was measured by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. We showed that serum Metrnl levels were significantly reduced in both inpatient and emergency patient groups compared with the controls. Different pathological causes for ischemic stroke such as large artery atherosclerosis and small artery occlusion exhibited similar reduced serum Metrnl levels. Transient ischemic attack caused by large artery atherosclerosis without brain infarction also had lower serum Metrnl levels. Metrnl was correlated with some metabolic, inflammatory and clotting parameters. Reduced serum Metrnl was associated with the severity of intracranial arterial stenosis and the presence of ischemic stroke. In order to elucidate the mechanisms underlying the reduced serum Metrnl levels, we established animal models of ischemic stroke in normal mice, atherosclerotic apolipoprotein E-knockout mice and Metrnl-knockout mice by middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAO) using intraluminal filament or electrocoagulation. We demonstrated that serum Metrnl levels were significantly lower in atherosclerosis mice than normal mice, whereas acute ischemic stroke injury in normal mice and atherosclerosis mice did not alter serum Metrnl levels. Metrnl knockout did not affect acute ischemic stroke injury and death. We conclude that reduced serum Metrnl levels are attributed to the chronic vascular pathogenesis before the onset of ischemic stroke. Metrnl is a potential target for prevention of ischemic stroke.

Citation: Miao ZW, et al. Chronic vascular pathogenesis results in the reduced serum Metrnl levels in ischemic stroke patients. Chronic vascular pathogenesis results in the reduced serum Metrnl levels in ischemic stroke patients. 2024; 45:914-925. doi: 10.1038/s41401-023-01204-5

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38253637/
