PMID: 38259609
Title: Differential expression of miRNAs revealed by small RNA sequencing in traumatic tracheal stenosis.

Abstract: Introduction: Traumatic tracheal stenosis (TTS) is a major cause of complex difficult airways, without clinically definitive efficacious drugs available. The aim of this study was to provide a general view of interactions between micro and messenger ribonucleic acids (miRNAs and mRNAs) and many potential mechanisms in TTS via small RNA sequencing. Methods: In this study, the identification of miRNAs was completed using small RNA sequencing and samples from four TTS patients and four normal control cases. By using bioinformatics tools, such as miRanda and RNAhybrid, for identifying the candidate target genes of miRNAs with differential expression in each sample, Gene Ontology and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes were employed for enriching the predicted target genes of miRNAs with differential expression based on the correspondence between miRNAs and their target genes. We detected the expression of the candidate miRNAs using quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR). Results: Twenty-four miRNAs with significant differential expression were identified, including 13 upregulated and 11 downregulated ones. Bioinformation technology was adopted to predict 2,496 target genes. These miRNA-target genes were shown to be primarily enriched in cells and organelles with catalytic activity and binding function, such as binding proteins, small molecules, and nucleotides. Finally, they were observed to process into TTS through the intercellular and signal regulation of related inflammatory signaling and fibrosis signaling pathways. QRT-PCR confirmed the upregulation of miR21-5p and miR214-3p and the downregulation of miR141-3p and miR29b-3p, which was expected to become a high-specific miRNA for TTS. Conclusion: Among all the miRNAs detected, 24 miRNAs demonstrated differential expression between the TTS and normal control groups. A total of 2,496 target genes were predicted by bioinformation technology and enriched in inflammatory and fibrotic signaling pathways. These results provide new ideas for further studies and the selection of targets for TTS in the future.

Citation: Li W, et al. Differential expression of miRNAs revealed by small RNA sequencing in traumatic tracheal stenosis. Differential expression of miRNAs revealed by small RNA sequencing in traumatic tracheal stenosis. 2023; 14:1291488. doi: 10.3389/fgene.2023.1291488

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38259609/
