PMID: 38252259
Title: Ureterocalicostomy for complex upper ureteral stricture: a narrative review of the current literature.

Abstract: Upper ureteral stricture is a relatively rare but increasingly encountered condition in clinical practice. While simple stricture can often be addressed through endoluminal treatment or surgical reconstruction, complex upper ureteral stricture poses challenges, particularly in patients with ureteropelvic junction obstruction (UPJO) or perirenal pelvic fibrosis and scarring resulting from previous surgeries. These cases present difficulties for traditional endoluminal and ureteral reconstruction treatments, posing a significant problem for many clinical surgeons. Our study involved a thorough search and comprehensive analysis of the existing literature on Ureterocalicostomy (UC). The literature indicates that UC is a safe and effective treatment for ureteral stenosis. By resecting the renal lower pole parenchyma, it is possible to achieve mucosal anastomosis between the calyceal and ureteral mucosa, leading to the restoration of normal urinary excretion. This technique has emerged as an alternative for treating complex upper ureteral strictures. However, there is a lack of direct comparative studies between open surgery and minimally invasive surgery. Our findings revealed a scarcity of relevant review documents, with most being case reports or retrospective studies conducted in single centers with small sample sizes. Therefore, it is crucial to conduct large-scale, multicenter prospective studies and long-term follow-up to validate the long-term efficacy of UC. This article reviews the development history of UC and focuses on a comprehensive discussion of its indications, surgical techniques, and complications.

Citation: Xie B, et al. Ureterocalicostomy for complex upper ureteral stricture: a narrative review of the current literature. Ureterocalicostomy for complex upper ureteral stricture: a narrative review of the current literature. 2024; 56:1899-1909. doi: 10.1007/s11255-023-03911-8

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38252259/
