PMID: 38258575
Title: AVCAPIR: A Novel Procalcific PIWI-Interacting RNA in Calcific Aortic Valve Disease.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Calcification of the aortic valve leads to increased leaflet stiffness and consequently results in the development of calcific aortic valve disease (CAVD). However, the underlying molecular and cellular mechanisms of calcification remain unclear. Here, we identified a novel aortic valve calcification-associated PIWI-interacting RNA (piRNA; AVCAPIR) that increases valvular calcification and promotes CAVD progression.
METHODS: Using piRNA sequencing, we identified piRNAs contributing to the pathogenesis of CAVD that we termed AVCAPIRs. High-cholesterol diet-fed ApoE-/- mice with AVCAPIR knockout were used to examine the role of AVCAPIR in aortic valve calcification (AVC). Gain- and loss-of-function assays were conducted to determine the role of AVCAPIR in the induced osteogenic differentiation of human valvular interstitial cells. To dissect the mechanisms underlying AVCAPIR-elicited procalcific effects, we performed various analyses, including an RNA pulldown assay followed by liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry, methylated RNA immunoprecipitation sequencing, and RNA sequencing. RNA pulldown and RNA immunoprecipitation assays were used to study piRNA interactions with proteins.
RESULTS: We found that AVCAPIR was significantly upregulated during AVC and exhibited potential diagnostic value for CAVD. AVCAPIR deletion markedly ameliorated AVC in high-cholesterol diet-fed ApoE-/- mice, as shown by reduced thickness and calcium deposition in the aortic valve leaflets, improved echocardiographic parameters (decreased peak transvalvular jet velocity and mean transvalvular pressure gradient, as well as increased aortic valve area), and diminished levels of osteogenic markers (Runx2 and Osterix) in aortic valves. These results were confirmed in osteogenic medium-induced human valvular interstitial cells. Using unbiased protein-RNA screening and molecular validation, we found that AVCAPIR directly interacts with FTO (fat mass and obesity-associated protein), subsequently blocking its N6-methyladenosine demethylase activity. Further transcriptomic and N6-methyladenosine modification epitranscriptomic screening followed by molecular validation confirmed that AVCAPIR hindered FTO-mediated demethylation of CD36 mRNA transcripts, thus enhancing CD36 mRNA stability through the N6-methyladenosine reader IGF2BP1 (insulin-like growth factor 2 mRNA binding protein 1). In turn, the AVCAPIR-dependent increase in CD36 stabilizes its binding partner PCSK9 (proprotein convertase subtilisin/kexin type 9), a procalcific gene, at the protein level, which accelerates the progression of AVC.
CONCLUSIONS: We identified a novel piRNA that induced AVC through an RNA epigenetic mechanism and provide novel insights into piRNA-directed theranostics in CAVD.

Citation: Han D, et al. AVCAPIR: A Novel Procalcific PIWI-Interacting RNA in Calcific Aortic Valve Disease. AVCAPIR: A Novel Procalcific PIWI-Interacting RNA in Calcific Aortic Valve Disease. 2024; 149:1578-1597. doi: 10.1161/CIRCULATIONAHA.123.065213

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38258575/
