PMID: 38255144
Title: Prediction of Hemodynamic-Related Hemolysis in Carotid Stenosis and Aiding in Treatment Planning and Risk Stratification Using Computational Fluid Dynamics.

Abstract: Atherosclerosis affects human health in many ways, leading to disability or premature death due to ischemic heart disease, stroke, or limb ischemia. Poststenotic blood flow disruption may also play an essential role in artery wall impairment linked with hemolysis related to shear stress. The maximum shear stress in the atherosclerotic plaque area is the main parameter determining hemolysis risk. In our work, a 3D internal carotid artery model was built from CT scans performed on patients qualified for percutaneous angioplasty due to its symptomatic stenosis. The obtained stenosis geometries were used to conduct a series of computer simulations to identify critical parameters corresponding to the increase in shear stress in the arteries. Stenosis shape parameters responsible for the increase in shear stress were determined. The effect of changes in the carotid artery size, length, and degree of narrowing on the change in maximum shear stress was demonstrated. Then, a correlation for the quick initial diagnosis of atherosclerotic stenoses regarding the risk of hemolysis was developed. The developed relationship for rapid hemolysis risk assessment uses information from typical non-invasive tests for treated patients. Practical guidelines have been developed regarding which stenosis shape parameters pose a risk of hemolysis, which may be adapted in medical practice.

Citation: Jędrzejczak K, et al. Prediction of Hemodynamic-Related Hemolysis in Carotid Stenosis and Aiding in Treatment Planning and Risk Stratification Using Computational Fluid Dynamics. Prediction of Hemodynamic-Related Hemolysis in Carotid Stenosis and Aiding in Treatment Planning and Risk Stratification Using Computational Fluid Dynamics. 2023; 12:(unknown pages). doi: 10.3390/biomedicines12010037

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38255144/
