PMID: 38259718
Title: Assessment of Myocardial Viability in Chronic Myocardial Infarction Using the Dual-Energy Computed Tomography Myocardial Extracellular Volume Fractionation Technique: A Case Report.

Abstract: Assessment of myocardial viability in patients with myocardial infarction is critical to identify residual ischemic tissue in areas of reduced function and to determine the need for revascularization. We present the case of an 80-year-old man with chest pain and a history of hypertension. Initial evaluation revealed abnormal electrocardiogram findings, and subsequent studies suggested chronic anteroseptal myocardial infarction with reduced cardiac function. Dual-energy cardiac computed tomography was performed to evaluate the coronary arteries and myocardium. Late iodine enhancement images obtained by dual-energy computed tomography showed mixed plaques and severe proximal left anterior descending artery stenosis. Conventional late iodine enhancement imaging was inconclusive, prompting extracellular volume fraction analysis using iodine density imaging. Extracellular volume fraction assessment indicated viable anterior myocardium, leading to successful coronary revascularization. Follow-up demonstrated improved wall motion and ejection fraction. Our study highlights the utility of late iodine enhancement with dual-energy computed tomography in assessing myocardial viability as a noninvasive alternative to magnetic resonance imaging, particularly in patients with contraindications to magnetic resonance imaging. This approach aids in treatment planning, evaluation of efficacy and determination of prognosis in cases of ischemic heart disease.

Citation: Mochizuki J, et al. Assessment of Myocardial Viability in Chronic Myocardial Infarction Using the Dual-Energy Computed Tomography Myocardial Extracellular Volume Fractionation Technique: A Case Report. Assessment of Myocardial Viability in Chronic Myocardial Infarction Using the Dual-Energy Computed Tomography Myocardial Extracellular Volume Fractionation Technique: A Case Report. 2024; 19:1157-1161. doi: 10.1016/j.radcr.2023.12.032

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38259718/
