PMID: 38258453
Title: The effects of percutaneous branch pulmonary artery interventions on exercise capacity, lung perfusion, and right ventricular function in biventricular CHD: a systematic review.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Branch pulmonary artery stenosis is common after surgical repair in patients with biventricular CHD and often requires reinterventions. However, (long-term) effects of percutaneous branch pulmonary artery interventions on exercise capacity, right ventricular function, and lung perfusion remain unclear. This review describes the (long-term) effects of percutaneous branch pulmonary artery interventions on exercise capacity, right ventricular function, and lung perfusion following PRISMA guidelines.
METHODS: We performed a systematic search in PubMed, Embase, and Cochrane including studies about right ventricular function, exercise capacity, and lung perfusion after percutaneous branch pulmonary artery interventions. Study selection, data extraction, and quality assessment were performed by two researchers independently.
RESULTS: In total, 7 eligible studies with low (n = 2) and moderate (n = 5) risk of bias with in total 330 patients reported on right ventricular function (n = 1), exercise capacity (n = 2), and lung perfusion (n = 7). Exercise capacity and lung perfusion seem to improve after a percutaneous intervention for branch pulmonary artery stenosis. No conclusions about right ventricular function or remodelling, differences between balloon and stent angioplasty or specific CHD populations could be made.
CONCLUSION: Although pulmonary artery interventions are frequently performed in biventricular CHD, data on relevant outcome parameters such as exercise capacity, lung perfusion, and right ventricular function are largely lacking. An increase in exercise capacity and improvement of lung perfusion to the affected lung has been described in case of mild to more severe pulmonary artery stenosis during relatively short follow-up. However, there is need for future studies to evaluate the effect of pulmonary artery interventions in various CHD populations.

Citation: Joosen RS, et al. The effects of percutaneous branch pulmonary artery interventions on exercise capacity, lung perfusion, and right ventricular function in biventricular CHD: a systematic review. The effects of percutaneous branch pulmonary artery interventions on exercise capacity, lung perfusion, and right ventricular function in biventricular CHD: a systematic review. 2024; 34:473-482. doi: 10.1017/S1047951124000015

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38258453/
