PMID: 38252278
Title: Factors influencing slippage after microsurgical single level lumbar spinal decompression surgery - Are the psoas and multifidus muscles involved?

Abstract: PURPOSE: Patients with lumbar spinal stenosis (LSS) require microsurgical decompression (MSD) surgery; however, MSD is often associated with postoperative instability at the operated level. Paraspinal muscles support the spinal column; lately, paraspinal volume has been used as a good indicator of sarcopenia. This study aimed to determine preoperative radiological factors, including paraspinal muscle volume, associated with postoperative slippage progression after MSD in LSS patients.
METHODS: Patients undergoing single-level (L3/4 or L4/5) MSD for symptomatic LSS and followed-up for ≥ 5 years in our institute were reviewed retrospectively to measure preoperative imaging parameters focused on the operated level. Paraspinal muscle volumes (psoas muscle index [PMI] and multifidus muscle index [MFMI]) defined using the total cross-sectional area of each muscle/L3 vertebral body area in the preoperative lumbar axial CT) were calculated. Postoperative slippage in the form of static translation (ST) ≥ 2 mm was assessed on the last follow-up X-ray.
RESULTS: We included 95 patients with average age and follow-up periods of 69 ± 8.2 years and 7.51 ± 2.58 years, respectively. PMI and MFMI were significantly correlated with age and significantly larger in male patients. Female sex, preoperative ST, dynamic translation, sagittal rotation angle, facet angle, pelvic incidence, lumbar lordosis, and PMI were correlated with long-term postoperative worsening of ST. However, as per multivariate analysis, no independent factor was associated with postoperative slippage progression.
CONCLUSION: Lower preoperative psoas muscle volume in LSS patients is an important predictive factor of postoperative slippage progression at the operated level after MSD. The predictors for postoperative slippage progression are multifactorial; however, a well-structured postoperative exercise regimen involving psoas muscle strengthening may be beneficial in LSS patients after MSD.

Citation: Ikeda N, et al. Factors influencing slippage after microsurgical single level lumbar spinal decompression surgery - Are the psoas and multifidus muscles involved?. Factors influencing slippage after microsurgical single level lumbar spinal decompression surgery - Are the psoas and multifidus muscles involved?. 2024; 166:26. doi: 10.1007/s00701-024-05924-3

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38252278/
