PMID: 38263535
Title: Pre-TAVI imaging: an Italian survey by the CT PRotocol optimization (CT-PRO) group.

Abstract: PURPOSE: The purpose of this survey was to evaluate the current state-of-art of pre-TAVI imaging in a large radiological professional community.
METHODS: Between December 2022 and January 2023 all members of the Italian Society of Medical and Interventional Radiology (SIRM) were invited by the CT PRotocol Optimization group (CT-PRO group) to complete an online 24-item questionnaire about pre-TAVI imaging.
RESULTS: 557 SIRM members participated in the survey. The greatest part of respondents were consultant radiologists employed in public hospitals and 84% claimed to routinely perform pre-TAVI imaging at their institutions. The most widespread acquisition protocol consisted of an ECG-gated CT angiography (CTA) scan of the aortic root and heart followed by a non-ECG-synchronized CTA of the thorax, abdomen, and pelvis. Contrast agent administration was generally tailored on the patient's body weight with a preference for using high concentration contrast media. The reports were commonly written by radiologists with expertise in cardiovascular imaging, and included all the measurements suggested by current guidelines for adequate pre-procedural planning. About 60% of the subjects affirmed that the Heart Team is present at their institutions, however only 7% of the respondents regularly attended the multidisciplinary meetings.
CONCLUSIONS: This survey defines the current pre-TAVI imaging practice in a large radiological professional community. Interestingly, despite the majority of radiologists follow the current guidelines regarding acquisition and reporting of pre-TAVI imaging studies, there is still a noteworthy absence from multidisciplinary meetings and from the Heart Team.

Citation: D'Angelo T, et al. Pre-TAVI imaging: an Italian survey by the CT PRotocol optimization (CT-PRO) group. Pre-TAVI imaging: an Italian survey by the CT PRotocol optimization (CT-PRO) group. 2024; 40:831-839. doi: 10.1007/s10554-024-03052-8

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38263535/
