PMID: 38268954
Title: Characteristics of proton pump inhibitor-resistant severe reflux esophagitis and efficacy of vonoprazan in elderly (older than 75 years) and non-elderly groups.

Abstract: BACKGROUND AND AIM: Previous studies on age differences in proton pump inhibitor (PPI)-resistant reflux esophagitis (RE) have found that stenosis and bleeding complications were significantly more common in the elderly than in the non-elderly. We sought to examine differences between two groups of elderly (75 years or older) and non-elderly (<75 years) patients with (PPI)-resistant severe RE and also the efficacy of vonoprazan (VPZ) in these patients.
METHODS: There were 14 patients in the elderly group and 15 in the non-elderly group. Information was obtained on patient background (sex, body mass index [BMI], gastric mucosal atrophy, and the presence of hernia and collagen disease), and all patients underwent the saliva secretion test and esophagogastroduodenoscopy (EGD). The saliva secretion test (amount of saliva secreted, salivary pH, and the acid-buffering capacity) was performed by chewing sugar-free gum for 3 min before EGD. The efficacy of VPZ in both groups was also assessed.
RESULTS: Saliva secretion, sex, BMI, and the presence of gastric mucosal atrophy did not significantly differ between the two groups. The number of hernias larger than 4 cm was significantly higher in the elderly PPI-resistant group, and significantly more patients had collagen disease in the non-elderly group. The efficacy of VPZ was not significantly different between the two groups; however, 10 patients in the non-elderly group had collagen disease, and 4 did not achieve esophageal mucosal healing even with VPZ 20 mg.
CONCLUSION: The number of large hernias (>4 cm) was significantly higher in the elderly group, while significantly more non-elderly patients had collagen disease. In the non-elderly group with scleroderma, the efficacy of VPZ 20 mg may not be sufficient.

Citation: Hoshino S, et al. Characteristics of proton pump inhibitor-resistant severe reflux esophagitis and efficacy of vonoprazan in elderly (older than 75 years) and non-elderly groups. Characteristics of proton pump inhibitor-resistant severe reflux esophagitis and efficacy of vonoprazan in elderly (older than 75 years) and non-elderly groups. 2024; 8:e13023. doi: 10.1002/jgh3.13023

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38268954/
