PMID: 38262253
Title: [Communication interventriculaire compliquant un infarctus de myocarde antérieur : un cas de fermeture percutanée].

Abstract: INTRODUCTION: Post-infarction ventricular septal defect (PIVSD) is one of the most serious mechanical complications of acute myocardial infarction (AMI). Over the last decade, percutaneous closure is increasingly undertaken, with results similar to cardiac surgery. We present a case of ST-elevated anterior AMI, complicated by apical PIVSD successfully treated with transcatheter closure.
CASE REPORT: An 83-year-old man was hospitalized for chest pain occurred 18 hours before, during the night time. He was an active smoker. Clinical examination revealed normal heart sounds and pulmonary bibasilar crackles. ST-segment elevation with deep T waves inversion in anterior leads were detected on the electrocardiogram. A mildly-reduced ejection fraction (40%) was found by transthoracic echocardiogram. The patient underwent emergency coronary angiography, which revealed a subocclusive stenosis of the mid left anterior descending artery with a TIMI 2 flow, treated by balloon angioplasty and drug-eluting stent. Four days after revascularization, the patient developed an acute deterioration with signs of decompensated heart failure and a new holosystolic murmur with large irradiation. Inotropic agents' administration was required to maintain a precarious hemodynamic condition. A bedside Echo revealed an apical VSD, measuring 15 × 10 mm, with left-to-right shunting, and pulmonary hypertension. The patient was scheduled for transcatheter PIVSD closure. The procedure was performed under fluoroscopic guide. Two vascular access sites were placed, femoral arterial and right internal jugular vein. Through the right internal jugular vein, a 24-mm Amplatzer atrial septal occluder on a 9 French Amplatzer TREVISIO™ intravascular delivery system was advanced via right ventricle into the PIVSD. Contrast fluoroscopy was used to assess apposition and the degree of shunt reduction before release. Echocardiographic evaluation performed 48 hours later confirmed a correct apposition of the device with insignificant residual shunt. At 6 months follow-up, he was asymptomatic, with unchanged prosthetic findings.
CONCLUSION: Percutaneous closure has been emerged as a valid cost-effective alternative to surgery and should be advised. However, debate remains on the optimal preprocedural optimization, timing of repair and modality of treatment.

Citation: Lamine H, et al. [Communication interventriculaire compliquant un infarctus de myocarde antérieur : un cas de fermeture percutanée]. [Communication interventriculaire compliquant un infarctus de myocarde antérieur : un cas de fermeture percutanée]. 2024; 73:101718. doi: 10.1016/j.ancard.2023.101718

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38262253/
