PMID: 38268683
Title: "Only fixation" in cases with failed decompression for lumbar canal stenosis - Analysis of outcome in 14 cases.

Abstract: AIM: The rationale of "only fixation" of affected spinal segments without any form of bone or soft-tissue decompression in cases with failed decompressive laminectomy for lumbar canal stenosis is discussed on the basis of an experience with 14 cases.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: During the period between 2010 and 2022, 14 patients who symptomatically worsened or did not improve following a long-segment "wide" decompressive laminectomy for multisegmental lumbar canal stenosis were identified. All patients were treated by segmental spinal stabilization aimed at arthrodesis by facetal distraction by Goel's facetal spacers (6 cases) or Camille's transarticular facetal fixation (8 cases). No bone, soft tissue, or disc resection was done for spinal or neural canal "decompression." Oswestry Disability Index and Visual Analog Scale were used to clinically assess the patients before and after the surgery and at follow-up. In addition, video recordings of patient's self-assessment of clinical outcome were used to monitor the outcome.
RESULTS: During the average period of follow-up of 71 months (range 6 months to 16 years), all patients recovered in majority of their major symptoms, the recovery was observed in the immediate postoperative period. During the period of follow-up, none of the patients complained of recurrent symptoms or needed any additional surgery. There was firm stabilization and evidences of bone fusion of the treated spinal segments in all patients. There were no infections or implant failure. No patient worsened after treatment.
CONCLUSIONS: Instability of the spinal segments is the primary issue in cases with lumbar canal stenosis and stabilization in the treatment.

Citation: Goel A, et al. "Only fixation" in cases with failed decompression for lumbar canal stenosis - Analysis of outcome in 14 cases. "Only fixation" in cases with failed decompression for lumbar canal stenosis - Analysis of outcome in 14 cases. 2023; 14:330-335. doi: 10.4103/jcvjs.jcvjs_151_23

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38268683/
