PMID: 38268020
Title: Malignant myoepithelioma of the external auditory canal - a rare case report with literature review and clinical importance of foramen of Huschke.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: A malignant myoepithelioma is a rare tumor, mostly arising from the salivary glands. Myoepitheliomas of the ear have rarely been reported. The manuscript reports myoepithelial carcinoma of the external auditory canal (EAC) spreading to the infratemporal fossa. A clinician must be aware of anatomical variation of the bony EAC wall, such as the foramen of Huschke. This rare defect may be a pathway for spreading pathologies between these two anatomical regions.
CASE REPORT: We present a case of osteoma-like stenosis of the EAC, which turned out to be an extremely rare malignant tumor. The preoperative MRI and PET/CT revealed that two parts of the tumor communicated through a defect in the antero-inferior portion of the bony ear canal. No distant metastases were detected. Subsequently, the tumor was resected from the ear canal and the infratemporal fossa en bloc. Perioperatively the defect in the EAC wall was suspected of the foramen of Huschke. After the surgery, the older scans of the patient from the past showed no presence of a congenital EAC wall defect. Therefore, the authors concluded that the tumor aggressively grew through the bone due to its biological nature.
CONCLUSION: Malignant myoepithelioma of the external auditory canal is an extremely rare condition and could be misdiagnosed as other benign lesions. In cases of suspicious lesions, it is advisable to do a probatory biopsy from the EAC. Surgery is the treatment of choice in malignant myoepitheliomas, and regular follow-ups are essential to monitor for recurrence or metastatic disease. Any mass located at the antero-inferior portion of the EAC wall warrants close evaluation due to its potential for expansion from the EAC.

Citation: Mateášiková Z, et al. Malignant myoepithelioma of the external auditory canal - a rare case report with literature review and clinical importance of foramen of Huschke. Malignant myoepithelioma of the external auditory canal - a rare case report with literature review and clinical importance of foramen of Huschke. 2024; 22:28. doi: 10.1186/s12957-024-03317-5

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38268020/
