PMID: 38273702
Title: Transcatheter management of pure native aortic valve regurgitation in patients with left ventricular assist device.

Abstract: OBJECTIVES: Aortic valve regurgitation (AR) frequently complicates the clinical course after left ventricular assist device (LVAD) implantation. Transcatheter aortic valve implantation (TAVI) has emerged as an alternative to surgical aortic valve replacement (SAVR) in this cohort with a mostly high surgical risk profile. The unique challenges in LVAD patients, such as presence of non-calcified aortic valves and annular dilatation, raise concerns about device migration and paravalvular leakage (PVL) leading to missing device success. This study evaluates procedural outcomes and survival rates in LVAD patients who underwent TAVI, emphasizing strategies to enhance device success.
METHODS: Between January 2017 and April 2023, 27 LVAD patients with clinically significant AR underwent elective or urgent TAVI at our centre. Primary end-points were procedural success rates, without the need for a second transcatheter heart valve (THV) and postprocedural AR/PVL. Secondary outcomes included survival rates and adverse events.
RESULTS: Among the cohort, 14.8% received AR-dedicated TAVI devices, with none requiring a second THV. There was no intraprocedural AR, and 1 patient (25%) had AR > 'trace' at discharge. Additionally, 25.9% underwent device landing zone (DLZ) pre-stenting with a standard TAVI device, all without needing a second THV. There was no intraprocedural AR, and none to trace AR at discharge. Among the 59.3% receiving standard TAVI devices, 37.5% required a second THV. In this subgroup, intraprocedural AR > 'trace' occurred in 12.5%, decreasing to 6.25% at discharge. In-hospital mortality was 3.7%, and median follow-up survival was 388 days (interquartile range 208-1167 days).
CONCLUSIONS: TAVI yields promising procedural outcomes and early survival rates in LVAD patients with AR. Tailored TAVI devices and pre-stenting techniques enhance procedural success. Continued research into these strategies is essential to optimize outcomes in this complex patient cohort.

Citation: Hinkov H, et al. Transcatheter management of pure native aortic valve regurgitation in patients with left ventricular assist device. Transcatheter management of pure native aortic valve regurgitation in patients with left ventricular assist device. 2024; 65:(unknown pages). doi: 10.1093/ejcts/ezae028

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38273702/
