PMID: 38279051
Title: Vascular injury activates the ELK1/SND1/SRF pathway to promote vascular smooth muscle cell proliferative phenotype and neointimal hyperplasia.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Vascular smooth muscle cell (VSMC) proliferation is the leading cause of vascular stenosis or restenosis. Therefore, investigating the molecular mechanisms and pivotal regulators of the proliferative VSMC phenotype is imperative for precisely preventing neointimal hyperplasia in vascular disease.
METHODS: Wire-induced vascular injury and aortic culture models were used to detect the expression of staphylococcal nuclease domain-containing protein 1 (SND1). SMC-specific Snd1 knockout mice were used to assess the potential roles of SND1 after vascular injury. Primary VSMCs were cultured to evaluate SND1 function on VSMC phenotype switching, as well as to investigate the mechanism by which SND1 regulates the VSMC proliferative phenotype.
RESULTS: Phenotype-switched proliferative VSMCs exhibited higher SND1 protein expression compared to the differentiated VSMCs. This result was replicated in primary VSMCs treated with platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF). In the injury model, specific knockout of Snd1 in mouse VSMCs reduced neointimal hyperplasia. We then revealed that ETS transcription factor ELK1 (ELK1) exhibited upregulation and activation in proliferative VSMCs, and acted as a novel transcription factor to induce the gene transcriptional activation of Snd1. Subsequently, the upregulated SND1 is associated with serum response factor (SRF) by competing with myocardin (MYOCD). As a co-activator of SRF, SND1 recruited the lysine acetyltransferase 2B (KAT2B) to the promoter regions leading to the histone acetylation, consequently promoted SRF to recognize the specific CArG motif, and enhanced the proliferation- and migration-related gene transcriptional activation.
CONCLUSIONS: The present study identifies ELK1/SND1/SRF as a novel pathway in promoting the proliferative VSMC phenotype and neointimal hyperplasia in vascular injury, predisposing the vessels to pathological remodeling. This provides a potential therapeutic target for vascular stenosis.

Citation: Su C, et al. Vascular injury activates the ELK1/SND1/SRF pathway to promote vascular smooth muscle cell proliferative phenotype and neointimal hyperplasia. Vascular injury activates the ELK1/SND1/SRF pathway to promote vascular smooth muscle cell proliferative phenotype and neointimal hyperplasia. 2024; 81:59. doi: 10.1007/s00018-023-05095-x

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38279051/
