PMID: 38277516
Title: Pelvic squamous cell carcinoma of unknown primary origin with hydronephrosis and ureteral stricture: A case report.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Cancer of unknown primary (CUP) is a very challenging disease, accounting for 2% to 9% of all new cancer cases. This type of tumor is a heterogeneous tumor whose primary site cannot be determined by standard examination. It has the characteristics of early metastasis, strong aggressiveness, and unpredictable mode of metastasis. Studies have shown that there is no consensus on the treatment of CUP and that there is a wide range of individual differences. In most cases, surgical removal of tumor is the most typical treatment for pelvic tumors. Herein, we report a case of a large pelvic tumor of unknown origin that had compressed the sigmoid colon and ureter and was completely removed by surgery. Postoperative diagnosis was pelvic metastatic squamous cell carcinoma.
CASE SUMMARY: A 68-year-old man with pelvic tumor who initially complained of recurrent low back pain and painful urination. The mass was initially diagnosed as a pelvic tumor of unknown origin. The patient underwent complete resection of the tumor by laparotomy. The tumor was pathologically diagnosed as squamous cell carcinoma.
CONCLUSION: Based on the treatment experience of this case, surgery alone cannot improve the poor prognosis of CUP. Since chemotherapy and immunotherapy have achieved promising efficacy in various cancers, and immunotherapy has the characteristics of low side effects and good tolerability, we recommend that patients with CUP should receive chemotherapy and/or immunotherapy for better survival outcomes.

Citation: Meng W, et al. Pelvic squamous cell carcinoma of unknown primary origin with hydronephrosis and ureteral stricture: A case report. Pelvic squamous cell carcinoma of unknown primary origin with hydronephrosis and ureteral stricture: A case report. 2024; 103:e37057. doi: 10.1097/MD.0000000000037057

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38277516/
