PMID: 38270189
Title: Impact of untreated chronic obstructive coronary artery disease on outcomes after transcatheter aortic valve replacement.

Abstract: BACKGROUND AND AIMS: In transcatheter aortic valve replacement (TAVR) recipients, the optimal management of concomitant chronic obstructive coronary artery disease (CAD) remains unknown. Some advocate for pre-TAVR percutaneous coronary intervention, while others manage it expectantly. The aim of this study was to assess the impact of varying degrees and extent of untreated chronic obstructive CAD on TAVR and longer-term outcomes.
METHODS: The authors conducted a retrospective cohort study of TAVR recipients from January 2015 to November 2021, separating patients into stable non-obstructive or varying degrees of obstructive CAD. The major outcomes of interest were procedural all-cause mortality and complications, major adverse cardiovascular events, and post-TAVR unplanned coronary revascularization.
RESULTS: Of the 1911 patients meeting inclusion, 75%, 6%, 10%, and 9% had non-obstructive, intermediate-risk, high-risk, and extreme-risk CAD, respectively. Procedural complication rates overall were low (death 0.4%, shock 0.1%, extracorporeal membrane oxygenation 0.1%), with no difference across groups. At a median follow-up of 21 months, rates of acute coronary syndrome and unplanned coronary revascularization were 0.7% and 0.5%, respectively, in the non-obstructive population, rising in incidence with increasing severity of CAD (P < .001 for acute coronary syndrome/unplanned coronary revascularization). Multivariable analysis did not yield a significantly greater risk of all-cause mortality or major adverse cardiovascular events across groups. One-year acute coronary syndrome and unplanned coronary revascularization rates in time-to-event analyses were significantly greater in the non-obstructive (98%) vs. obstructive (94%) subsets (Plog-rank< .001).
CONCLUSIONS: Transcatheter aortic valve replacement can be performed safely in patients with untreated chronic obstructive CAD, without portending higher procedural complication rates and with relatively low rates of unplanned coronary revascularization and acute coronary syndrome at 1 year.

Citation: Persits I, et al. Impact of untreated chronic obstructive coronary artery disease on outcomes after transcatheter aortic valve replacement. Impact of untreated chronic obstructive coronary artery disease on outcomes after transcatheter aortic valve replacement. 2024; 45:1890-1900. doi: 10.1093/eurheartj/ehae019

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38270189/
