PMID: 38289409
Title: Local and systemic factors associated with quantitative stiffness of carotid plaque.

Abstract: PURPOSE: Plaque stiffness in carotid artery stenosis is a clinically important factor involved in the development of stroke and surgical complications. The purpose of this study was to clarify which local and systemic factors are associated with the quantitatively measured stiffness of plaque.
METHODS: The subjects were 104 consecutive patients who underwent carotid endarterectomy at our institution. To measure quantitative stiffness of plaque, we used an industrial hard meter in the operating room within 1 h after removal of plaque. Local factors related to carotid plaque hardness were evaluated, including maximum intima-media thickness (max IMT), degree of stenosis using the European Carotid Surgery Trial (ECST), presence of ulceration or calcification, and echo brightness on preoperative carotid ultrasound. The degree of stenosis was also evaluated using the North American Symptomatic Carotid Endarterectomy Trial method in digital subtraction angiography. Age, sex, and presence or absence of hypertension, diabetes, and dyslipidemia (low-density lipoprotein cholesterol and triglyceride [TG] levels) served as systemic factors and were compared with the quantitative stiffness of carotid plaque.
RESULTS: In multivariate analysis, ECST stenosis degree, calcification, and IMT max as local factors affected plaque stiffness. As a systemic factor, plaque stiffness was statistically significantly negatively correlated with TG values in multivariate analysis (p < 0.05).
CONCLUSION: The quantitative stiffness of the plaque was negatively correlated with TG levels as a systemic factor in addition to local factors. This might suggest that reducing high TG levels is associated with plaque stabilization.

Citation: Sakaeyama Y, et al. Local and systemic factors associated with quantitative stiffness of carotid plaque. Local and systemic factors associated with quantitative stiffness of carotid plaque. 2024; 166:54. doi: 10.1007/s00701-024-05952-z

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38289409/
