PMID: 38289258
Title: Surgical management of bladder outlet obstruction due to functional and anatomical etiologies in women.

Abstract: INTRODUCTION: Bladder outlet obstruction (BOO) in women includes functional and anatomic etiologies. Primary bladder neck obstruction (PBNO), Fowler's syndrome (FS), and dysfunctional voiding (DV) are some examples of functional obstructions, whereas pelvic organ prolapse (POP), periurethral masses, and intragenic causes are some of the anatomic causes.
METHODS: This literature review describes the etiologies of female BOO, unique aspects of the workup and diagnosis, and the data for the standard surgical treatments and newer surgical techniques to treat women. Urethral stenosis and sling-related obstruction are treated in the other articles of this series. Where possible the focus is the efficacy and outcomes.
RESULTS: Treatment of PBNO using a transurethral incision of the bladder neck and injection of botulinum toxin in the bladder neck decreases the BOO. After the failure of conservative approaches, sacral neuromodulation (SNM) is effective for FS, while DV may benefit from SNM or botulinum toxin injections. Concerning POP, most surgeries have been reported to significantly improve a pre-existent BOO but the level of evidence is low. Benign urethral and periurethral masses may provoke BOO, and surgical excision usually resolves this condition.
CONCLUSION: Although most surgical treatments of BOO for functional and benign anatomical etiologies in women seem to be effective, data are scarce even for more common conditions like POP. Further studies are required to give better advice on the choice of surgical technique for these patients.

Citation: Dequirez PL, et al. Surgical management of bladder outlet obstruction due to functional and anatomical etiologies in women. Surgical management of bladder outlet obstruction due to functional and anatomical etiologies in women. 2024; (unknown volume):(unknown pages). doi: 10.1002/nau.25289

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38289258/
