PMID: 38289888
Title: Human tracheal transplantation: A systematic review of case reports.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Patients with long-segment airway stenosis not amenable to conventional surgery may benefit from tracheal transplantation. However, this procedure has been only anecdotally reported, and its indications, techniques, and outcomes have not been extensively reviewed.
METHODS: We conducted a systematic Literature search to identify all original articles reporting attempts at tracheal transplantation in humans.
RESULTS: Of 699 articles found by the initial search, 11 were included in the systematic review, describing 14 cases of tracheal transplantation. Patients underwent transplantation for benign stenosis in nine cases, and for malignancies in five cases. In 12 cases blood supply to the trachea was provided by wrapping the graft in a vascularized recipient's tissue, while in 2 cases the trachea was directly transplanted as a vascularized composite allograft. The transplantation procedure was aborted before orthotopic transplantation in two patients. Among the remaining 12 patients, there was 1 operative mortality, while 4 patients experienced complications. Immunosuppressants drugs were administered to the majority of patients postoperatively, and only one group of authors attempted their withdrawal, in five patients. At the end of follow-up, all 11 patients surviving the operation were alive, but 2 had a recurrent tracheal stenosis requiring an airway appliance for breathing.
CONCLUSION: Human tracheal transplantation is still at an embryonic phase. Studies available in the Literature report different surgical techniques, and information on long-term outcomes is still limited. Future research is needed in order to understand the clinical value of this procedure.

Citation: Verzeletti V, et al. Human tracheal transplantation: A systematic review of case reports. Human tracheal transplantation: A systematic review of case reports. 2024; 38:e15238. doi: 10.1111/ctr.15238

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38289888/
