PMID: 38280130
Title: Acquired von Willebrand syndrome and post-operative drainage: a comparison of patients with aortic stenosis versus coronary artery disease.

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: Degenerative aortic stenosis and coronary artery disease are considered to be the most prevalent cardiovascular diseases in industrialized countries. This study aims to determine the change over time in von Willebrand factor antigen, von Willebrand factor activity, and factor VIII and where there is a correlation with total post-operative drainage.
METHODS: The single-center retrospective study included 203 consecutive patients (64.5% male), undergoing coronary artery bypass surgery between March 1, 2019 and June 30, 2020 at the University Clinical Center of Serbia in the Clinic for Cardiac Surgery in Belgrade, Serbia. All patients 18 years or older who presented with isolated, hemodynamically significant aortic stenosis were included. The control group consisted of patients who presented with only coronary artery disease.
RESULTS: Between patients with only coronary artery disease and patients with coronary artery diseases and aortic stenosis, there was a statistically significant difference between pre-op and 1-month post-op fibrinogen, factor VIII, von Willebrand factor antigen, and von Willebrand factor (p < 0.001), post-op drainage, with overall lower drainage in coronary artery disease patients, and consistent increase in von Willebrand factor antigen, von Willebrand factor activity, and Factor VIII post-operatively in patients with coronary artery diseases and aortic stenosis.
CONCLUSION: This study has shown that there is a correlation between von Willebrand factor antigen, von Willebrand factor activity and total drainage to the level of statistical significance in aortic stenosis patients and in the overall study population.

Citation: Djordjevic A, et al. Acquired von Willebrand syndrome and post-operative drainage: a comparison of patients with aortic stenosis versus coronary artery disease. Acquired von Willebrand syndrome and post-operative drainage: a comparison of patients with aortic stenosis versus coronary artery disease. 2024; 72:512-518. doi: 10.1007/s11748-023-02007-5

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38280130/
