PMID: 38296841
Title: The use of core descriptors from the ENiGMA code study in recent literature: a systematic review.

Abstract: AIM: The heterogeneity in data quality presented in studies regarding Crohn's anal fistula (CAF) limit extrapolation into clinical practice. The ENiGMA collaborators established a core descriptor set to standardize reporting of CAF. The aim of this work was to quantify the use of these descriptors in recent literature.
METHOD: We completed a systematic review of PubMed and the Cochrane Library, extracting publications from the past 10 years specific to the clinical interventions and outcomes of CAF, and reported in line with PRISMA guidance. Each article was assessed for inclusion of ENiGMA descriptors. The median number of descriptors per publication was evaluated along with the overall frequency of each individual descriptor. Use of ENiGMA descriptors was compared between medical and procedural publications.
RESULTS: Ninety publications were included. The median number of descriptors was 15 of 37; 16 descriptors were used in over half of the publications while 17 were used in fewer than a third. Descriptors were more frequently used in procedural (n = 16) than medical publications (n = 14) (p = 0.031). In procedural publications, eight descriptors were more frequently used including Faecal incontinence, Number of previous fistula interventions, Presence and severity of anorectal stenosis and Current proctitis. Medical publications were more likely to include Previous response to biological therapy and Duration and type of current course of biological therapy.
CONCLUSION: With many descriptors being used infrequently and variations between medical and procedural literature, the colorectal community should assess the need for all 37 descriptors.

Citation: Khan SZ, et al. The use of core descriptors from the ENiGMA code study in recent literature: a systematic review. The use of core descriptors from the ENiGMA code study in recent literature: a systematic review. 2024; 26:428-438. doi: 10.1111/codi.16893

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38296841/
