PMID: 38295515
Title: Placement of an artificial urethral sphincter for treatment of passive urinary incontinence after inadvertent prostatectomy and balloon dilation treatment for stricture formation in a 5-month-old dog.

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: Describe the management of incontinence with several therapies, culminating with the apparently successful treatment utilizing artificial sphincter placement following an inadvertent prostatectomy.
ANIMAL: 5-month-old 7.5-kg male neutered Miniature Schnauzer.
CLINICAL PRESENTATION, PROGRESSION, AND PROCEDURES: The patient was referred for dysuria and persistent stranguria following an iatrogenic total prostatectomy and urethrectomy. An extra pelvic urethral anastomosis was performed, followed by hospitalization for 2 weeks with a urinary catheter. The patient was further investigated for persistent stranguria, and a contrast urethrogram revealed a urethral stricture at the anastomosis site, which was treated with fluoroscopic balloon dilation. The stranguria resolved, but an acute nocturnal grade 3 passive urinary incontinence occurred, which was nonresponsive to medical management of phenylpropanolamine hydrochloride and estriol. An artificial urethral sphincter was placed, leading to continence after 5 top-ups to a total volume of 0.9 mL. The patient remained continent for 5.5 weeks before abrupt incontinence recurred, which was resolved by another 0.1-mL top-up. No further signs of incontinence occurred in the 11 months following.
TREATMENT AND OUTCOME: The placement of an artificial urethral sphincter successfully managed urinary incontinence in this patient. Continence was achieved with no significant complications other than a transient loss of continence. Long-term follow-up 14 months after sphincter placement revealed that the patient had remained continent since the final sphincter top-up. The owner reported a significant improvement in the patient's quality of life following successful incontinence management.
CLINICAL RELEVANCE: This case highlighted the benefits of placing an artificial urethral sphincter in managing urinary incontinence after select cases of prostatectomy in dogs that are unresponsive to medical management.

Citation: Qin N, et al. Placement of an artificial urethral sphincter for treatment of passive urinary incontinence after inadvertent prostatectomy and balloon dilation treatment for stricture formation in a 5-month-old dog. Placement of an artificial urethral sphincter for treatment of passive urinary incontinence after inadvertent prostatectomy and balloon dilation treatment for stricture formation in a 5-month-old dog. 2024; 262:1-5. doi: 10.2460/javma.23.11.0634

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38295515/
