PMID: 38295427
Title: Revisiting the role of TEG-PM in stroke prevention by drug selection for mono-antiplatelet medication following dual-antiplatelet treatment.

Abstract: BACKGROUNDS: Dual-antiplatelet therapy (DAPT) with aspirin and clopidogrel for minor strokes or TIAs has been demonstrated in several RCTs. Whether drug selection for mono-antiplatelet therapy (MAPT) following DAPT may influence stroke recurrence has not been clarified, especially for patients with intracranial atherosclerosis stenosis (ICAS). The Thrombelastography Platelet Mapping (TEG-PM) assay claimed to be capable of monitoring platelet function secondary to antiplatelet therapy.
PURPOSE: The aim of this study was to investigate the preventive role of TEG-PM in individualized drug selection for MAPT following DAPT in patients with minor stroke or TIA.
METHODS: We retrospectively reviewed our patient database to identify individuals with minor stroke or TIA between February 2019 and July 2022. Patients were divided into ICAS and non-ICAS groups, and the efficacy and safety of TEG-PM-guided MAPT for stroke prevention after minor stroke or TIA were investigated in each group.
RESULTS: ICAS patients with TEG-PM-guided MAPT had lower rates of recurrent stroke than patients without TEG-PM guidance during a mean follow-up period of 18.1 months (6.3% vs 15.2%; p = 0.04). Patients without ICAS also tended to benefit from TEG-PM-guided MAPT with lower rates of stroke recurrence (2.6% vs 8.7%; p = 0.02). No difference in the safety outcome of any bleeding events was observed in patients with TEG-PM-guided MAPT and those without (ICAS group, 2.1% vs 3.0%; p = 0.68; non-ICAS group, 1.3% vs 2.3%; p = 0.79).
CONCLUSION: The TEG-PM could be a tangible preprocessing in drug selection for MAPT following DAPT in patients with minor strokes or TIAs, especially for those with non-stented ICASs.

Citation: Yan L, et al. Revisiting the role of TEG-PM in stroke prevention by drug selection for mono-antiplatelet medication following dual-antiplatelet treatment. Revisiting the role of TEG-PM in stroke prevention by drug selection for mono-antiplatelet medication following dual-antiplatelet treatment. 2024; 45:47-54.

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38295427/
