PMID: 38291747
Title: Exploring lncRNA Expression Patterns in Patients With Hypertrophied Ligamentum Flavum.

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: Hypertrophy ligamentum flavum (LFH) is a common cause of lumbar spinal stenosis, resulting in significant disability and morbidity. Although long noncoding RNAs (lncRNAs) have been associated with various biological processes and disorders, their involvement in LFH remains not fully understood.
METHODS: Human ligamentum flavum samples were analyzed using lncRNA sequencing followed by validation through quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction. To explore the potential biological functions of differentially expressed lncRNA-associated genes, Gene Ontology (GO) and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) pathway analyses were performed. We also studied the impact of lncRNA PARD3-AS1 on the progression of LFH in vitro.
RESULTS: In the LFH tissues when compared to that in the nonhypertrophic ligamentum flavum (LFN) tissues, a total of 1,091 lncRNAs exhibited differential expression, with 645 upregulated and 446 downregulated. Based on GO analysis, the differentially expressed transcripts primarily participated in metabolic processes, organelles, nuclear lumen, cytoplasm, protein binding, nucleic acid binding, and transcription factor activity. Moreover, KEGG pathway analysis indicated that the differentially expressed lncRNAs were associated with the hippo signaling pathway, nucleotide excision repair, and nuclear factor-kappa B signaling pathway. The expression of PARD3-AS1, RP11-430G17.3, RP1-193H18.3, and H19 was confirmed to be consistent with the sequencing analysis. Inhibition of PARD3-AS1 resulted in the suppression of fibrosis in LFH cells, whereas the overexpression of PARD3-AS1 promoted fibrosis in LFH cells in vitro.
CONCLUSION: This study identified distinct expression patterns of lncRNAs that are linked to LFH, providing insights into its underlying mechanisms and potential prognostic and therapeutic interventions. Notably, PARD3-AS1 appears to play a significant role in the pathophysiology of LFH.

Citation: Chen J, et al. Exploring lncRNA Expression Patterns in Patients With Hypertrophied Ligamentum Flavum. Exploring lncRNA Expression Patterns in Patients With Hypertrophied Ligamentum Flavum. 2024; 21:330-341. doi: 10.14245/ns.2346994.497

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38291747/
