PMID: 38292093
Title: Coil Embolization for Asymptomatic Low-grade Vertebral Artery Injury which Worsened after Cervical Decompression Surgery: A Case Report.

Abstract: INTRODUCTION: Blunt cervical injuries rarely cause vertebral artery injuries (VAIs), such as vertebral artery (VA) dissection or occlusion. To prevent subsequent embolic infarction, embolization of the injured VA is needed before surgical fixation of the cervical spine. However, evidence on endovascular treatment for asymptomatic low-grade VAIs with blunt traumatic cervical injury is insufficient.
CASE REPORT: In the present case, a 79-year-old Japanese man presented tetraparesis after falling while walking. Digital subtraction angiography showed no intimal flap and only slight stenosis of the right VA. Embolization was not performed before spinal decompression surgery for this low-grade injury. However, on the 3rd day after surgery, diffuse-weighted imaging showed dot-like high signal intensity in the right thalamus and right posterior lobe, and magnetic resonance angiography (MRA) showed near occlusion of the right VA. 8 days after surgery, MRA showed recanalization of the right VA flow. We performed VA embolization to prevent emboli scattering to the distal region during recanalization of the intracranial blood flow.
CONCLUSION: According to the relevant literature, prophylactic embolization may be indicated to prevent the embolic infarction not only in cases of VA occlusion requiring fixation of the cervical spine but also in cases of low-grade VAIs in which fixation is not required. Embolization of the VA before spinal surgery might be an aggressive treatment strategy that avoids serious embolic infarction disorder after VAIs.

Citation: Isaji T, et al. Coil Embolization for Asymptomatic Low-grade Vertebral Artery Injury which Worsened after Cervical Decompression Surgery: A Case Report. Coil Embolization for Asymptomatic Low-grade Vertebral Artery Injury which Worsened after Cervical Decompression Surgery: A Case Report. 2024; 14:63-67. doi: 10.13107/jocr.2024.v14.i01.4160

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38292093/
