PMID: 38308435
Title: Sixteen cases of laparoscopic central pancreatectomy for benign or low-grade malignant tumours in the pancreatic neck and proximal body.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: The purpose of this study is to examine and analyse the outcomes and patient experiences associated with laparoscopic central pancreatectomy.
METHODS: The perioperative data of 16 patients who underwent laparoscopic central pancreatectomy were retrospectively analysed at Ningbo Medical Center Lihuili Hospital (Xingning Branch and Eastern Branch) from September 2017 to July 2023.
RESULTS: All surgical procedures were completed without the need for intraoperative conversion to open surgery. In two cases, intraoperative cholangiography was performed, while in four cases, intraoperative fluoroscopic laparoscopic assistance was utilized. The duration of the operations varied from 160 to 360 min, with an average of 281.75 min. The estimated volume of intraoperative bleeding ranged from 50 to 300 mL, with an average of 113.75 mL. The postoperative pathology results revealed that there were two cases of intraductal papillary mucinous neoplasm, six cases of serous cystic neoplasms, one case of mucinous cystic neoplasm, five cases of solid pseudopapillary neoplasms, and two cases of neuroendocrine tumours. The maximum diameter of the tumours ranged from 3.0 to 5.0 cm, with an average of 3.67 cm. There were no instances of postoperative common bile duct stenosis or biliary leakage. Among the cases, five did not exhibit pancreatic fistula, six experienced biochemical leakage, three had grade B pancreatic fistula, and two had grade C pancreatic fistula.
CONCLUSION: Laparoscopic central pancreatectomy, as a method to preserve pancreatic function, entails specific surgical risks and a notable likelihood of postoperative pancreatic fistula, necessitating the expertise of seasoned surgeons for its execution.

Citation: Xiang J, et al. Sixteen cases of laparoscopic central pancreatectomy for benign or low-grade malignant tumours in the pancreatic neck and proximal body. Sixteen cases of laparoscopic central pancreatectomy for benign or low-grade malignant tumours in the pancreatic neck and proximal body. 2024; 94:888-893. doi: 10.1111/ans.18893

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38308435/
