PMID: 38303194
Title: [A Case of Rectal Cancer That Could Be Safely Resected by Laparoscopic Surgery, after Capecitabine plus L-OHP plus Cetuximab as Pre-Operative Chemotherapy].

Abstract: A 56-year-old woman. She was underwent a lower gastrointestinal endoscopy for bloody stool, and type 2 advanced rectal cancer was found. In CT scan, although distant metastasis is not found, the tumor has been expanded to the dorsal side. So, infiltration into the sacrum was suspected. For the risk of bleeding and residual tumor in circumferential resection surface, it was decided to perform pre-operative adjuvant chemotherapy. Because RAS gene has no mutation, the regimen chose CAPOX plus cetuximab. Although skin damage and cytopenia were observed, there was no appearance of adverse events that were intolerant, and 4 courses were performed. Although scar stenosis was observed in the endoscope after 4 courses, tumor size decreased. Even in CT, the wall thickening was significantly reduced, and progress to the tumor dorsal side was also reduced, so laparoscopic lower anterior resection was performed. During surgery, the tumor dorsal side sacral infiltration was suspected, although observed a sclerotic change, it is relatively easily peelable, it was possible to safely complete the laparoscopic operation. Even after the operation, the course was good, and it was discharged from the hospital lightly on the 12th day after the operation. In pathological diagnosis, medium-differentiated adenocarcinoma, T3, N0, histological therapeutic effect of chemotherapy was grade 2. Cetuximab combination regimen was considered to be an effective option.

Citation: Fukuda Y, et al. [A Case of Rectal Cancer That Could Be Safely Resected by Laparoscopic Surgery, after Capecitabine plus L-OHP plus Cetuximab as Pre-Operative Chemotherapy]. [A Case of Rectal Cancer That Could Be Safely Resected by Laparoscopic Surgery, after Capecitabine plus L-OHP plus Cetuximab as Pre-Operative Chemotherapy]. 2023; 50:1747-1749.

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38303194/
