PMID: 38314077
Title: A single-stage dorsal inlay buccal mucosal graft placement through subcoronal vertical sagittal ventral urethrotomy without glansplasty for reconstruction of meatal stenosis, fossa navicularis, and distal penile urethral stricture: Our initial experience.

Abstract: INTRODUCTION: Reconstruction of fossa navicularis stricture (FNS) poses a challenge in providing acceptable functional and cosmetic outcomes. We describe our novel surgical technique and its short-term results.
METHODS: This urethroplasty technique is a single-stage dorsal inlay buccal mucosal graft placement with subcoronal vertical sagittal ventral urethrotomy without glansplasty. Twenty-one operated patients were followed up at 2 months and 6 months postoperatively. We studied the functional outcome of the International Prostate Symptom Score, quality of life (QoL) score, maximum flow rate, postvoid residual (PVR) urine, and reconstructed urethral luminal caliber. Sexual function was studied via a brief male sexual function inventory. Hypospadias objective score evaluation (HOSE) was used to assess the cosmesis. Patient satisfaction was evaluated using the global response assessment score (GRA).
RESULTS: FNS is seen commonly associated with lichen sclerosus (n = 12). Nine patients had stricture that extended into the distal penile urethra. The mean stricture length was 2.76 cm. At the end of the study, a significant improvement in mean IPPS (18.81), mean QoL score (2.25), mean Q<sub>max</sub> (20.94 mL/s), mean PVR (103.05 mL), and mean urethral caliber (16.06 Fr) were noted. No difference in sexual drive and erectile function but significant improvement in ejaculation was noted. All patients had single-stream urine, reconstructed urethral caliber ≥16Fr, HOSE ≥14, and GRA ≥2 at 6 months. Except for two patients, all had vertical slit-like meatus.
CONCLUSION: This technique is feasible, with good cosmetic, functional, and subjective outcomes with marked patient' satisfaction.

Citation: Srivastava SK, et al. A single-stage dorsal inlay buccal mucosal graft placement through subcoronal vertical sagittal ventral urethrotomy without glansplasty for reconstruction of meatal stenosis, fossa navicularis, and distal penile urethral stricture: Our initial experience. A single-stage dorsal inlay buccal mucosal graft placement through subcoronal vertical sagittal ventral urethrotomy without glansplasty for reconstruction of meatal stenosis, fossa navicularis, and distal penile urethral stricture: Our initial experience. 2024; 40:49-55. doi: 10.4103/iju.iju_290_23

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38314077/
