PMID: 38313345
Title: Blood and Imaging Biomarkers in the Long-term Follow-up of Bicuspid Aortic Valve Patients.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Bicuspid aortic valve (BAV) is a common congenital heart defect. Patients with BAV are at risk for long-term complications such as valve stenosis and regurgitation. This study aimed to investigate sex differences in blood and imaging biomarkers and to describe the long-term prognostic value of blood and echocardiographic biomarkers.
METHODS: Patients were included from 2 prospective observational cohort studies; they underwent venous blood sampling and transthoracic echocardiography including speckle tracking. Analyzed blood biomarkers were red-cell distribution width (RDW), creatinine, C-reactive protein (CRP), troponin T, N-terminal pro B-type natriuretic peptide (NT-proBNP), and transforming growth factor-beta (TGF-β). Sex differences were analyzed at baseline. Associations between biomarkers and arrhythmia-free and intervention-free survival were determined by Cox regression, adjusted for age and sex.
RESULTS: A total of 182 patients with BAV were included: median age 34; interquartile range [IQR]: 23-46 years; 55.5% male. CRP, NT-proBNP, and RDW were higher in women, whereas creatinine, troponin T and TGF-β were higher among men. After a median follow-up time of 6.9 (IQR: 6.5-9.9) years, arrhythmia-free and intervention-free survival was, 81.0% and 73.1%, respectively. NT-proBNP was associated with both arrhythmia-free and intervention-free survival (hazard ratio [HR], 1.94, P = 0.005 and HR, 2.06, P = 0.002, respectively). On echocardiography higher left atrial (LA) size, left ventricular end-diastolic diameter (LVEDD), left ventricular (LV) mass index and E/e' ratio were associated with lower arrhythmia-free survival, whereas higher LA size, LV mass index, aortic valve peak velocity, and aortic regurgitation were associated with lower intervention-free survival.
CONCLUSIONS: Differences were observed in blood biomarkers between men and women with BAV. Besides LV systolic parameters, diastolic LV function and NT-proBNP should have a more prominent role as prognostic markers in clinical care.

Citation: Keuning ZA, et al. Blood and Imaging Biomarkers in the Long-term Follow-up of Bicuspid Aortic Valve Patients. Blood and Imaging Biomarkers in the Long-term Follow-up of Bicuspid Aortic Valve Patients. 2024; 6:1-10. doi: 10.1016/j.cjco.2023.09.012

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38313345/
