PMID: 38315074
Title: Our 10-Year Experience with Atrial Myxomas: Is Concurrent Valve Intervention Really Warranted?

Abstract: INTRODUCTION: Primary cardiac myxomas are rare tumors. Concurrent valvular lesion is a common finding on evaluation which is thought to be due to annular dilatation secondary to tumor movement across the valve, functional obstruction across the valve, and severe pulmonary hypertension secondary to chronic obstruction. A common belief among surgeons is that excision of myxoma leads to abatement of symptoms, and further valve intervention may not be warranted.
METHODS: A 10-year retrospective descriptive study was designed to analyze patients who underwent excision of cardiac myxoma at our center. Data was analyzed regarding presenting features, echocardiographic findings of myxoma and valve morphology, intraoperative assessment, and postoperative outcome with/without valve repair/replacement in all patients.
RESULTS: A total of 22 patients underwent surgery for myxoma. Six patients underwent successful mitral valve repair with ring annuloplasty, two had moderate mitral regurgitation, three had severe mitral regurgitation, and one patient had no mitral regurgitation on preoperative assessment, but moderate mitral regurgitation was found intraoperatively. Four of these patients had no residual mitral regurgitation in follow-up period while two had mild residual mitral regurgitation. One patient had severe mitral stenosis of concurrent rheumatic etiology and successfully underwent mitral valve replacement.
CONCLUSION: Cardiac myxomas are rare benign tumors commonly associated with mitral valve insufficiency. Mitral valve should be assessed intraoperatively after excision of mass as preoperative assessment might often be insufficient. Concomitant mitral valve intervention might be needed with a case-specific tailored approach, and mitral valve repair with ring annuloplasty offers best surgical outcome in such cases.

Citation: Potey K, et al. Our 10-Year Experience with Atrial Myxomas: Is Concurrent Valve Intervention Really Warranted?. Our 10-Year Experience with Atrial Myxomas: Is Concurrent Valve Intervention Really Warranted?. 2024; 39:e20230040. doi: 10.21470/1678-9741-2023-0040

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38315074/
