PMID: 38316674
Title: Surgical revascularization as a procedure to prevent neurological complications in children with moyamoya syndrome associated with neurofibromatosis I: a single institution case series.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: The optimal timing and surgical approach for surgical revascularization in patients with moyamoya syndrome (MMS) associated with neurofibromatosis type I (NF1) remain so far elusive. We aimed to compare the long-term clinical, radiological, and cognitive effects of different revascularization procedures in a pediatric cohort of NF1-associated MMS.
METHODS: We reviewed the clinical, radiological, and surgical data of 26 patients with NF1-associated MMS diagnosed at our institution between 2012 and 2022, at the clinical onset and last follow-up.
RESULTS: Indirect bypasses were performed in 12/26 patients (57.1%), while combined direct and indirect procedures in 9/26 subjects (42.9%); 5 patients did not undergo surgery. Through logistic regression analysis, pathological Wechsler Intelligence Scale for Children (WISC) at onset was found to be associated with symptom improvement at 1-year follow up (p = 0.006). No significant differences were found in long-term neurocognitive outcome and stroke rate in patients receiving combined or indirect bypass (p > 0.05).
CONCLUSIONS: Currently, whether combined or indirect bypass should be considered the treatment of choice in pediatric patients with NF1-associated MMS remains unclear, as well as the optimal time approach. In our series, no significant differences were found in long-term neurocognitive outcome and stroke rate between patients treated with either of these two approaches. Clinical evidence supports the crucial role of early diagnosis and surgical revascularization in subjects with MMS-associated NF1, even in case of mildly symptomatic vasculopathy. This allows to achieve a good long-term outcome with improved intellectual function and prevention of stroke and seizure in these patients.

Citation: Morello A, et al. Surgical revascularization as a procedure to prevent neurological complications in children with moyamoya syndrome associated with neurofibromatosis I: a single institution case series. Surgical revascularization as a procedure to prevent neurological complications in children with moyamoya syndrome associated with neurofibromatosis I: a single institution case series. 2024; 40:1731-1741. doi: 10.1007/s00381-024-06304-z

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38316674/
