PMID: 38316289
Title: Review of the literature supporting international clinical practice guidelines on iliac venous stenting and their applicability to Australia and New Zealand practice.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: The overall goal of this report is to provide a high-level, practical approach to managing venous outflow obstruction (VOO).
METHODS: A group of vascular surgeons from Australia and New Zealand with specific interest, training, and experience in the management of VOO were surveyed to assess current local practices. The results were analyzed and areas of disagreement identified. After this, the group performed a literature review of consensus guidelines published by leading international organizations focused on the management of chronic venous disease, namely, the Society for Vascular Surgery, American Venous Forum, European Society for Vascular Surgery, American Vein and Lymphatic Society, Cardiovascular and Interventional Radiology Society of Europe, and American Heart Association. These guidelines were compared against the consensus statements obtained through the surveys to determine how they relate to Australian and New Zealand practice. In addition, selected key studies, reviews, and meta-analyses on venous stenting were discussed and added to the document. A selection of statements with >75% agreement was voted on, and barriers to the guideline's applicability were identified. The final recommendations were further reviewed and endorsed by another group of venous experts.
RESULTS: The document addresses two key areas: patient selection and technical aspects of venous stenting. Regarding patient selection, patients with clinically relevant VOO, a Clinical-Etiologic-Anatomic-Physiologic score of ≥3 or a Venous Clinical Severity Score for pain of ≥2, or both, including venous claudication, with evidence of >50% stenosis should be considered for venous stenting (Level of Recommendation Ib). Patients with chronic pelvic pain, deep dyspareunia, postcoital pain affecting their quality of life, when other causes have been ruled out, should also be considered for venous stenting (Level of Recommendation Ic). Asymptomatic patients should not be offered venous stenting (Level of Recommendation IIIc). Patients undergoing thrombus removal for acute iliofemoral deep vein thrombosis, in whom a culprit stenotic lesion of >50% has been uncovered, should be considered for venous stenting (Level of Recommendation Ib).
CONCLUSIONS: Patients with VOO have been underdiagnosed and undertreated for decades; however, in recent years, interest from physicians and industry has grown substantially. International guidelines aimed at developing standards of care to avoid undertreating and overtreating patients are applicable to Australia and New Zealand practice and will serve as an educational platform for future developments.

Citation: Villalba LM, et al. Review of the literature supporting international clinical practice guidelines on iliac venous stenting and their applicability to Australia and New Zealand practice. Review of the literature supporting international clinical practice guidelines on iliac venous stenting and their applicability to Australia and New Zealand practice. 2024; 12:101843. doi: 10.1016/j.jvsv.2024.101843

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38316289/
