PMID: 38326576
Title: Drug-Coated Balloons for Treatment of Internal Carotid Artery Restenosis After Stenting: A Single-Center Mid-Term Outcome Study.

Abstract: PURPOSE: Endovascular and surgical treatments of stenosis of the extracranial internal carotid artery (ICA) are common procedures, yet both introduce a risk of restenosis due to endothelial hyperplasia. Drug-coated balloons (DCBs) are designed to decrease neointimal hyperplasia, however rarely used in the neurovascular setting. This study retrospectively analyzes mid-term results of DCB-treated in-stent restenosis (ISR) of the ICA.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: The medical history, comorbidities, and periprocedural data of patients receiving DCB treatment for > 50% ISR of the ICA after carotid artery stenting were analyzed. Follow-up after DCB treatment was performed with Doppler ultrasound. Suspicious cases were checked with CT- or MR-angiography and-if there was agreement between the modalities-validated with digital subtraction angiography. Potential risk factors for restenosis and differences in outcomes after PTA with three types of DCB balloons were evaluated.
RESULTS: DCB treatment was performed in 109 cases, 0.9% of which involved in-hospital major stroke; no minor strokes occurred. A total of 17 patients (15.6%) had recurrent ISR after DCB treatment, after a mean time of 30.2 months (7-85 months). Tobacco use was significantly associated with a higher incidence of recurrent ISR.
CONCLUSION: DCB angioplasty for ISR is an effective treatment that may delay and decrease restenosis. Treating comorbidities and adopting lifestyle changes may additionally help prevent ISR.

Citation: Hajiyev K, et al. Drug-Coated Balloons for Treatment of Internal Carotid Artery Restenosis After Stenting: A Single-Center Mid-Term Outcome Study. Drug-Coated Balloons for Treatment of Internal Carotid Artery Restenosis After Stenting: A Single-Center Mid-Term Outcome Study. 2024; 47:291-298. doi: 10.1007/s00270-024-03663-7

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38326576/
