PMID: 38322679
Title: Hemichorea in patients with temporal lobe infarcts: Two case reports.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Hemichorea and other hyperkinetic movement disorders are uncommon presentations of stroke and are usually secondary to deep infarctions affecting the basal ganglia and thalamus. Therefore, temporal ischemic lesions causing hemichorea are rare. We report the cases of two patients with acute ischemic temporal lobe infarct strokes that presented as hemichorea.
CASE SUMMARY: Patient 1: An 82-year-old woman presented with a 1-mo history of involuntary movement of the left extremity, which was consistent with hemichorea. Her diffusion-weighted imaging (DWI) revealed an acute ischemic stroke that predominantly affected the right temporal cortex, and magnetic resonance angiography of the head showed significant stenosis of the right middle cerebral artery (MCA). Treatment with 2.5 mg of olanzapine per day was initiated. When she was discharged from the hospital, her symptoms appeared to have improved compared with those previously observed. Twenty-seven days after the first admission, she was readmitted due to acute ischemic stroke. Computed tomography perfusion showed marked hypoperfusion in the right MCA territory. An emergency transfemoral cerebral angiogram was performed and showed severe stenosis in the M1 segment of the right MCA. After percutaneous transluminal angioplasty was successfully performed, abnormal movements or other neurologic problems did not occur. Patient 2: A 76-year-old man was admitted to our hospital for a 7-d history of right-upper-sided involuntary movements. DWI showed an acute patchy ischemic stroke in the left temporal lobe without basal ganglia involvement. Subsequent diffusion tensor imaging confirmed fewer white matter fiber tracts on the left side than on the opposite side. Treatment with 2.5 mg of olanzapine per day improved his condition, and he was discharged.
CONCLUSION: When acute hemichorea suddenly appears, temporal cortical ischemic stroke should be considered a possible diagnosis. In addition, hemichorea may be a sign of impending cerebral infarction with MCA stenosis.

Citation: Wang XD, et al. Hemichorea in patients with temporal lobe infarcts: Two case reports. Hemichorea in patients with temporal lobe infarcts: Two case reports. 2024; 12:806-813. doi: 10.12998/wjcc.v12.i4.806

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38322679/
