PMID: 38328825
Title: An interventional sheep model of severe aortic valve stenosis hemodynamics for the evaluation of alterations in coronary physiology and microvascular function.

Abstract: We aimed to develop a large animal model of subcoronary aortic stenosis (AS) to study intracoronary and microcirculatory hemodynamics. A total of three surgical techniques inducing AS were evaluated in 12 sheep. Suturing the leaflets together around a dilator (n = 2) did not result in severe AS. Suturing of a pericardial patch with a variable opening just below the aortic valve (n = 5) created an AS which was poorly tolerated if the aortic valve area (AVA) was too small (0.38-1.02 cm2), but was feasible with an AVA of 1.2 cm2. However, standardization of aortic regurgitation (AR) with this technique is difficult. Therefore, we opted for implantation of an undersized AV-bioprosthesis with narrowing sutures on the leaflets (n = 5). Overall, five sheep survived the immediate postoperative period of which three had severe AS (one patch and two bioprostheses). The surviving sheep with severe AS developed left ventricular hypertrophy and signs of increased filling-pressures. Intracoronary assessment of physiological indices in these AS sheep pointed toward the development of functional microvascular dysfunction, with a significant increase in coronary resting flow and hyperemic coronary resistance, resulting in a significantly higher index of microvascular resistance (IMR) and lower myocardial resistance reserve (MRR). Microscopic analysis showed myocardial hypertrophy and signs of fibrosis without evidence of capillary rarefaction. In a large animal model of AS, microvascular changes are characterized by increased resting coronary flow and hyperemic coronary resistance resulting in increased IMR and decreased MRR. These physiological changes can influence the interpretation of regularly used coronary indices.NEW &amp; NOTEWORTHY In an animal model of aortic valve stenosis (AS), coronary physiological changes are characterized by increased resting coronary flow and hyperemic coronary resistance. These changes can impact coronary indices frequently used to assess concomitant coronary artery disease (CAD). At this point, the best way to assess and treat CAD in AS remains unclear. Our data suggest that fractional flow reserve may underestimate CAD, and nonhyperemic pressure ratios may overestimate CAD severity before aortic valve replacement.

Citation: Minten L, et al. An interventional sheep model of severe aortic valve stenosis hemodynamics for the evaluation of alterations in coronary physiology and microvascular function. An interventional sheep model of severe aortic valve stenosis hemodynamics for the evaluation of alterations in coronary physiology and microvascular function. 2024; 136:606-617. doi: 10.1152/japplphysiol.00737.2023

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38328825/
