PMID: 38327038
Title: Successful Conservative Management of Hepatic Portal Venous Gas Following Percutaneous Endoscopic Gastrostomy: A Case Report.

Abstract: BACKGROUND Hepatic portal venous gas (HPVG) is a rare radiologic finding mostly associated with life-threatening diseases like bowel necrosis, but can also be benign; its overall mortality rate is 39-75%. In rare cases HPVG is associated with endoscopic procedures such as percutaneous endoscopic gastrostomy (PEG) placement. However, due to the rarity of this condition, there is no recommendation about its management. The aim of this case report was to describe a successful conservative management of HPVG without antibiotic administration based on the clinical presentation. CASE REPORT A 78-year-old male patient known for a history of esophageal cancer treated with radio- and chemotherapy, complicated by a post-radiation esophageal stenosis requiring a PEG tube placement 1 month prior was admitted to our Emergency Department for vomiting and abdominal pain. A contrast-enhanced abdominal CT scan showed small-bowel dilatation without obstruction, as well as gastric wall pneumatosis and HPVG. We opted for a conservative approach. The PEG was put to suction for 2 days. The clinical evolution was favorable, with resolution of abdominal pain and a restored transit on day 2. A follow-up CT scan at day 5 showed resolution of HPVG. Nutrition through the PEG was restored at day 6 without complication. CONCLUSIONS HPVG can be a benign finding after a PEG tube placement. Conservative management without antibiotics can be used in oligosymptomatic and hemodynamically stable patients after life-threatening associated diseases like bowel necrosis have been ruled out.

Citation: Carlone G, et al. Successful Conservative Management of Hepatic Portal Venous Gas Following Percutaneous Endoscopic Gastrostomy: A Case Report. Successful Conservative Management of Hepatic Portal Venous Gas Following Percutaneous Endoscopic Gastrostomy: A Case Report. 2024; 25:e942721. doi: 10.12659/AJCR.942721

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38327038/
