PMID: 38329326
Title: Sex-dependent expression of galectin-1, a cardioprotective β-galactoside-binding lectin, in human calcific aortic stenosis.

Abstract: We aimed to analyze sex-related differences in galectin-1 (Gal-1), a β-galactoside-binding lectin, in aortic stenosis (AS) and its association with the inflammatory and fibrocalcific progression of AS. Gal-1 was determined in serum and aortic valves (AVs) from control and AS donors by western blot and immunohistochemistry. Differences were validated by ELISA and qPCR in AS samples. In vitro experiments were conducted in primary cultured valve interstitial cells (VICs). Serum Gal-1 was not different neither between control and AS nor between men and women. There was no association between circulating and valvular Gal-1 levels. The expression of Gal-1 in stenotic AVs was higher in men than women, even after adjusting for confounding factors, and was associated with inflammation, oxidative stress, extracellular matrix remodeling, fibrosis, and osteogenesis. Gal-1 (LGALS1) mRNA was enhanced within fibrocalcific areas of stenotic AVs, especially in men. Secretion of Gal-1 was up-regulated over a time course of 2, 4, and 8 days in men's calcifying VICs, only peaking at day 4 in women's VICs. In vitro, Gal-1 was associated with similar mechanisms to those in our clinical cohort. β-estradiol significantly up-regulated the activity of an LGALS1 promoter vector and the secretion of Gal-1, only in women's VICs. Supplementation with rGal-1 prevented the effects elicited by calcific challenge including the metabolic shift to glycolysis. In conclusion, Gal-1 is up-regulated in stenotic AVs and VICs from men in association with inflammation, oxidative stress, matrix remodeling, and osteogenesis. Estrogens can regulate Gal-1 expression with potential implications in post-menopause women. Exogenous rGal-1 can diminish calcific phenotypes in both women and men.

Citation: Jover E, et al. Sex-dependent expression of galectin-1, a cardioprotective β-galactoside-binding lectin, in human calcific aortic stenosis. Sex-dependent expression of galectin-1, a cardioprotective β-galactoside-binding lectin, in human calcific aortic stenosis. 2024; 38:e23447. doi: 10.1096/fj.202301832RR

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38329326/
