PMID: 38320085
Title: Antioxidant and Trilayered Electrospun Small-Diameter Vascular Grafts Maintain Patency and Promote Endothelialisation in Rat Femoral Artery.

Abstract: Vascular grafts with a small diameter encounter inadequate patency as a result of intimal hyperplasia development. In the current study, trilayered electrospun small-diameter vascular grafts (PU-PGACL + GA) were fabricated using a poly(glycolic acid) and poly(caprolactone) blend as the middle layer and antioxidant polyurethane with gallic acid as the innermost and outermost layers. The scaffolds exhibited good biocompatibility and mechanical properties, as evidenced by their 6 MPa elastic modulus, 4 N suture retention strength, and 2500 mmHg burst pressure. Additionally, these electrospun grafts attenuated cellular oxidative stress and demonstrated minimal hemolysis (less than 1%). As a proof-of-concept, the preclinical evaluation of the grafts was carried out in the femoral artery of rodents, where the conduits demonstrated satisfactory patency. After 35 days of implantation, ultrasound imaging depicted adequate blood flow through the grafts, and the computed vessel diameter and histological staining showed no significant stenosis issue. Immunohistochemical analysis confirmed matrix deposition (38% collagen I and 16% elastin) and cell infiltration (42% for endothelial cells and 55% for smooth muscle cells) in the explanted grafts. Therefore, PU-PGACL + GA showed characteristics of a clinically relevant small-diameter vascular graft, facilitating re-endothelialization while preserving the anticoagulant properties of the synthetic blood vessels.

Citation: Das A, et al. Antioxidant and Trilayered Electrospun Small-Diameter Vascular Grafts Maintain Patency and Promote Endothelialisation in Rat Femoral Artery. Antioxidant and Trilayered Electrospun Small-Diameter Vascular Grafts Maintain Patency and Promote Endothelialisation in Rat Femoral Artery. 2024; 10:1697-1711. doi: 10.1021/acsbiomaterials.4c00006

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38320085/
