PMID: 38322104
Title: Coronary artery lesions in Takayasu arteritis.

Abstract: INTRODUCTION: Takayasu arteritis (TAK) is a granulomatous inflammation of vessels of large diameter, mainly affecting the aorta and its proximal branches, which is more common in young women. The incidence of coronary artery disease in TAK is unknown and not sufficiently studied.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: A literature review was performed for the period 2003 to 2023 using a search of the PubMed and Scopus scientific databases. We used the following key words to search the academic journal databases: "Takayasu arteritis", "coronary angiography", "myocardial revascularization", "coronary artery disease", "angina pectoris", and "myocardial infarction".
RESULTS: The analysis of studies showed that coronary artery lesions (CAL) in TAK are not uncommon, being identified particularly in children and young individuals. Pathology of the coronary arteries increases the morbidity and mortality of TAK patients. In TAK, the ostia and proximal segments of the coronary arteries are more frequently affected, presenting as stenosis or occlusion with the development of stable coronary artery disease, unstable coronary artery disease, acute myocardial infarction, and sudden death. The diagnosis of TAK and coronary artery pathology is often complicated due to nonspecific manifestations and frequently the absence of symptoms. The treatment of patients with TAK with CAL is challenging and requires both pharmacological therapy and interventional or surgical methods of myocardial revascularization.
CONCLUSIONS: Takayasu arteritis is a more prevalent cause of CAL development, especially in young patients, than previously believed, and cardiovascular death due to CAL is not rare. Early diagnosis of TAK with CAL, particularly occlusion or hemodynamically significant stenosis, and the prompt initiation of appropriate treatment prevent dangerous complications, reduce mortality, and improve prognosis.

Citation: Dzhus M and Mostbauer H. Coronary artery lesions in Takayasu arteritis. Coronary artery lesions in Takayasu arteritis. 2023; 61:460-472. doi: 10.5114/reum/176483

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38322104/
