PMID: 38322454
Title: Ischemic colitis induced by a platelet-raising capsule: A case report.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Ischemic colitis (IC) is also known as colon ischemia and is caused by colon vascular occlusion or nonocclusion, which results in a reduced blood supply to the colon and is not significant enough to maintain the metabolic function of cells, leading to intestinal wall ischemia. Its main symptoms include abdominal pain, diarrhea, and bloody stool. In severe cases, intestinal gangrene, peritonitis, intestinal stenosis and even intestinal obstruction may occur. IC induced by long-term use of certain special drugs is relatively rare in clinical practice. This article describes the clinical diagnosis and treatment of a typical case and provides a new treatment idea for the treatment of IC.
CASE SUMMARY: The patient was admitted to the hospital with "abdominal pain for half a month and bloody stool with mucous and pus for 3 d" and was diagnosed with "IC". Symptomatic and supportive treatment, such as antibiotics (levofloxacin), acid inhibition and stomach protection, fluid replenishment, and intravenous nutrition, was given. The patient's colonic ulcers were considered to be related to the oral administration of platelet (PLT)-raising capsules; the patient was asked to stop PLT-raising drugs for selective review via colonoscopy, and antibiotics and mesalazine enteric-coated tablets were stopped. Under the guidance of hematology consultation, 60 mg of methylprednisolone was given in combination with PLT infusion to increase the PLT. After treatment, the patient's condition stabilized, the patient's stool turned yellow, the patient's symptoms improved, and the patient was allowed to leave the hospital.
CONCLUSION: PLT-raising capsules can lead to IC, so clinicians should have a full understanding of the application of these drugs in the treatment of various causes of thrombocytopenia, weigh the advantages and disadvantages, and observe patients closely.

Citation: Wang CL, et al. Ischemic colitis induced by a platelet-raising capsule: A case report. Ischemic colitis induced by a platelet-raising capsule: A case report. 2024; 12:607-615. doi: 10.12998/wjcc.v12.i3.607

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38322454/
