PMID: 38328879
Title: Neurovascular description in the South American plains vizcacha, Lagostomus maximus (Chinchilloidea, Caviomorpha). A study involving evolutionarily related species of Caviomorpha and Muroidea.

Abstract: Oxygenated blood is required for the adequate metabolic activity of the brain. This is supplied by the circle of Willis (CoW) and the vertebrobasilar and carotid systems. The CoW ensures blood flow in case of arterial stenosis or occlusion. Different animal models have been explored for the CoW morphological and functional study. This work aims to characterize the vascular architecture of the CoW of the plains vizcacha, Lagostomus maximus (Suborder: Hystricomorpha), and to compare it with evolutionarily related species of Caviomorpha and Muroidea. The blood supply in adult plains vizcachas was studied using latex cerebrovascular casts and angiography. A caudo-rostral flow direction was determined, beginning in the spinal and vertebral arteries and converging in the basilar artery which bifurcates in the carotid-basilar communication in the caudal communicating arteries. In the first third of its course, the caudal cerebral arteries project laterally, and the middle and rostral cerebral arteries bifurcate from their rostral terminal segment, supplying the temporo-parietal and frontal cortex. The CoW architecture is mainly conserved between rodent species. Likewise, the small neurovascular variations observed could be considered phylogenetic morphological variations more than evolutionary adaptations. The absence of the rostral communicating artery that generates the rostral open architecture of the CoW in the vizcacha as in the other analyzed species, supports the need for a revision of the CoW classical function as a security system. Finally, this work supports the importance of expanding our understanding of brain anatomy among species, which may contribute to a better understanding of functional neuroanatomy.

Citation: Schmidt AR, et al. Neurovascular description in the South American plains vizcacha, Lagostomus maximus (Chinchilloidea, Caviomorpha). A study involving evolutionarily related species of Caviomorpha and Muroidea. Neurovascular description in the South American plains vizcacha, Lagostomus maximus (Chinchilloidea, Caviomorpha). A study involving evolutionarily related species of Caviomorpha and Muroidea. 2024; 307:658-668. doi: 10.1002/ar.25318

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38328879/
