PMID: 38320869
Title: A Case Report of Concurrent Transplant Renal Artery Stenosis, Renal Cell Carcinoma, and Papillary Thyroid Cancer After Renal Transplantation: A Literature Review.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Kidney transplantation is the preferred treatment option for eligible patients with end-stage renal disease. With advanced transplantation technology and novel immunosuppressive agents, kidney transplant recipients survive significantly longer. However, the chance of developing malignant tumors has increased, posing a serious challenge to the survival of transplanted kidneys and patients.
CASE PRESENTATION: We report a male patient (the patient's informed consent has been obtained) who underwent kidney transplantation 23 years ago. Subsequently, he developed transplant renal artery stenosis, primary renal clear cell carcinoma, and papillary thyroid cancer. The narrowed blood vessels were dilated through percutaneous transluminal angioplasty, and the malignant tumor was removed surgically. Currently, antirejection drugs are regularly taken, and the transplanted kidney function is good. The patient is satisfied with his living conditions.
CONCLUSIONS: Hypertension that is difficult to control after kidney transplantation should be suspected as a possibility of graft vascular stenosis. When B-ultrasound cannot accurately diagnose it, magnetic resonance angiography should be used as early as possible to clarify the diagnosis and relieve the stenosis before graft dysfunction. Transplantation patients have a high incidence of malignant tumors after surgery, and the risk increases with the prolongation of the disease course. The focus should be on symptomatic treatment of related diseases, and antirejection drugs can be reduced or not reduced as appropriate.

Citation: Chen Q, et al. A Case Report of Concurrent Transplant Renal Artery Stenosis, Renal Cell Carcinoma, and Papillary Thyroid Cancer After Renal Transplantation: A Literature Review. A Case Report of Concurrent Transplant Renal Artery Stenosis, Renal Cell Carcinoma, and Papillary Thyroid Cancer After Renal Transplantation: A Literature Review. 2024; 56:734-737. doi: 10.1016/j.transproceed.2024.01.045

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38320869/
