PMID: 38342097
Title: The Wound Healing of Autologous Regenerative Factor on Recurrent Benign Airway Stenosis: A Canine Experimental and Pilot Study.

Abstract: INTRODUCTION: Benign airway stenosis (BAS) is a severe pathologic condition. Complex stenosis has a high recurrence rate and requires repeated bronchoscopic interventions for achieving optimal control, leading to recurrent BAS (RBAS) due to intraluminal granulation.
METHODS: This study explored the potential of autologous regenerative factor (ARF) for treating RBAS using a post-intubation tracheal stenosis canine model. Bronchoscopic follow-ups were conducted, and RNA-seq analysis of airway tissue was performed. A clinical study was also initiated involving 17 patients with recurrent airway stenosis.
RESULTS: In the animal model, ARF demonstrated significant effectiveness in preventing further collapse of the injured airway, maintaining airway patency and promoting tissue regeneration. RNA-seq results showed differential gene expression, signifying alterations in cellular components and signaling pathways. The clinical study found that ARF treatment was well-tolerated by patients with no severe adverse events requiring hospitalization. ARF treatment yielded a high response rate, especially for post-intubation tracheal stenosis and idiopathic tracheal stenosis patients.
CONCLUSION: The study concludes that ARF presents a promising, effective, and less-invasive method for treating RBAS. ARF has shown potential in prolonging the intermittent period and reducing treatment failure in patients with recurrent tracheal stenosis by facilitating tracheal mucosal wound repair and ameliorating tracheal fibrosis. This novel approach could significantly impact future clinical applications.

Citation: Chen X, et al. The Wound Healing of Autologous Regenerative Factor on Recurrent Benign Airway Stenosis: A Canine Experimental and Pilot Study. The Wound Healing of Autologous Regenerative Factor on Recurrent Benign Airway Stenosis: A Canine Experimental and Pilot Study. 2024; 103:111-123. doi: 10.1159/000536007

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38342097/
