PMID: 38344078
Title: Perspective: Efficacy and outcomes for different lumbar interspinous devices (ISD) vs. open surgery to treat lumbar spinal stenosis (LSS).

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Interspinous devices (ISD) constitute a minimally invasive (MI) alternative to open surgery (i.e., laminectomy/decompression with/without fusion (i.e., posterior lumbar interbody fusion (PLIF)/posterolateral instrumented fusion (PLF)) for treating lumbar spinal stenosis (LSS). Biomechanically, static and/or dynamic ISD "offload" pressure on the disc space, increase intervertebral foraminal/disc space heights, reverse/preserve lordosis, limit range of motion (ROM)/stabilize the surgical level, and reduce adjacent segment disease (ASD). Other benefits reported in the literature included; reduced operative time (OR Time), length of hospital stay (LOS), estimated blood loss (EBL), and improved outcomes (i.e., ODI (Oswestry Disability Index), VAS (Visual Analog Scale), and/or SF-36 (Short-Form 36)).
METHODS: Various studies documented the relative efficacy and outcomes of original (i.e., Wallis), current (i.e., X-STOP, Wallis, DIAM, Aperius PercLID), and new generation (i.e., Coflex, Superion Helifix, In-Space) ISD used to treat LSS vs. open surgery.
RESULTS: Although ISD overall resulted in comparable or improved outcomes vs. open surgery, the newer generation ISD provided the greatest reductions in critical cost-saving parameters (i.e., OR time, LOS, and lower reoperation rates of 3.7% for Coflex vs. 11.1% for original/current ISD) vs. original/current ISD and open surgery. Further, the 5-year postoperative study showed the average cost of new generation Coflex ISD/decompressions was $15,182, or $11,681 lower than the average $26,863 amount for PLF.
CONCLUSION: Patients undergoing new generation ISD for LSS exhibited comparable or better outcomes, but greater reductions in OR times, EBL, LOS, ROM, and ASD vs. those receiving original/current ISD or undergoing open surgery.

Citation: Epstein NE and Agulnick MA. Perspective: Efficacy and outcomes for different lumbar interspinous devices (ISD) vs. open surgery to treat lumbar spinal stenosis (LSS). Perspective: Efficacy and outcomes for different lumbar interspinous devices (ISD) vs. open surgery to treat lumbar spinal stenosis (LSS). 2024; 15:17. doi: 10.25259/SNI_1007_2023

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38344078/
