PMID: 38345023
Title: Single dartos flap versus double dartos flap in hypospadias repair: A systematic review and meta-analysis with trial sequential analysis and fragility index.

Abstract: INTRODUCTION: Hypospadias is a common congenital urogenital anomaly. Despite advancements in surgical techniques, still it presents challenges in management. An important aspect of hypospadias repair is the use of protective layers to cover neourethra. This review focuses on comparing the Single Dartos Flap (SDF) and Double Dartos Flap (DDF) techniques, used to cover the neourethra. These techniques differ in terms of the number of dartos layers used to cover the neourethra.
METHODS: This systematic review, follows PRISMA guidelines, included six RCTs from PubMed/MEDLINE, Cochrane Library, Scopus, Web of Science, and CINAHL. Patients with hypospadias repair with use of SDF or DDF were analyzed for outcome, Urethrocutaneous fistula, meatal stenosis, glans dehiscence, penile torsion and cosmetic outcomes. Statistical analysis was done using Review Manager, with TSA and FI ensuring result robustness.
RESULTS: Six studies met inclusion criteria, and risk of bias assessment indicated low risk across all domains. Meta-analysis results favored DDF over SDF for reducing urethrocutaneous fistula (RR 0.37, 95% CI 0.20-0.68) but showed no significant difference in meatal stenosis and glans dehiscence. DDF also associated with lower risk of penile torsion (RR 0.05, 95% CI 0.01-0.35).
CONCLUSION: The systematic review, based on randomized controlled trials (RCTs), provides evidence supporting the use of DDF over SDF in hypospadias repair, particularly in distal hypospadias using the TIP procedure. The article emphasizes the potential advantages of DDF in reducing UCF but further robust evidence is needed to confirm these results based on the findings of TSA and FI.

Citation: Borkar N, et al. Single dartos flap versus double dartos flap in hypospadias repair: A systematic review and meta-analysis with trial sequential analysis and fragility index. Single dartos flap versus double dartos flap in hypospadias repair: A systematic review and meta-analysis with trial sequential analysis and fragility index. 2024; 91:439-447. doi: 10.1177/03915603241231058

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38345023/
