PMID: 38356844
Title: predictive model of nosocomial infection in patients with upper urinary tract stones after flexible ureterorenoscopy with laser lithotripsy: A retrospective study.

Abstract: OBJECTIVES: To construct a predictive model of nosocomial infection in patients with upper urinary tract (UUT) stones after flexible ureterorenoscopy with laser lithotripsy (FURSLL).
METHODS: Medical records of 196 patients with UUT stones who underwent FURSLL in Suzhou Hospital of Integrated Traditional Chinese and Western Medicine from December 2019 to December 2022 were retrospectively analyzed. Patients were divided into infected group or uninfected group based on the presence of infection during postoperative hospitalization. Univariate and multivariate logistic regressions were used to identify risk factors of postoperative nosocomial infections. A nomogram prediction model was constructed using R software. The predictive ability of the model was assessed using the receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve.
RESULTS: A total of 54 patients (27.6%) developed nosocomial infections after FURSLL. Logistic regression analysis showed that older age, diabetes, preoperative urinary system infection, ureteral stricture, hydronephrosis, double J-stent retention time, and stone diameter were risk factors of nosocomial infection. The nomogram model was constructed based on these risk factors. The ROC showed that the area under the curve (AUC) of the model was 0.930 (95% CI: 0.890-0.970), and the sensitivity and specificity were 92.6% and 81.7%, respectively, indicating that the prediction model was effective.
CONCLUSIONS: Risk of nosocomial infection in patients with UUT stones after FURSLL is affected by older age, diabetes, preoperative urinary system infection, ureteral stenosis, hydronephrosis, double J-stent retention time, and stone diameter. The nomogram prediction model, constructed based on the above factors, has good predictive value.

Citation: Xu Y and Xu P. predictive model of nosocomial infection in patients with upper urinary tract stones after flexible ureterorenoscopy with laser lithotripsy: A retrospective study. predictive model of nosocomial infection in patients with upper urinary tract stones after flexible ureterorenoscopy with laser lithotripsy: A retrospective study. 2024; 40:394-398. doi: 10.12669/pjms.40.3.8855

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38356844/
