PMID: 38358535
Title: Laparoscopic median arcuate ligament section for median arcuate ligament compression syndrome initially detected as splenic infarction: a case report.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Median arcuate ligament compression syndrome (MALS) causes upper abdominal pain and at times hemodynamic abnormalities in the pancreaticoduodenal region. Herein, we present a case of a 70 year-old man, initially diagnosed with splenic infarction and was successfully treated laparoscopically.
CASE PRESENTATION: A 70-year-old man with abdominal pain admitted to our hospital. Abdominal-enhanced computed tomography revealed a poorly contrasted area in the spleen and stenosis at the root of the celiac artery. Arterial dilatation was observed around the pancreaticoduodenal arcade, however, no obvious aneurysm formation or arterial dissection was observed. Abdominal-enhanced magnetic resonance imaging indicated the disappearance of the flow void at the root of the celiac artery. The patient had no history of atrial fibrillation and was diagnosed with splenic infarction due to median arcuate ligament compression syndrome. We performed a laparoscopic median arcuate ligament section with five ports. Intraoperative ultrasonography showed a retrograde blood flow in the common hepatic artery and the celiac artery. After releasing the compression, the antegrade blood flow from the celiac artery to the splenic artery, and the common hepatic artery were visualized using intraoperative ultrasonography. The postoperative course of the patient was uneventful, and he was discharged on postoperative day 9. Postoperative computed tomography a month after surgery revealed no residual stenosis of the celiac artery or dilation of the pancreaticoduodenal arcade. Furthermore, the poorly contrasted area of the spleen improved.
CONCLUSIONS: Reports indicate that hemodynamic changes in the abdominal visceral arteries due to median arcuate ligament compression are related to the formation of pancreaticoduodenal aneurysms. In this case, median arcuate ligament compression syndrome caused splenic infarction by reducing blood flow to the splenic artery.

Citation: Takagi T, et al. Laparoscopic median arcuate ligament section for median arcuate ligament compression syndrome initially detected as splenic infarction: a case report. Laparoscopic median arcuate ligament section for median arcuate ligament compression syndrome initially detected as splenic infarction: a case report. 2024; 10:41. doi: 10.1186/s40792-024-01817-w

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38358535/
