PMID: 38351135
Title: Sagittal imbalance syndrome, a new concept, helps determining a long fusion for patients with degenerative lumbar spinal stenosis and severe global sagittal imbalance.

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: To retrospectively investigate the postoperative clinical and radiographic outcomes in elderly patients with degenerative lumbar spinal stenosis (DLSS) and severe global sagittal imbalance who underwent different fusion levels.
METHODS: A total of 214 patients with DLSS and severe global sagittal imbalance were included. Sagittal imbalance syndrome was defined as the severe decompensated radiographic global sagittal imbalance accompanied with the following symptoms: severe back pain in naturel posture that disappears or significantly relieves in support position, living disability with ODI score > 40% and dynamic sagittal imbalance. Thereinto, 54 patients were found with sagittal imbalance syndrome and were performed the lumbar decompression with a long thoracolumbar fusion (Group A) or a short lumbar fusion (Group B). Thirty patients without sagittal imbalance syndrome who underwent short lumbar decompression and fusion were selected as the control (Group C).
RESULTS: Patients with sagittal imbalance syndrome were detected to have more paraspinal muscle degeneration and less compensatory potentials for sagittal imbalance (smaller thoracic kyphosis and larger pelvic tilt) than those without this diagnosis. Postoperative comparisons revealed significant restoration of global sagittal alignment and balance and improvement of living quality in Groups A and C at the final follow-up. Six patients in Group B and one in Group A were found to have proximal junctional complication during follow-up.
CONCLUSION: Our results indicated that DLSS patients with sagittal imbalance syndrome had inferior surgical outcomes in terms of living quality and proximal junctional complication after lumbar decompression with a short fusion.

Citation: Lu S, et al. Sagittal imbalance syndrome, a new concept, helps determining a long fusion for patients with degenerative lumbar spinal stenosis and severe global sagittal imbalance. Sagittal imbalance syndrome, a new concept, helps determining a long fusion for patients with degenerative lumbar spinal stenosis and severe global sagittal imbalance. 2024; 19:138. doi: 10.1186/s13018-024-04613-2

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38351135/
