PMID: 38350364
Title: Comparing two surgical techniques in distal hypospadias repair: Urethral mobilization vs. urethral plate tubularization.

Abstract: OBJECTIVES: While numerous techniques have been described for hypospadias repair, the Tubularized Incised Plate (TIP) procedure is currently the most frequently used method. On the other hand, urethral mobilization techniques have less frequent preference. In this study, we aimed to compare the outcomes of these two techniques in patients with distal hypospadias, particularly those with the urethral meatus located at the coronal and subcoronal.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: A total of 75 patients with distal hypospadias underwent surgery. Patients with glanular and midpenile hypospadias whose meatus was not located at the coronal and subcoronal levels were excluded from the study. 43 patients underwent surgery performing the Eccentric Circummeatal-Based Flap with Limited Urethral Mobilization (ECMB) method, while the remaining 32 patients were treated with the TIP. We analyzed age at surgery, urethral meatus position, ventral or glanular curvature, catheterization duration, and complications.
RESULTS: The mean age at operation was 2.6 (±1.1) years. The position of the meatus was coronal in 48 patients (64%), and subcoronal in 27 (36%). Complications consist of fistula in two patients, meatal stenosis in seven patients, and preputial redundancy in two patients. No glans retraction, wound infection or glans dehiscence was observed in any patient. Complication rates were compared and no statistically significant difference was found between the two methods (P>0.05).
CONCLUSION: Mobilization techniques may be a preferable and safe option for young surgeons due to their relative ease of perform.

Citation: Kılıç S. Comparing two surgical techniques in distal hypospadias repair: Urethral mobilization vs. urethral plate tubularization. Comparing two surgical techniques in distal hypospadias repair: Urethral mobilization vs. urethral plate tubularization. 2024; 34:102588. doi: 10.1016/j.fjurol.2024.102588

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38350364/
