PMID: 38369430
Title: Modified PATIO technique for urethrocutaneous fistula after hypospadias repair: Experience from a tertiary referral hospital.

Abstract: INTRODUCTION: Urethrocutaneous fistula (UCF) is a common complication after hypospadias repair with an incidence of 5-10%. Several techniques are described for its repair: small UCFs are frequently corrected by isolation, excision, and closure with apposition of a protective second layer. In 2008 Malone described the PATIO technique: the fistula tract is turned inside out in the urethral lumen preventing contact with passing urine without direct urethral sutures.
OBJECTIVE: Aim of our study is to present our outcomes using a modified version of the PATIO technique, with a more reproducible isolation of the tract and without its fixation at the urethral meatus.
STUDY DESIGN: We retrospectively reviewed all cases of UCFs corrected with a modified PATIO technique at our center between 2016 and 2020. Data collected from electronical clinical notes were age at UCF closure, location of UCF, presence of meatal stenosis and clinical outcomes. Data are presented as median and IQR.
RESULTS: In the study period we performed 425 urethroplasties for distal and mid penile hypospadias. The incidence of UCFs was 7% (30/425) and 25 patients underwent UCF correction with modified PATIO. Median age at repair was 4.5 years (IQR: 2.5-6.2). At a median follow-up of 3 years (IQR: 2-4) recurrence was observed in 5 cases out of 24 with one patient who was lost at follow-up (20.8%). One case was corrected successfully with re-do modified PATIO technique, while 4 are awaiting repair. One cases was lost at follow-up. UFC-recurrence was homogeneously distributed along the study period.
DISCUSSION: Risk factors for UCF recurrence are mostly the type of hypospadias, neo-urethral length, and quality of the urethral plate. Among the many existing techniques, we propose a modified version of Malone's PATIO repair. We believe that the use of four stay-suture to isolate the fistula allows a well-defined dissection of the tract along its surface, compared to the use of a single stay-suture. In our experience, there is no need to keep and fix the traction on the fistula tract to the urethral meatus, probably reflecting the efficacy of the fistula closure during the introflection, which is then maintained without traction. Limitations to our study include the retrospective nature of the review, the small sample size of the cohort and the absence of control groups.
CONCLUSIONS: Our results appear consistent with literature regarding the efficacy of PATIO principles in treating UCF. Modified PATIO seem to be particularly reproducible, showing encouraging results.

Citation: Gigola F, et al. Modified PATIO technique for urethrocutaneous fistula after hypospadias repair: Experience from a tertiary referral hospital. Modified PATIO technique for urethrocutaneous fistula after hypospadias repair: Experience from a tertiary referral hospital. 2024; 20:437.e1-437.e6. doi: 10.1016/j.jpurol.2024.01.031

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38369430/
