PMID: 38369716
Title: Preference Sensitive Care and Shared Decision-Making in Lumbar Spinal Stenosis: A Scoping Review.

Abstract: STUDY DESIGN: Scoping review.
OBJECTIVE: The objective of this study was to conduct a scoping review exploring the extent to which preference sensitivity has been studied in treatment decisions for lumbar spinal stenosis (LSS), utilizing shared decision-making (SDM) as a proxy.
BACKGROUND: Preference-sensitive care involves situations where multiple treatment options exist with significant tradeoffs in cost, outcome, recovery time, and quality of life. LSS has gained research focus as a preference-sensitive care scenario.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: A scoping review protocol in accordance with "Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic Reviews and Meta-Analyses extension for Scoping Reviews" regulations was registered with the Open Science Framework (ID: 9ewup) and conducted across multiple databases from January 2000 to October 2022. Study selection and characterization were performed by 3 independent reviewers and an unbiased moderator.
RESULTS: The search resulted in the inclusion of 16 studies varying in design and sample size, with most published between 2016 and 2021. The studies examined variables related to SDM, patient preferences, surgeon preferences, and decision aids (DAs). The outcomes assessed included treatment choice, patient satisfaction, and patient understanding. Several studies reported that SDM influenced treatment choice and patient satisfaction, while the impact on patient understanding was less clear. DAs were used in some studies to facilitate SDM.
CONCLUSION: The scoping review identified a gap in comprehensive studies analyzing the preference sensitivity of treatment for LSS and the role of DAs. Further research is needed to better understand the impact of patient preferences on treatment decisions and the effectiveness of DAs in LSS care. This review provides a foundation for future research in preference-sensitive care and SDM in the context of lumbar stenosis treatment.

Citation: Asthana S, et al. Preference Sensitive Care and Shared Decision-Making in Lumbar Spinal Stenosis: A Scoping Review. Preference Sensitive Care and Shared Decision-Making in Lumbar Spinal Stenosis: A Scoping Review. 2024; 49:788-797. doi: 10.1097/BRS.0000000000004952

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38369716/
