PMID: 38360968
Title: Assessment of intestinal luminal stenosis and prediction of endoscopy passage in Crohn's disease patients using MRI.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Crohn's disease (CD) is an inflammatory disease of the gastrointestinal tract. The disease behavior changes over time, and endoscopy is crucial in evaluating and monitoring the course of CD. To reduce the economic burden of patients and alleviate the discomfort associated with ineffective examination, it is necessary to fully understand the location, extent, and severity of intestinal stenosis in patients with CD before endoscopy. This study aimed to utilize imaging features of magnetic resonance enterography (MRE) to evaluate intestinal stenosis in patients with CD and to predict whether endoscopy could be passed.
METHODS: MRE data of patients with CD were collected, while age, gender, disease duration, and laboratory test parameters were also gathered. Two radiologists analyzed the images and assessed whether endoscopy could be passed based on the imaging performance. Imaging features of MRE were analyzed in groups based on endoscopy results.
RESULTS: The readers evaluated the imaging performance for 86 patients to determine if endoscopy could be passed and performed a consistency test (compared between two readers k = 0.812, p = 0.000). In the univariate analysis, statistical differences were observed in the degree of T1WI enhancement, thickness of the intestine wall at the stenosis, and diameter of the upstream intestine between the two groups of whether endoscopy was passed. In multivariate logistic regression, the diameter of the upstream intestine was identified to be an independent factor in predicting whether endoscopy was passed or not (OR = 3.260, p = 0.046).
CONCLUSIONS: The utilization of MRE signs for assessing the passage of an endoscope through the narrow segment revealed that the diameter of the upstream intestine emerged as an independent predictor of endoscopic passage. Before performing an endoscopy, MRE can aid in evaluating the passage of the endoscope.
CRITICAL RELEVANCE STATEMENT: This retrospective study explored the imaging features of MRE to evaluate intestinal stenosis in patients with Crohn's disease and determined that the diameter of the upstream intestine of the stenotic segment was an independent predictor in assessing endoscopic passage.
KEY POINTS: • Endoscopy is crucial in evaluating and monitoring the course of Crohn's disease. • The diameter of the upstream intestine of the stenotic segment was an independent predictor in assessing endoscopic passage. • MRE can aid in evaluating the passage of the endoscope in stenotic segments of Crohn's disease.

Citation: Wu W, et al. Assessment of intestinal luminal stenosis and prediction of endoscopy passage in Crohn's disease patients using MRI. Assessment of intestinal luminal stenosis and prediction of endoscopy passage in Crohn's disease patients using MRI. 2024; 15:48. doi: 10.1186/s13244-024-01628-5

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38360968/
