PMID: 38368576
Title: Flow pattern analysis of right ventricular outflow tract in repaired tetralogy of Fallot through 4D flow MRI.

Abstract: Cardiac magnetic resonance imaging (CMR) often shows discrepancies between right ventricular outflow tract (RVOT) flow and left ventricular outflow tract flow in patients with late-stage repaired tetralogy of Fallot (rTOF), leading to potential errors in pulmonary regurgitation fraction (PRF) assessment. This study aimed to identify the conditions under which RVOT flow can be acutely evaluated using four-dimensional (4D) flow CMR. Twenty-seven consecutive patients with rTOF underwent both two-dimensional phase-contrast (2D PC) and 4D flow CMR between 2016 and 2018, excluding those with peripheral pulmonary artery stenosis, RVOT conduit replacement, unknown surgical method, and an aortic valve regurgitation greater than 20%. Seven healthy controls also underwent only 4D Flow CMR. All healthy controls and fifteen patients with rTOF showed laminar RVOT flow, while seven patients exhibited helical, and four patients exhibited vortical RVOT flow in 4D flow CMR visualization. Flow-volume concordance between the pulmonary artery and aortic flow was significantly lower in patients with rTOF and PRF > 40% in 2D PC CMR. This concordance rate in the suprapulmonary valve was high in both the TOF and control groups, comparing at five RVOT locations in 4D flow CMR. Regarding RVOT flow regurgitation in 4D flow, the whole bulk evaluation exhibited greater variation depending on the flow type compared to the whole pixel-wise evaluation. The study confirmed the flow volume at the upper section of the pulmonary valve as the most accurate correlate of aortic flow volume. Furthermore, the 4D flow CMR using the pixel-wise method demonstrated superior accuracy compared to the traditional bulk flow method.

Citation: Iwashita N, et al. Flow pattern analysis of right ventricular outflow tract in repaired tetralogy of Fallot through 4D flow MRI. Flow pattern analysis of right ventricular outflow tract in repaired tetralogy of Fallot through 4D flow MRI. 2024; 39:556-562. doi: 10.1007/s00380-024-02361-1

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38368576/
