PMID: 38365464
Title: Arterial Adventitial Vasa Vasorum Density Reflects The Progression Of Unstable Plaques: A Retrospective Clinical Study.

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: Arterial adventitial vasa vasorum (AVV) plays an important role in the occurrence and development of atherosclerotic (AS) disease. AS is a systemic disease, and plaque is not only a local vascular event, but also occurs at multiple sites throughout the vascular bed. Currently, effective anti-AVV therapies are lacking. Therefore, we posed the following scientific questions: "does human carotid adventitial vasa vasorum density reflect plaque neovascularization and intimal-media hyperplasia in carotid?"; and "is it possible to reduce human AVV density by sonodynamic therapy (SDT)?"
METHODS: A retrospective study was conducted on 160 patients with carotid atherosclerosis. Duplex ultrasound scanning (DUS), contrast-enhanced ultrasound (CEUS), coronary angiography, and coronary CT angiography (CTA) were used for diagnosis and screening. Pearson correlation tests and Receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve were used to analyze the relationships between AVV hyperplasia, vasa vasorum (VV) hyperplasia and the intima-media thickness (IMT). SDT was developed for the treatment of arterial AVV hyperplasia and AS plaques.
RESULTS: The presence of local AVV in carotid unstable plaques correlated with the echogenic properties of the carotid plaque and the extent of plaque progression; Furthermore local AVV hyperplasia in patients with carotid atherosclerotic plaques was associated with acute coronary syndrome (ACS) events; Local AVV hyperplasia in patients with carotid atherosclerotic plaques was associated with coronary artery stenosis. Notably, SDT reduced local AVV hyperplasia and shrank the plaques in human femoral and carotid atherosclerotic lesions.
CONCLUSIONS: The presence of AVV in human carotid arteries reflects the severity of carotid and coronary artery AS. Further, SDT can reduce the hyperplasia of local AVV in human femoral and carotid plaques.

Citation: Yang J, et al. Arterial Adventitial Vasa Vasorum Density Reflects The Progression Of Unstable Plaques: A Retrospective Clinical Study. Arterial Adventitial Vasa Vasorum Density Reflects The Progression Of Unstable Plaques: A Retrospective Clinical Study. 2024; 50:712-721. doi: 10.1016/j.ultrasmedbio.2024.01.011

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38365464/
