PMID: 38362574
Title: Coronary protection using a pressure wire during transcatheter aortic valve implantation.

Abstract: UNLABELLED: Coronary obstruction is a rare but life-threatening complication of transcatheter aortic valve implantation (TAVI). This article describes the case of a patient with severe aortic valve stenosis treated with TAVI, during which preventive coronary wiring using a pressure wire was performed for coronary protection. After the deployment of the transcatheter heart valve (THV), the values of the fractional flow reserve (FFR) and resting full-cycle ratio (RFR) remarkably decreased, although the findings of transesophageal echocardiography and coronary angiography did not suggest coronary obstruction. Intravascular ultrasound revealed severe stenosis in the left main trunk due to the displacement of the calcified native leaflets. The decrease in the FFR and RFR values after THV deployment led to a diagnosis of partial coronary obstruction, and percutaneous coronary intervention was successfully performed. In patients at a high risk for coronary obstruction, coronary protection with a pressure wire is useful for the diagnosis and prevention of coronary flow deterioration during TAVI. Functional assessment using a pressure wire before and after TAVI may contribute to the accurate diagnosis of coronary obstruction.
LEARNING OBJECTIVE: Accurate diagnosis of coronary obstruction during transcatheter aortic valve implantation (TAVI) is important for successful management. In patients at a high risk for coronary obstruction, coronary protection with a pressure wire is useful for the diagnosis and prevention of coronary flow deterioration during TAVI. The remarkable decrease in the fractional flow reserve and resting full-cycle ratio values after the deployment of the transcatheter heart valve may suggest coronary obstruction.

Citation: Kikuchi S, et al. Coronary protection using a pressure wire during transcatheter aortic valve implantation. Coronary protection using a pressure wire during transcatheter aortic valve implantation. 2024; 29:73-77. doi: 10.1016/j.jccase.2023.10.008

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38362574/
