PMID: 38365854
Title: Biocompatibility and sub-chronic toxicity studies of phlorotannin/polycaprolactone coated trachea tube for advancing medical device applications.

Abstract: The phlorotannin-polycaprolactone-coated endotracheal tube (PP tube) has been developed with the aim of preventing tracheal stenosis that can result from endotracheal intubation, a factor that can lead to a serious airway obstruction. Its preventive efficacy has been assessed through both in vitro and in vivo investigations. However, there is a lack of studies concerning its biocompatibility and sub-chronic toxicity in animal models, a crucial factor to ensure the safety of its usage as a functional endotracheal tube. Thus, this study aimed to evaluate the biocompatibility and sub-chronic (13 weeks) toxicity of the PP tube through L929 cell line and diverse in vivo models. The cytotoxicity testing was performed using the extracts of PP tube on L929 cells for 72 h. Furthermore, other tests conducted on animal models, including ICR mice (acute systemic toxicity), New Zealand white rabbit (intradermal reactivity and pyrogen tests), guinea pig (maximization sensitization), and Sprague Dawley rats (sub-chronic toxicity). In both biocompatibility and sub-chronic toxicity analyses, no significant adverse effects are observed in the groups exposed to the PP tube, when compared to control group. Altogether, the findings suggested that the PP tube exhibits relative non-toxic and safety, supporting its suitability for clinical usage. However, extended periods of intubation may produce mild irritant responses, highlighting the clinical caution of limiting intubation duration to less than 13 weeks.

Citation: Kim TH, et al. Biocompatibility and sub-chronic toxicity studies of phlorotannin/polycaprolactone coated trachea tube for advancing medical device applications. Biocompatibility and sub-chronic toxicity studies of phlorotannin/polycaprolactone coated trachea tube for advancing medical device applications. 2024; 14:3945. doi: 10.1038/s41598-024-54684-8

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38365854/
