PMID: 38374610
Title: Tricuspid regurgitation: Frequency, clinical presentation, management and outcome among patients with severe left-sided valvular heart disease in Europe. Insights from the ESC-EORP Valvular Heart Disease II survey.

Abstract: AIMS: Tricuspid regurgitation (TR) is commonly observed in patients with severe left-sided valvular heart disease (VHD). This study sought to assess TR frequency, management and outcome in this population.
METHODS AND RESULTS: Among 6883 patients with severe native left-sided VHD or previous left-sided valvular intervention enrolled in the EURObservational Research Programme prospective VHD II survey, moderate or severe TR was very frequent in patients with severe mitral VHD (30% when mitral stenosis, 36% when mitral regurgitation [MR]), especially in patients with secondary MR (46%), and rare in patients with severe aortic VHD (4% when aortic stenosis, 3% when aortic regurgitation). An increase in TR grade was associated with a more severe clinical presentation and a poorer 6-month survival (p < 0.0001). Rates of concomitant tricuspid valve (TV) intervention at the time of left-sided heart valve surgery were high at the time of mitral valve surgery (50% when mitral stenosis, 41% when MR). Concordance between class I indications (patients with severe TR) for concomitant TV surgery at the time of left-sided valvular heart surgery according to guidelines and real-practice decision-making was very good (88% overall, 95% in patients operated on for MR).
CONCLUSION: In this large international prospective survey among patients with severe left-sided VHD, moderate/severe TR was frequent in patients with mitral valve disease and was associated with a poorer outcome as TR grade increased. In patients with severe TR, compliance to guidelines for class I indications for concomitant TV surgery at the time of left-sided heart valve surgery was very good.

Citation: Dreyfus J, et al. Tricuspid regurgitation: Frequency, clinical presentation, management and outcome among patients with severe left-sided valvular heart disease in Europe. Insights from the ESC-EORP Valvular Heart Disease II survey. Tricuspid regurgitation: Frequency, clinical presentation, management and outcome among patients with severe left-sided valvular heart disease in Europe. Insights from the ESC-EORP Valvular Heart Disease II survey. 2024; 26:994-1003. doi: 10.1002/ejhf.3157

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38374610/
