PMID: 38374021
Title: Is Allium Ureteral Stent Feasible for the Treatment of Ileal-Ureteral Anastomotic Stenosis? A Case Report.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: The conventional approach for managing ureteral stenosis involves the placement of a double-J stent. In recent years, the utilisation of Allium ureteral stent (URS) has emerged as a novel treatment alternative for ureteral stenosis. Allium URS has several advantages over traditional stents, including an extended indwelling time and reduced incidence of complications. The number of cases reported worldwide on the use of Allium URS in the treatment of ureteral stenosis is currently limited. In this paper, we present the details of a case involving the use of an Allium URS to treat ileal-ureteral anastomotic stenosis in a 67-year-old patient. We aim to assess the feasibility of using Allium URS in such cases.
CASE PRESENTATION: A 67-year-old Chinese woman was referred to our hospital for the treatment of left lumbago. Urography showed left ileal-ureteral anastomotic stenosis. Computed tomography (CT) revealed severe hydronephrosis in the left kidney. Subsequently, an Allium URS was implanted via ureteroscopy. We found no instances of haematuria, lumbago or urinary tract irritation during the follow-up period. After 8 months, the patient was readmitted because of left lumbago. CT re-examination revealed that the left hydronephrosis had modestly improved. The Allium URS had detached and showed stone formation on its surface. For further treatment, ureteroscopy was performed and a new Allium URS was implanted. At 3-month follow-up, CT re-examination demonstrated that the stent had dislodged again but that the hydronephrosis in the left kidney had remarkably improved. Cystoscopy revealed that the stent had completely detached and that wall stones had attached on this surface. The stent was removed via cystoscopy. After 1 month, CT scanning showed that the left hydronephrosis of the patient had almost disappeared.
CONCLUSION: Allium URS is effective in the treatment of hydronephrosis caused by ileal-ureteral anastomotic stenosis. Although complications, such as haematuria, lumbago and urinary tract irritation, are rare, complications, such as stent displacement and stone formation, may occur. Hence, caution must be exercised when considering the use of Allium URSs in the treatment of patients with ileal-ureteral anastomotic stenosis.

Citation: Ye J, et al. Is Allium Ureteral Stent Feasible for the Treatment of Ileal-Ureteral Anastomotic Stenosis? A Case Report. Is Allium Ureteral Stent Feasible for the Treatment of Ileal-Ureteral Anastomotic Stenosis? A Case Report. 2024; 77:113-118. doi: 10.56434/j.arch.esp.urol.20247701.15

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38374021/
