PMID: 38372797
Title: Ureteral stricture formation after endoscopic removal of obstructing stones: could it be predicted with well-assessed radiological parameters?

Abstract: The possible role of well-assessed radiological parameters in the prediction of ureteral stricture formation in cases with impacted obstructive ureteral calculi has been evaluated. 46 adult patients with or without ureteral stricture formation after ureteroscopic stone management were included. In addition to stone size and some certain radiological parameters including ureteral wall thickness (UWT) of the involved ureter at the impacted stone site was also measured and noted on computed tomography (CT) images. Parameters were evaluated in two subgroups of cases, namely: Group 1: patients in whom a ureteral stricture formed after endoscopic stone removal and Group 2: patients normal ureteral anatomy without any stricture formation. The possible relationship between the UWT values and degree of hydronephrosis (HN) with subsequent stricture formation was comparatively evaluated. All of the stones were proximal ureteral calculi in both groups. Both the degree of HN and proximal ureteral diameter (PUD) parenchymal was higher in cases with stricture formation. In addition, mean parenchymal thickness was lower and mean values of UWT measurements at the stone site were 3.70 ± 0.97 mm and 2.17 ± 0.26 mm in Groups 1 and 2, respectively. A cutoff value 2.49 mm for UWT was found to be highly predictive for stricture formation. UWT value calculated at the obstructing stone site was found to be predictive enough for the likelihood of ureteral stricture formation with high sensitivity and specificity . This evaluation along with some other radiological parameters may enable the urologists to follow such cases on this aspect with necessary measures taken.

Citation: Sahin C, et al. Ureteral stricture formation after endoscopic removal of obstructing stones: could it be predicted with well-assessed radiological parameters?. Ureteral stricture formation after endoscopic removal of obstructing stones: could it be predicted with well-assessed radiological parameters?. 2024; 52:34. doi: 10.1007/s00240-024-01530-1

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38372797/
