PMID: 38370072
Title: Dietary antioxidant status indices may not interact with CETP Taq1B polymorphism on lipid profile and severity of coronary artery stenosis in patients under coronary angiography.

Abstract: The association of CETP Taq1B polymorphism with some metabolic traits is still controversial. The interaction of adherence to dietary indices with this polymorphism on the severity of coronary artery stenosis and serum lipid parameters needs to be investigated. This study aimed to test this hypothesis. This cross-sectional study included 453 patients who were referred from Afshar Hospital of Yazd and undergoing coronary angiography from 2020 to 2021. Dietary intake was evaluated by a 178-item validated and reliable dietary questionnaire. Dietary indices such as dietary antioxidant index (DAI), dietary antioxidant quality score (DAQS), and dietary phytochemical index (DPI) are determined according to dietary guidelines. The Taq1B variant was genotyped by the polymerase chain reaction-restriction fragment length polymorphism method (PCR-RFLP). Two-way ANOVA was used to test the interaction between Taq1B polymorphism and dietary indices. The results of the frequency analysis of Taq1B genotypes showed that 10.4% were B1B1, 72.4% B1B2, and 17.2% B2B2. No significant interaction was found between the Taq1B variant with high adherence to DAQS, DAI, and DPI on total cholesterol (TC), high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL), low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL), triglyceride (TG) levels, and Gensini score (GS) and Syntax score (SS). In high-adherence dietary indices, lipid profile and coronary artery stenosis scores did not differ significantly in Taq1B genotypes. Due to the insignificant results in this research, further studies are needed to investigate the role of Taq1B SNP in modulating dyslipidemia and the severity of the CAD in interaction with dietary indices.

Citation: Ahmadi Vasmehjani A, et al. Dietary antioxidant status indices may not interact with CETP Taq1B polymorphism on lipid profile and severity of coronary artery stenosis in patients under coronary angiography. Dietary antioxidant status indices may not interact with CETP Taq1B polymorphism on lipid profile and severity of coronary artery stenosis in patients under coronary angiography. 2024; 12:1012-1022. doi: 10.1002/fsn3.3815

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38370072/
