PMID: 38374097
Title: Successful tricuspid valve repair and right atrial mass excision for calcified thrombus causing severe tricuspid regurgitation and near-occlusion of inferior vena cava.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Calcified right atrial thrombus is rare and commonly occurs secondary to atrial fibrillation and long-term central venous catheterization which present risk for embolization. Treatment typically involves anticoagulation and antiplatelet therapy but rarely surgical excision can be performed, especially in patients with venous obstruction or concomitant valvular dysfunction.
CASE PRESENTATION: We present the case of a 69 year old symptomatic female with a history of atrial fibrillation and long-term venous catheterization found to have a large calcified right atrial thrombus causing inferior vena cava obstruction and severe tricuspid regurgitation. Patient underwent full median sternotomy with ascending arterial cannulation with superior vena cava and femoral venous cannulation. Intraoperatively, extensive right atrial calcified thrombus was found extending into the inferior vena cava and involving the septal portion of the tricuspid valve annulus causing regurgitation. The calcified thrombus was removed which resolved the inferior vena cava obstruction and the tricuspid valve was repaired by transecting septal leaflet chordae, commissuroplasty, and ring annuloplasty. Postoperative course was uncomplicated and pathology confirmed a calcified right atrial thrombus. At 6 month follow up, the patient was asymptomatic with echocardiogram showing no inferior vena cava stenosis and trivial tricuspid regurgitation.
CONCLUSIONS: Surgical excision of calcified right atrial thrombus is rare and is often indicated for symptomatic patients with extensive involvement causing venous inflow obstruction or valvular dysfunction. Sufficient preoperative imaging and a multi-disciplinary approach are essential for accurate diagnosis to guide targeted treatment. When the tricuspid valve is involved, repair is preferred over replacement in this patient population given their propensity for calcification and thrombus formation which may result in an increased risk of early bioprosthetic valve degeneration or mechanical valve thrombosis.

Citation: Pennacchio C, et al. Successful tricuspid valve repair and right atrial mass excision for calcified thrombus causing severe tricuspid regurgitation and near-occlusion of inferior vena cava. Successful tricuspid valve repair and right atrial mass excision for calcified thrombus causing severe tricuspid regurgitation and near-occlusion of inferior vena cava. 2024; 19:100. doi: 10.1186/s13019-024-02571-8

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38374097/
