PMID: 38372410
Title: A novel mouse model of calcific aortic valve stenosis.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Calcific aortic valve stenosis (CAVS) is one of the most challenging heart diseases in clinical with rapidly increasing prevalence. However, study of the mechanism and treatment of CAVS is hampered by the lack of suitable, robust and efficient models that develop hemodynamically significant stenosis and typical calcium deposition. Here, we aim to establish a mouse model to mimic the development and features of CAVS.
METHODS: The model was established via aortic valve wire injury (AVWI) combined with vitamin D subcutaneous injected in wild type C57/BL6 mice. Serial transthoracic echocardiography was applied to evaluate aortic jet peak velocity and mean gradient. Histopathological specimens were collected and examined in respect of valve thickening, calcium deposition, collagen accumulation, osteogenic differentiation and inflammation.
RESULTS: Serial transthoracic echocardiography revealed that aortic jet peak velocity and mean gradient increased from 7 days post model establishment in a time dependent manner and tended to be stable at 28 days. Compared with the sham group, simple AVWI or the vitamin D group, the hybrid model group showed typical pathological features of CAVS, including hemodynamic alterations, increased aortic valve thickening, calcium deposition, collagen accumulation at 28 days. In addition, osteogenic differentiation, fibrosis and inflammation, which play critical roles in the development of CAVS, were observed in the hybrid model.
CONCLUSIONS: We established a novel mouse model of CAVS that could be induced efficiently, robustly and economically, and without genetic intervention. It provides a fast track to explore the underlying mechanisms of CAVS and to identify more effective pharmacological targets.

Citation: Qian N, et al. A novel mouse model of calcific aortic valve stenosis. A novel mouse model of calcific aortic valve stenosis. 2024; 7:523-532. doi: 10.1002/ame2.12393

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38372410/
