PMID: 38375465
Title: The significance of metabolic disease in degenerative cervical myelopathy: a systematic review.

Abstract: INTRODUCTION: Degenerative cervical myelopathy (DCM) is a form of chronic spinal cord injury, with a natural history of potential for progression over time. Whilst driven by mechanical stress on the spinal cord from degenerative and congenital pathology, the neurological phenotype of DCM is likely to be modified by multiple systemic factors. The role of metabolic factors is therefore of interest, particularly given that ischaemia is considered a key pathological mechanism of spinal cord injury. The objective was therefore to synthesise current evidence on the effect of metabolism on DCM susceptibility, severity, and surgical outcomes.
METHODS: A systematic review in MEDLINE and Embase was conducted following PRISMA guidelines. Full-text papers in English, with a focus on DCM and metabolism, including diabetes, cardiovascular disease, anaemia, and lipid profile, were eligible for inclusion. Risk of methodological bias was assessed using the Joanna Briggs Institute (JBI) critical assessment tools. Quality assessments were performed using the GRADE assessment tool. Patient demographics, metabolic factors and the relationships between metabolism and spinal cord disease, spinal column disease and post-operative outcomes were assessed.
RESULTS: In total, 8,523 papers were identified, of which 57 met criteria for inclusion in the final analysis. A total of 91% (52/57) of included papers assessed the effects of diabetes in relation to DCM, of which 85% (44/52) reported an association with poor surgical outcomes; 42% of papers (24/57) discussed the association between cardiovascular health and DCM, of which 88% (21/24) reported a significant association. Overall, DCM patients with diabetes or cardiovascular disease experienced greater perioperative morbidity and poorer neurological recovery. They were also more likely to have comorbidities such as obesity and hyperlipidaemia.
CONCLUSION: Metabolic factors appear to be associated with surgical outcomes in DCM. However, evidence for a more specific role in DCM susceptibility and severity is uncertain. The pathophysiology and natural history of DCM are critical research priorities; the role of metabolism is therefore a key area for future research focus.
SYSTEMATIC REVIEW REGISTRATION: https://www.crd.york.ac.uk/prospero/, identifier: CRD42021268814.

Citation: Partha Sarathi CI, et al. The significance of metabolic disease in degenerative cervical myelopathy: a systematic review. The significance of metabolic disease in degenerative cervical myelopathy: a systematic review. 2024; 15:1301003. doi: 10.3389/fneur.2024.1301003

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38375465/
