PMID: 38379090
Title: Association between preoperative white matter hyperintensities and postoperative new ischemic lesions on magnetic resonance imaging in patients with cognitive decline after carotid endarterectomy.

Abstract: Although cognitive decline after carotid endarterectomy (CEA) is mainly related to postoperative cerebral hyperperfusion, approximately 30% of patients with cognitive decline do not have postoperative cerebral hyperperfusion. In patients with acute ischemic events, the development of cognitive decline after such events is associated with the presence of chronic cerebral white matter hyperintensities (WMHs). The present prospective observational study aimed to determine whether preoperative WMHs and postoperative new ischemic lesions (PNILs) are associated with cognitive decline after CEA in patients without cerebral hyperperfusion after CEA. Brain magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) was performed preoperatively, and WMHs were graded according to the Fazekas scale in patients undergoing CEA for severe stenosis of the ipsilateral internal carotid. Diffusion-weighted MRI was performed before and after CEA to determine the development of PNILs. Neuropsychological testing was performed preoperatively and at 2 months postoperatively to determine the development of postoperative cognitive decline (PCD). In 142 patients without postoperative cerebral hyperperfusion, logistic regression analysis revealed that preoperative Fazekas scale of periventricular WMHs (PVWMHs) (95% confidence interval [CI]: 1.78-28.10; P = 0.0055) and PNILs in the eloquent areas (95% CI: 7.42-571.89; P = 0.0002) were significantly associated with PCD. The specificity and positive-predictive value for the prediction of PCD were significantly greater for the combination of preoperative Fazekas scale 2 or 3 of PVWMHs and PNILs in the eloquent areas than for each individually. Preoperative PVWMHs, PNILs in the eloquent areas, and the combination of both were associated with PCD in patients without cerebral hyperperfusion after CEA.

Citation: Yamazaki R, et al. Association between preoperative white matter hyperintensities and postoperative new ischemic lesions on magnetic resonance imaging in patients with cognitive decline after carotid endarterectomy. Association between preoperative white matter hyperintensities and postoperative new ischemic lesions on magnetic resonance imaging in patients with cognitive decline after carotid endarterectomy. 2024; 47:91. doi: 10.1007/s10143-024-02324-0

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38379090/
