PMID: 38379687
Title: Transcatheter Aortic Valve Implantation Two Decades of Evolution - TAVI From Current Perspective.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: In the treatment of valvular heart diseases, transcatheter therapies have changed the rules of the game, especially in the case of aortic stenosis and mitral regurgitation. Since the first in man transcatheter aortic valve intervention (TAVI) performed by Dr. Alain Cribier in 2002 in a non-operable aortic stenosis (AS) patient, TAVI has changed the lives of so many patients for whom medical treatment was, up to then, the only option.
OBJECTIVE: This article outlines patient selection and pre-procedure evaluation, current perspectives, recent advances, current and future devices, current guidelines informing the use of TAVI, expanding indications for TAVI, ongoing challenges and the future of TAVI.
METHODS: The use of these percutaneous techniques has also increased significantly in the past few years with its first application in 2002, transcatheter aortic valve implantation (TAVI) has revolutionized the management of aortic stenosis and has become the standard of care for patients with AS at prohibitively high surgical risks, as well as a preferred treatment for elderly patients with intermediate and high-risk AS.
RESULTS: Since the first pioneering procedure was performed 22 years ago, transcatheter aortic valve implantation (TAVI) has evolved into a routine procedure increasingly performed under conscious sedation via transfemoral access. On a global market worth $2 billion per year, over 300 000 patients have received a transcatheter aortic valve, demonstrating its clinical and market impact. TAVI may be used in lower risk, younger, asymptomatic populations with ongoing studies using an expanding portfolio of devices. Also, for patients deemed unsuitable for cardiac surgery, mitral transcatheter therapies represent the treatment of choice. Percutaneous repair techniques have had the most clinical experience to date.
CONCLUSION: During this 20-year period, the increased knowledge on pre-procedural planning, the important technological improvements in transcatheter valves, the increased experience and the numerous studies that have been carried out have permitted an expansion of the indications for TAVI, from inoperable patients to high- and intermediate-risk patients. This article outlines patient selection and pre-procedure evaluation, current perspectives, recent advances, current and future devices, current guidelines informing the use of TAVI, expanding indications for TAVI, ongoing challenges and the future of TAVI.

Citation: Nabil N. Transcatheter Aortic Valve Implantation Two Decades of Evolution - TAVI From Current Perspective. Transcatheter Aortic Valve Implantation Two Decades of Evolution - TAVI From Current Perspective. 2023; 31:312-321. doi: 10.5455/aim.2023.31.312-321

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38379687/
