PMID: 38379246
Title: 64-Slice ECG-gated computed tomographic angiography for assessment of coronary arteries in brachycephalic dogs with pulmonary stenosis.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Brachycephalic dogs with pulmonary stenosis are known to have a higher incidence of concurrent coronary artery abnormalities than non-brachycephalic breeds, which increases risk when performing balloon valvuloplasty. The use of ECG-gated CT angiography has been reported for the evaluation of coronary arteries in normal dogs and dogs with pulmonary stenosis. The purpose of this study was to report findings of coronary artery origination and morphology of main branches using ECG-gated CT angiography in brachycephalic dogs with pulmonary stenosis.
METHODS: An ECG-gated CT angiographic protocol was used to image coronary artery anatomy in nine brachycephalic dogs with pulmonary stenosis. Images were assessed for quality as well as coronary artery morphology by one veterinary radiologist, one veterinary cardiologist and one veterinary radiology resident.
RESULTS: All nine dogs had good to excellent image quality. Coronary artery anomalies were identified in three of nine dogs: one R2A anomaly, one L2A anomaly and one L2C anomaly. Two dogs were assessed to be poor balloon valvuloplasty candidates based on CT angiographic images.
LIMITATION: Coronary artery morphology was not confirmed via postmortem examination in all patients.
CONCLUSION: ECG-gated CT angiography is a minimally invasive imaging modality capable of diagnosing various coronary artery anomalies in brachycephalic dogs with pulmonary stenosis and aiding in the determination of patient candidacy for balloon valvuloplasty.

Citation: Hallman C, et al. 64-Slice ECG-gated computed tomographic angiography for assessment of coronary arteries in brachycephalic dogs with pulmonary stenosis. 64-Slice ECG-gated computed tomographic angiography for assessment of coronary arteries in brachycephalic dogs with pulmonary stenosis. 2024; 194:e3857. doi: 10.1002/vetr.3857

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38379246/
