PMID: 38373047
Title: Assessment of Reversibility of Transverse Venous Sinus Stenosis in Patients With Papilledema.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Bilateral transverse venous sinus stenosis (TVSS) or stenosis of a dominant venous sinus has been found to be very sensitive radiological findings in patients with intracranial hypertension (IH), yet there is still an ongoing debate whether they constitute reversible or permanent phenomena. Thus, the purpose of this study was to investigate the reversibility of TVSS in patients with IH, including conservatively treated patients with signs of IH as defined by the presence of papilledema.
METHODS: This was a retrospective chart review of all patients diagnosed with IH between 2016 and 2022, assessed from 2 tertiary university-affiliated neuro-ophthalmology practices. Inclusion criteria were the presence of papilledema, as quantified by optical coherence tomography, and bilateral TVSS, which is considered typical of IH on neuroimaging. During follow-up, included patients must have had confirmation of papilledema resolution as well as subsequent neuroimaging after conservative treatment or cerebrospinal fluid flow diversion. Patients with dural sinus vein thrombosis or intrinsic stenosis from sinus trabeculations or significant arachnoid granulations were excluded from the study. Either CT venography or MRI/MR venography was reviewed by a fellowship-trained neuroradiologist, and the degree of stenosis was scored through the combined conduit score (CCS), as described by Farb et al. The primary outcome was to assess TVSS changes after resolution or improvement of papilledema.
RESULTS: From 435 patients, we identified a subset of 10 who satisfied all inclusion criteria. Our cohort comprised entirely women with a median age of 29.5 years and a median BMI of 32.5 kg/m2. Treatment consisted of acetazolamide in 7 patients, of which 1 had additional topiramate and 2 underwent cerebrospinal fluid flow diversion. Furthermore, 6 patients demonstrated significant weight loss during follow-up. For the primary outcome, 5 of 10 patients exhibited no appreciable TVSS change, and 5 patients demonstrated significant improvement in TVSS, of which 4 received conservative treatment only. Papilledema resolution or improvement was statistically significantly associated with increasing average CCS, TVSS diameter, and grade.
CONCLUSIONS: We were able to demonstrate that TVSS can be both irreversible and reversible in patients with resolved papilledema. The finding of TVSS reversibility from conservative treatment alone is novel and has important implications to optimize patient care. Future studies should work to identify factors associated with irreversible TVSS for subsequent targeted intervention and prevention.

Citation: Handzic A, et al. Assessment of Reversibility of Transverse Venous Sinus Stenosis in Patients With Papilledema. Assessment of Reversibility of Transverse Venous Sinus Stenosis in Patients With Papilledema. 2024; (unknown volume):(unknown pages). doi: 10.1097/WNO.0000000000002090

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38373047/
