PMID: 38389459
Title: Minimal invasive treatment of urethral strictures: An experimental study of the effect of paclitaxel coated balloons in the wall of strictured rabbit's urethra.

Abstract: PURPOSE: The aim of this study is the evaluation of the distribution of paclitaxel (PTX) released by a coated balloon in the layers of rabbit's urethra.
METHODS: 18 rabbits were included. A laser device was used for the stricture formation. After two weeks, dilation of the strictured urethra was performed by using Advance 35LP PTA balloons and Advance 18 PTX PTA balloons. The experimental models were divided into 3 groups. The group Α included two rabbits without any intervention except for the stenosis procedure. Group B compromised six rabbits that underwent dilation with Advance 35LP PTA balloons. Group C consisted of 10 rabbits to which dilation with both Advance 35LP PTA balloons and Advance 18 PTX PTA balloons was applied. Histological evaluation and Immunohistochemistry were performed on all specimens.
RESULTS: Inflammation, fibrosis and ruptures were detected in the specimens of the study. In specimens of Group C the decrease of inflammation and fibrosis rate was greater. Anti-PTX antibody was detected in the epithelium, lamina propria and smooth muscle layer of all specimens of urethras that have been harvested immediately and 1 day after the dilation with Advance 18 PTX PTA balloon and it was not observed in any layer of the urethral wall of the rest of the examined specimens of Group C.
CONCLUSIONS: PTX's enrichment was detected in the smooth muscle layer of all specimens that have been harvested immediately and 24h after the dilation with Advance 18 PTX PTA balloons. PTX may play an inhibitive role in the recurrence of the stenosis.

Citation: Pagonis K, et al. Minimal invasive treatment of urethral strictures: An experimental study of the effect of paclitaxel coated balloons in the wall of strictured rabbit's urethra. Minimal invasive treatment of urethral strictures: An experimental study of the effect of paclitaxel coated balloons in the wall of strictured rabbit's urethra. 2024; 96:12248. doi: 10.4081/aiua.2024.12248

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38389459/
