PMID: 38385292
Title: Reduced Monocyte and Neutrophil Infiltration and Activation by P-Selectin/CD62P Inhibition Enhances Thrombus Resolution in Mice.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Venous thromboembolism is a major health problem. After thrombus formation, its resolution is essential to re-establish blood flow, which is crucially mediated by infiltrating neutrophils and monocytes in concert with activated platelets and endothelial cells. Thus, we aimed to modulate leukocyte function during thrombus resolution post-thrombus formation by blocking P-selectin/CD62P-mediated cell interactions.
METHODS: Thrombosis was induced by inferior vena cava stenosis through ligation in mice. After 1 day, a P-selectin-blocking antibody or isotype control was administered and thrombus composition and resolution were analyzed.
RESULTS: Localizing neutrophils and macrophages in thrombotic lesions of wild-type mice revealed that these cells enter the thrombus and vessel wall from the caudal end. Neutrophils were predominantly present 1 day and monocytes/macrophages 3 days after vessel ligation. Blocking P-selectin reduced circulating platelet-neutrophil and platelet-Ly6Chigh monocyte aggregates near the thrombus, and diminished neutrophils and Ly6Chigh macrophages in the cranial thrombus part compared with isotype-treated controls. Depletion of neutrophils 1 day after thrombus initiation did not phenocopy P-selectin inhibition but led to larger thrombi compared with untreated controls. In vitro, P-selectin enhanced human leukocyte function as P-selectin-coated beads increased reactive oxygen species production by neutrophils and tissue factor expression of classical monocytes. Accordingly, P-selectin inhibition reduced oxidative burst in the thrombus and tissue factor expression in the adjacent vessel wall. Moreover, blocking P-selectin reduced thrombus density determined by scanning electron microscopy and increased urokinase-type plasminogen activator levels in the thrombus, which accelerated caudal fibrin degradation from day 3 to day 14. This accelerated thrombus resolution as thrombus volume declined more rapidly after blocking P-selectin.
CONCLUSIONS: Inhibition of P-selectin-dependent activation of monocytes and neutrophils accelerates venous thrombosis resolution due to reduced infiltration and activation of innate immune cells at the site of thrombus formation, which prevents early thrombus stabilization and facilitates fibrinolysis.

Citation: Kral-Pointner JB, et al. Reduced Monocyte and Neutrophil Infiltration and Activation by P-Selectin/CD62P Inhibition Enhances Thrombus Resolution in Mice. Reduced Monocyte and Neutrophil Infiltration and Activation by P-Selectin/CD62P Inhibition Enhances Thrombus Resolution in Mice. 2024; 44:954-968. doi: 10.1161/ATVBAHA.123.320016

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38385292/
