PMID: 38384780
Title: Analysis of fibrocalcific aortic valve stenosis: computational pre-and-post TAVR haemodynamics behaviours.

Abstract: Fibro-calcific aortic valve (AV) diseases are characterized by calcium growth or accumulation of fibrosis in the AV tissues. Fibrocalcific aortic stenosis (FAS) rises specifically in females, like calcification-induced aortic stenosis (CAS), may eventually necessitate valve replacement. Fluid-structure-interaction (FSI) computational models for severe CAS and FAS patients were developed using lattice Boltzmann method and multi-scale finite elements (FE). Three parametric AV models were introduced: pathology-free of non-calcified tri-and-bicuspid AVs with healthy collagen fibre network (CFN), a FAS model incorporated a thickened CFN with embedded small calcification volumes, and a CAS model employs healthy CFN with embedded high calcification volumes. The results indicate that the interaction between calcium deposits, adjacent tissue and fibres crucially influences haemodynamics and structural reactions. A fourth model of transcatheter aortic valve replacement (TAVR) post-procedure outcomes was created to study both CAS and FAS. TAVR-CAS had a higher maximum contact pressure and lower anchoring area than TAVR-FAS, making it prone to aortic tissue damage and migration. Finally, although the TAVR-CAS offered a larger opening area, its paravalvular leakage was higher. This may be attributed to a similar thrombogenicity potential characterizing both models. The computational framework emphasizes the significance of mechanobiology in FAS and underscores the requirement for tissue modelling at multiple scales.

Citation: Morany A, et al. Analysis of fibrocalcific aortic valve stenosis: computational pre-and-post TAVR haemodynamics behaviours. Analysis of fibrocalcific aortic valve stenosis: computational pre-and-post TAVR haemodynamics behaviours. 2024; 11:230905. doi: 10.1098/rsos.230905

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38384780/
