PMID: 38387238
Title: Endovascular treatment of acute atherothrombotic internal carotid artery occlusion associated with persistent primitive hypoglossal artery.

Abstract: Persistent primitive hypoglossal artery is a relatively rare anatomical variation and a type of persistent carotid-basilar anastomosis. Acute internal carotid artery occlusion associated with persistent primitive hypoglossal artery is rare, and atherothrombotic occlusion is extremely rare. We present a case of acute atherothrombotic internal carotid artery occlusion associated with persistent primitive hypoglossal artery that was successfully treated by endovascular treatment. A 70-year-old male with a history of left internal carotid artery stenosis was transferred to our hospital by ambulance because of abnormal behaviors and aphasia. He was diagnosed with cerebral infarction and left internal carotid artery occlusion. Left carotid angiography revealed the persistent primitive hypoglossal artery arising from the cervical internal carotid artery and complete internal carotid artery occlusion distal to the origin of the persistent primitive hypoglossal artery. Therefore, we performed endovascular treatment. Mechanical thrombectomy was performed under minimal flow arrest with consideration of brain ischemia causing coma. After additional balloon angioplasty, recanalization was achieved, and the patient's symptoms improved. During the 1.5-year follow-up period, no recurrence or restenosis was observed. This report provides evidence that atherosclerotic internal carotid artery stenosis associated with persistent primitive hypoglossal artery can occur even distal to the origin of the persistent primitive hypoglossal artery and that the lesion may become acutely occluded, leading to acute stroke. Endovascular treatment considering brain ischemia was effective in this case.

Citation: Ishizuka T, et al. Endovascular treatment of acute atherothrombotic internal carotid artery occlusion associated with persistent primitive hypoglossal artery. Endovascular treatment of acute atherothrombotic internal carotid artery occlusion associated with persistent primitive hypoglossal artery. 2024; 238:108179. doi: 10.1016/j.clineuro.2024.108179

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38387238/
