PMID: 38383907
Title: Cancer therapy-related vaginal toxicity: its prevalence and assessment methods-a systematic review.

Abstract: PURPOSE: In 2020, almost 9 million women were diagnosed with cancer worldwide. Despite advancements in cancer treatment strategies, patients still suffer from acute and long-term side effects. This systematic review aims to evaluate the most frequently reported adverse effects in the genitourinary system and compare them across cancer types, treatment modalities, and evaluation methods.
METHODS: Pubmed Central, SCOPUS, and Cochrane Library were searched following the PRISMA guidelines to identify all prospective and retrospective observational cohort studies and randomized controlled trials assessing vaginal side effects of adult female cancer patients. The study quality was evaluated using The Newcastle-Ottawa Scale or the Risk of Bias 2 tool, as appropriate.
RESULTS: The most prevalent population was breast cancer patients, followed by gynaecological cancer patients. Overall, the focus was on vaginal dryness, while vaginal stenosis was the primary outcome in gynaecological cancer patients. Significant discrepancies were found in the frequency and severity of the reported adverse events. Most studies in this review evaluated side effects using patient-reported outcome measures (PROMs).
CONCLUSIONS: Genitourinary syndrome of menopause following cancer treatment is most frequently documented in breast and gynaecological cancer patients, often focussing on vaginal dryness and vaginal stenosis based on PROMs. This review provides a complete overview of the literature, but more high-quality clinical trials are necessary to draw firm conclusions on acute and chronic vaginal toxicity following cancer treatment.
IMPLICATIONS FOR CANCER SURVIVORS: This review could help improve the current preventive and curative management options for genitourinary complications, thereby increasing the patient's QoL and sexual functioning.

Citation: Claes M, et al. Cancer therapy-related vaginal toxicity: its prevalence and assessment methods-a systematic review. Cancer therapy-related vaginal toxicity: its prevalence and assessment methods-a systematic review. 2024; (unknown volume):(unknown pages). doi: 10.1007/s11764-024-01553-y

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38383907/
