PMID: 38385856
Title: Early endovascular approaches for treating acute mesenteric arterial occlusive disease in hemodialysis patients.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Among hemodialysis patients, acute superior mesenteric artery (SMA) thrombosis a condition with a high mortality rate. Very few larger case series have been reported.
METHOD: We reviewed eight hemodialysis patients with diabetes mellitus and SMA thrombosis managed with endovascular therapy in our institution. Demographic, clinical, and radiological data were described. The patency of the SMA was assessed by computed tomography angiography (CTA) at one month after the endovascular procedure. At the last visit, clinical symptoms and check of mortality were recorded.
RESULTS: Multidetector CTA scan revealed severe stenosis of SMA in 6 patients and SMA occlusion in the other two patients. The severe stenosis of SMA were verified by angiography. Balloon angioplasty without stenting was performed to obtain satisfactory patency of SMA. Seven of eight patients achieved resolution of abdominal pain after the endovascular procedure. One patient died of suspected intestinal necrosis after 6 days of balloon angioplasty. All seven surviving patients did not experience a recurrence of symptoms with a median follow-up of 2 years. No significant residual stenotic or occlusive lesions were noted in follow-up CTA at one month after the endovascular procedure.
CONCLUSION: SMA thrombosis should be systematically suspected in hemodialysis patients experiencing abdominal pain. Prompt diagnosis of SMA thrombosis as soon as possible and early endovascular therapy are required to obtain a favorable prognosis in the hemodialysis patient with SMA thrombosis.

Citation: Qu S, et al. Early endovascular approaches for treating acute mesenteric arterial occlusive disease in hemodialysis patients. Early endovascular approaches for treating acute mesenteric arterial occlusive disease in hemodialysis patients. 2024; 28:241-246. doi: 10.1111/hdi.13139

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38385856/
