PMID: 38388248
Title: The utility and impact of outpatient telemetry monitoring in post-transcatheter aortic valve replacement patients.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Conduction disturbances are a common complication of transcatheter aortic valve replacement (TAVR). Mobile Cardiac Telemetry (MCT) allows for continuous monitoring with near "real time" alerts and has allowed for timely detection of conduction abnormalities and pacemaker placement in small trials. A standardized, systematic approach utilizing MCT devices post TAVR has not been widely implemented, leading to variation in use across hospital systems.
OBJECTIVES: Our aim was to evaluate the utility of a standardized, systematic approach utilizing routine MCT to facilitate safe and earlier discharge by identifying conduction disturbances requiring permanent pacemaker (PPM) placement. We also sought to assess the occurrence of actionable arrhythmias in post-TAVR patients.
METHODS: Using guidance from the JACC Scientific Expert Panel, a protocol was implemented starting in December 2019 to guide PPM placement post-TAVR across our health system. All patients who underwent TAVR from December 2019 to June 2021 across four hospitals within Northwell Health, who did not receive or have a pre-existing PPM received an MCT device at discharge and were monitored for 30 days. Clinical and follow-up data were collected and compared to pre initiative patients.
RESULTS: During the initiative 693 patients were monitored with MCT upon discharge, 21 of whom required PPM placement. Eight of these patients had no conduction abnormality on initial or discharge ECG. 59 (8.6 %) patients were found to have new atrial fibrillation or flutter via MCT monitoring. There were no adverse events in the initiative group. Prior to the initiative, 1281 patients underwent TAVR over a one-year period. The initiative group had significantly shorter length of stay than pre-initiative patients (2.5 ± 4.5 vs 3.0 ± 3.8 days, p < 0.001) and lower overall PPM placement rate within 30 days post-TAVR (16 % vs 20.5 %, P = 0.0125).
CONCLUSIONS: In our study, implementation of a standardized, systematic approach utilizing MCT in post-TAVR patients was safe and allowed for timely detection of conduction abnormalities requiring pacemaker placement. This strategy also detected new atrial fibrillation and flutter. Reduction in post TAVR pacemaker rate and length of stay were also noted although this effect is multifactorial.

Citation: Beccarino N, et al. The utility and impact of outpatient telemetry monitoring in post-transcatheter aortic valve replacement patients. The utility and impact of outpatient telemetry monitoring in post-transcatheter aortic valve replacement patients. 2024; 64:15-20. doi: 10.1016/j.carrev.2024.02.012

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38388248/
