PMID: 38384894
Title: Optimal lesion preparation before implantation of a Magmaris bioresorbable scaffold in patients with coronary artery stenosis: Rationale, design and methodology of the OPTIMIS study.

Abstract: INTRODUCTION: Percutaneous coronary intervention with implantation of a bioresorbable scaffold (BRS) provide the vessel support for a limited period allowing the vessel to restore normal vasomotion after degradation of the BRS, opposed to treatment with drug-eluting stents where the metal persist in the vessel wall. Late lumen loss and reduction in lumen area after implantation have been reported. The purpose of this study was to investigate whether intense pre-dilatation before BRS implantation resulted in less reduction of minimal lumen area at 6- and 12-month follow-up after implantation of a Magmaris BRS (MgBRS). Coronary imaging with optical coherence tomography (OCT) and intravascular ultrasound (IVUS) was assessed to track changes in lumen and vessel dimensions.
METHODS: The prospective Optimal lesion PreparaTion before Implantation of the Magmaris bioresorbable scaffold In patients with coronary artery Stenosis (OPTIMIS) study randomly assigned eighty-two patients with chronic coronary syndrome to two pre-dilatation treatment strategies. Patients were randomized in a 1:1 ratio to pre-dilatation with either a non-compliant scoring balloon or a standard non-compliant balloon prior to implantation of a MgBRS. The treated segment was evaluated with OCT and IVUS at baseline, after 6 and 12 months to assess changes in lumen and vessel dimensions. The hypothesis was that more intense pre-dilatation with a non-compliant scoring balloon before MgBRS implantation can reduce the risk of late lumen reduction compared to standard pre-dilatation. The power calculation used expected MLA after 6 months (6.22 mm2 for the scoring balloon and 5.01 mm2 for the standard non-compliant balloon), power of 80 %, significance level of 0.05 and expected drop-out rate of 15 %, requiring 82 patients to be enrolled.
RESULTS: Eighty-two patients were included in the study. Enrollment was from December 2020 to September 2023.
CONCLUSION: The hypothesis was that more intense pre-dilatation with a non-compliant scoring balloon before MgBRS implantation can reduce the risk of late lumen reduction compared to standard pre-dilatation.

Citation: Hansen KN, et al. Optimal lesion preparation before implantation of a Magmaris bioresorbable scaffold in patients with coronary artery stenosis: Rationale, design and methodology of the OPTIMIS study. Optimal lesion preparation before implantation of a Magmaris bioresorbable scaffold in patients with coronary artery stenosis: Rationale, design and methodology of the OPTIMIS study. 2024; 38:101260. doi: 10.1016/j.conctc.2024.101260

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38384894/
