PMID: 38395345
Title: Preoperative Risk Factors Impacting Length of Stay After Transcarotid Artery Revascularization.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Transcarotid artery revascularization (TCAR), using interoperative flow reversal is a unique, hybrid operation utilized in treating critical carotid artery stenosis. Over the past decade, TCAR has been increasingly used to treat asymptomatic carotid artery disease and has a similar risk profile to traditional carotid endarterectomy. Postoperative length of stay (LOS) has a significant impact on cost-effectiveness and quality outcomes in this expanded setting. The objective of this study is to develop a multivariate regression model to identify key preoperative variables and their impact factor on LOS after TCAR for asymptomatic carotid artery stenosis. We hypothesized that high-risk preoperative patient factors historically identified in carotid endarterectomy would similarly impact LOS after TCAR.
METHODS: A multi-institution, retrospective study of all adult patients undergoing TCAR with flow-reversal for intraoperative neuroprotection was performed using the Society for Vascular Surgery Vascular Quality Initiative (VQI) from January 2016 to August 2021. Patients with prolonged preoperative hospitalization (preoperative LOS ≥1 day) were excluded to enhance the capture of carotid artery stenosis as the index admission. Univariate analysis was done on preoperative factors against LOS using nonparametric statistical tests. A multivariate model was then constructed using a negative binomial regression. The study population was split into 80% "training" data for model formulation and 20% "test" data for model validation.
RESULTS: Thirteen thousand four hundred eighty-three patients undergoing TCAR for asymptomatic carotid stenosis met the study's inclusion criteria with a median postoperative LOS of 1.82 days. Factors in VQI found to have a significant effect on LOS and retained in the multivariate model were lesion type (restenosis versus atherosclerotic), age, gender, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, preoperative beta blocker, calcific lesion burden, hypertension status, and race (P < 0.05). The model accurately predicted LOS after TCAR within 1 day for 86.04% and within 2 days for 94.51% of patients in the test population.
CONCLUSIONS: This large-scale analysis from 2016 to 2021 spans a considerable expansion in the practice of TCAR for asymptomatic carotid disease. All preoperative variables shown to significantly increase the postoperative LOS were derived from the VQI data set. As LOS is a measure of health-care efficiency and cost-effectiveness, this model can be used to identify patients at risk for increased postoperative LOS. It has the potential to be incorporated into a patient/physician decision support tool to optimize resource planning and patient selection for elective TCAR.

Citation: Weissberg JC, et al. Preoperative Risk Factors Impacting Length of Stay After Transcarotid Artery Revascularization. Preoperative Risk Factors Impacting Length of Stay After Transcarotid Artery Revascularization. 2024; 103:109-121. doi: 10.1016/j.avsg.2023.12.073

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38395345/
