PMID: 38393421
Title: Successful sutureless repair of multiple left ventricular free wall ruptures due to Takotsubo cardiomyopathy: a case report.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Takotsubo cardiomyopathy (TCM) is a temporary and reversible systolic abnormality of the left ventricular apical area resembling a myocardial infarction. Cardiac rupture due to TCM is a rare but fatal complication. Without cardiac surgery, 94% of patients with left ventricular free wall rupture (LVFWR) due to TCM die. Furthermore, successful surgical cases are rare. We report herein the successful treatment of multiple LVFWRs due to TCM using a sutureless repair.
CASE PRESENTATION: An 80-year-old man quarreled with his daughter and had a sudden onset of chest pain. He was transferred to our hospital in shock. Electrocardiography showed ST elevation and contrast-enhanced computed tomography revealed a bloody pericardial effusion. Emergent coronary angiography showed no significant stenosis. Cardiac arrest ensued because of cardiac tamponade. Emergent surgery was undertaken and three oozing lacerations on the lateral and inferior walls were noted. A sutureless repair was performed using TachoSil® patches. We also applied Surgicel Nu-Knit® absorbable hemostat with Hydrofit® where TachoSil® failed to completely adhere because of hematoma formation and achieved complete hemostasis. We diagnosed the ruptures due to TCM according to the Mayo criteria. The patient was discharged on postoperative day 71.
CONCLUSIONS: A sutureless repair using TachoSil® patches and Surgicel® with Hydrofit® is a minimally invasive and effective method for the treatment of multiple LVFWRs due to TCM.

Citation: Yasumura H, et al. Successful sutureless repair of multiple left ventricular free wall ruptures due to Takotsubo cardiomyopathy: a case report. Successful sutureless repair of multiple left ventricular free wall ruptures due to Takotsubo cardiomyopathy: a case report. 2024; 10:47. doi: 10.1186/s40792-024-01848-3

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38393421/
