PMID: 38390797
Title: Transcatheter Aortic Valve Implantation Wait-Time Management: Derivation and Validation of the Canadian TAVI Triage Tool (CAN3T).

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Transcatheter aortic valve implantation (TAVI) has seen indication expansion and thus exponential growth in demand over the past decade. In many jurisdictions, the growing demand has outpaced capacity, increasing wait times and preprocedural adverse events. In this study, we derived prediction models that estimate the risk of adverse events on the waitlist and developed a triage tool to identify patients who should be prioritized for TAVI.
METHODS AND RESULTS: We included adult patients in Ontario, Canada referred for TAVI and followed up until one of the following events first occurred: death, TAVI procedure, removal from waitlist, or end of the observation period. We used subdistribution hazards models to find significant predictors for each of the following outcomes: (1) all-cause death while on the waitlist; (2) all-cause hospitalization while on the waitlist; (3) receipt of urgent TAVI; and (4) a composite outcome. The median predicted risk at 12 weeks was chosen as a threshold for a maximum acceptable risk while on the waitlist and incorporated in the triage tool to recommend individualized wait times. Of 13 128 patients, 586 died while on the waitlist, and 4343 had at least 1 hospitalization. A total of 6854 TAVIs were completed, of which 1135 were urgent procedures. We were able to create parsimonious models for each outcome that included clinically relevant predictors.
CONCLUSIONS: The Canadian TAVI Triage Tool (CAN3T) is a triage tool to assist clinicians in the prioritization of patients who should have timely access to TAVI. We anticipate that the CAN3T will be a valuable tool as it may improve equity in access to care, reduce preventable adverse events, and improve system efficiency.

Citation: Miranda RN, et al. Transcatheter Aortic Valve Implantation Wait-Time Management: Derivation and Validation of the Canadian TAVI Triage Tool (CAN3T). Transcatheter Aortic Valve Implantation Wait-Time Management: Derivation and Validation of the Canadian TAVI Triage Tool (CAN3T). 2024; 13:e033768. doi: 10.1161/JAHA.123.033768

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38390797/
