PMID: 38394548
Title: Perioperative care of neonates with critical pulmonary stenosis: Case report.

Abstract: RATIONALE: Summarizing the perioperative nursing experience in the successful treatment of 4 neonates with critical pulmonary stenosis (CPS).
PATIENT CONCERNS: Of the 4 patients, 3 had postnatal shortness of breath and varying degrees of cyanosis, aggravated by crying and noise, and 1 had no obvious shortness of breath and cyanosis. The preoperative auscultation of the precordial region could be heard 3-4/6 systolic murmur; echocardiography was diagnosed as CPS, combined with patent ductus arteriosus, right ventricular dysplasia, and severe tricuspid regurgitation. Four children were treated with prostaglandin 5 ng/(kg-min) to maintain a certain degree of pulmonary blood flow to improve hypoxemia, effectively preventing ductus arteriosus from closure, and the infusion was discontinued 2 hours prior to the operation. Three of the children required ventilator-assisted respiration to relieve severe hypoxia and correct acidosis before surgery.
DIAGNOSIS: Neonatal CPS was diagnosed.
INTERVENTIONS: Four neonates with rapidly developing conditions were admitted to the hospital, a multidisciplinary in-hospital consultation was organized immediately, and a multidisciplinary collaborative team was set up, consisting of medical doctors and nurses from the medical department, the neonatal intensive care unit, cardiovascular medicine, cardiac ultrasound room, anesthesiology department, and radiology and interventional medicine department. The multidisciplinary team evaluated the treatment modality of the children and finally decided to perform percutaneous balloon pulmonary valvuloplasty. The surgical team included specialists from the Department of Cardiovascular Medicine, Department of Interventional Radiology, Cardiac Ultrasound Unit, and Department of Anesthesiology.
OUTCOMES: All 4 neonates were successfully operated and discharged from the hospital. Multidisciplinary follow-up interventions were carried out 1 year after discharge, and the children were in good condition.
LESSONS: The specialty nursing-led multidisciplinary collaboration model significantly improves the professional competence of nurses from various specialties, promotes the integration and development of multispecialty disciplines, and provides better quality services for children, which is the key to improving the success rate of percutaneous balloon pulmonary valvuloplasty in neonates.

Citation: He Q, et al. Perioperative care of neonates with critical pulmonary stenosis: Case report. Perioperative care of neonates with critical pulmonary stenosis: Case report. 2024; 103:e37203. doi: 10.1097/MD.0000000000037203

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38394548/
