PMID: 38395087
Title: Long-term remission of infantile Takayasu arteritis associated with germline CBL syndrome after allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation: A case report and literature review.

Abstract: Takayasu arteritis (TA) is a large-vessel vasculitis that rarely presents in infancy. Casitas B-lineage lymphoma (CBL) syndrome is a rare genetic disorder due to heterozygous CBL gene germline pathogenic variants that is characterized by a predisposition to develop juvenile myelomonocytic leukemia (JMML). Vasculitis, including TA, has been reported in several patients. Herein, we describe a patient with CBL syndrome, JMML, and TA, developing long-term remission of this vasculitis after allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplant (HSCT), and perform a literature review of CBL syndrome with vasculitis or vasculopathy. We report a female patient with growth delay, developmental issues, and congenital heart disease who was admitted at 14 months of age with massive splenomegaly, lymphadenopathy, fever, and hypertension. Body imaging studies revealed arterial stenosis and wall inflammation of the aorta and multiple thoracic and abdominal branches. Whole exome sequencing revealed a pathogenic variant in CBL with loss of heterozygosity in blood cells, diagnosing CBL syndrome, complicated by JMML and TA. Allogeneic HSCT induced remission of JMML and TA, permitting discontinuation of immunosuppression after 12 months. Six years later, her TA is in complete remission off therapy. A literature review identified 18 additional cases of CBL syndrome with vasculitis or vasculopathy. The pathogenesis of vasculitis in CBL syndrome appears to involve dysregulated T cell function and possibly increased angiogenesis. This case advances the understanding of vascular involvement in CBL syndrome and of the genetic, immune, and vascular interplay in TA, offering insights for treating CBL syndrome and broader TA.

Citation: Munoz-Osores E, et al. Long-term remission of infantile Takayasu arteritis associated with germline CBL syndrome after allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation: A case report and literature review. Long-term remission of infantile Takayasu arteritis associated with germline CBL syndrome after allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation: A case report and literature review. 2024; 83:102013. doi: 10.1016/j.trim.2024.102013

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38395087/
