PMID: 38395342
Title: Feasibility and Intermediate Results of Transcarotid Revascularization with a Prosthetic Conduit.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Transcarotid artery revascularization (TCAR) is a hybrid technique with excellent initial outcomes. The technical success and safety of TCAR is heavily dependent on an anatomically suitable common carotid artery (CCA). Many patients do not meet anatomic criteria and therefore are not eligible for this therapy. We sought to extend the eligibility of TCAR to patients with unfavorable CCA anatomy via the adoption of a prosthetic arterial conduit.
METHODS: A single-center retrospective study of patients with critical carotid artery stenosis who underwent TCAR via a prosthetic conduit between June 2019 and October 2021 was performed. All patients in the study were considered high-risk for carotid endarterectomy based on anatomic features, such as restenosis post-carotid endarterectomy and neck radiation. Unfavorable CCA anatomy was defined as a clavicle to carotid bifurcation distance <5 cm, a CCA diameter <6 mm, and/or significant atherosclerotic disease at the intended arterial access site. The primary outcome of interest was technical success. Secondary outcomes included perioperative complications, intermediate and long-term patency, intermediate and long-term stroke and/or mortality and in-hospital length of stay. Follow-up ranged from 1 to 29 months.
RESULTS: Eight patients underwent 10 TCAR procedures via a prosthetic conduit. A total of 2 procedures (20%) were performed on female patients and 8 procedures (75%) were performed on male patients. The mean age was 65 years old (standard deviation 11 years). Technical success was 100%. The 30-day ipsilateral stroke rate was 0%. The 30-day patency was 90%. There was no re-exploration for hemorrhage and 30 day mortality was 0%.
CONCLUSIONS: TCAR is an excellent option for carotid artery revascularization. Unfavorable CCA anatomy has limited its applicability. TCAR via a prosthetic conduit has the potential to expand eligibility for this promising therapy.

Citation: Cui CL, et al. Feasibility and Intermediate Results of Transcarotid Revascularization with a Prosthetic Conduit. Feasibility and Intermediate Results of Transcarotid Revascularization with a Prosthetic Conduit. 2024; 103:74-80. doi: 10.1016/j.avsg.2023.12.075

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38395342/
