PMID: 38395095
Title: Pathology-based brain arterial disease phenotypes and their radiographic correlates.

Abstract: INTRODUCTION: Brain arterial diseases, including atherosclerosis, vasculitis, and dissections, are major contributors to cerebrovascular morbidity and mortality worldwide. These diseases not only increase the risk of stroke but also play a significant role in neurodegeneration and dementia. Clear and unambiguous terminology and classification of brain arterial disease phenotypes is crucial for research and clinical practice.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: This review aims to summarize and harmonize the terminology used for brain large and small arterial phenotypes based on pathology studies and relate them to imaging phenotypes used in medical research and clinical practice.
CONCLUSIONS AND RESULTS: Arteriosclerosis refers to hardening of the arteries but does not specify the underlying etiology. Specific terms such as atherosclerosis, calcification, or non-atherosclerotic fibroplasia are preferred. Atherosclerosis is defined pathologically by an atheroma. Other brain arterial pathologies occur and should be distinguished from atherosclerosis given therapeutic implications. On brain imaging, intracranial arterial luminal stenosis is usually attributed to atherosclerosis in the presence of atherosclerotic risk factors but advanced high-resolution arterial wall imaging has the potential to more accurately identify the underlying pathology. Regarding small vessel disease, arteriosclerosis is ambiguous and arteriolosclerosis is often used to denote the involvement of arterioles rather than arteries. Lipohyalinosis is sometimes used synonymously with arteriolosclerosis, but less accurately describes this common small vessel thickening which uncommonly shows lipid. Specific measures of small vessel wall thickness, the relationship to the lumen as well as changes in the layer composition might convey objective, measurable data regarding the status of brain small vessels.

Citation: Gutierrez J, et al. Pathology-based brain arterial disease phenotypes and their radiographic correlates. Pathology-based brain arterial disease phenotypes and their radiographic correlates. 2024; 33:107642. doi: 10.1016/j.jstrokecerebrovasdis.2024.107642

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38395095/
