PMID: 38405630
Title: The value of PMCTA in the diagnosis of coronary atherosclerosis in isolated human hearts.

Abstract: UNLABELLED: Postmortem computed tomography (PMCT) has a limited value in investigating coronary artery disease, despite several obvious advantages over the conventional autopsy. To address this issue, postmortem computed tomography angiography (PMCTA) has been introduced into various studies, where it has been used to investigate natural and unnatural deaths involving vascular damage, occlusion, or other pathologies of the vascular system. To investigate the application value of PMCTA in the diagnosis of coronary artery stenosis in ex situ hearts, the water-based contrast media were injected into isolated hearts, scaned, and finally compared with gold standards (autopsy and histology findings of the coronary artery). This study involved 16 subjects from the Academy of Forensic Science who were suspected to have died of sudden death without traumatic injuries. Unenhanced PMCT was performed first, followed by PMCTA using a water-based contrast agent, injected into the coronary arteries of isolated hearts using a self-designed angiography device. The image data were reconstructed into three-dimensional (3D) angiography images using software in the angiography facility. The 3D images were recorded and evaluated by two radiologists and then statistically analysed. The results of PMCTA were consistent with the gold standards for the diagnosis of coronary artery stenosis (P &gt; 0.05). However, water-based contrast media can only be used to examine the pathological changes of blood vessels, which may have limitations in the diagnosis of causes of death such as myocardial oedema. PMCTA can be used as a new method to evaluate the degree of coronary atherosclerosis in addition to traditional autopsy. The 3D reconstruction technique reveals the coronary artery lesions more objectively and vividly and provides the opportunity to re-read the data at any time.
KEY POINTS: The methods and parameters for coronary angiography in isolated human hearts were standardized based on the previous researcher.PMCTA in isolated human hearts is including the 3D reconstruction technique that reveals the coronary artery lesions more objectively and vividly, and provides the opportunity to re-read the data at anytime.PMCTA could only be used to examine the pathological changes of blood vessels, which might have limitations for the diagnosis of causes of death.PMCTA in isolated human hearts can be viewed as an auxiliary method for establishing the cause of death, which can provide an assessment of degree and extent of arterial stenosis and accurately help determine the abnormal location.

Citation: Wan L, et al. The value of PMCTA in the diagnosis of coronary atherosclerosis in isolated human hearts. The value of PMCTA in the diagnosis of coronary atherosclerosis in isolated human hearts. 2023; 8:308-312. doi: 10.1093/fsr/owad038

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38405630/
