PMID: 38417467
Title: Routine Imaging After Bulbar Urethral Reconstruction Does Not Impact Surgical Outcomes and May Not Be Necessary.

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: To assess whether omitting routine post-operative imaging adversely impacts clinical outcomes after bulbar urethroplasty. Contrast imaging is commonly performed prior to catheter removal after urethroplasty but the clinical need for this is unclear.
METHODS: This was a matched, case-control analysis comparing patients undergoing routine voiding cystourethrogram (VCUG) prior to catheter removal after bulbar urethroplasty to patients without imaging. Patients were matched with respect to age, stricture etiology, length, and urethroplasty technique. Follow-up consisted of clinical assessment 3 weeks post-operatively for VCUG/catheter removal, cystoscopy at 3-4 months with clinical assessment annually. Outcome measures were 90-day complications (Clavien ≥2) and stricture recurrence (failure to pass a 16-Fr flexible cystoscope on follow-up). Chi-square and Kaplan-Meier analysis were conducted where appropriate.
RESULTS: Hundred patients undergoing bulbar urethroplasty with VCUG prior to catheter removal were compared to 100 matched case controls without imaging. Groups did not differ with respect to failed endoscopic treatment (P = .82), prior urethroplasty (P = .09), comorbidities (P = .54), smoking (P = .42), or pre-operative bacteriuria (P = 1.00). The incidence of extravasation in the VCUG group was 2%. Overall 90-day complications were 9.5% and 15 patients developed recurrence with a median follow-up of 174 months. On chi-square analysis, 90-day complications did not differ between patients undergoing VCUG and those without (12% vs 7.0%; P = .34). On log-rank analysis, stricture recurrence did not differ between groups (P = .44).
CONCLUSION: Routine imaging with VCUG after bulbar urethroplasty does not influence the risk of post-operative complications or stricture recurrence. Surgeons should consider avoiding this potentially unnecessary examination in routine clinical practice.

Citation: Calvo CI and Rourke KF. Routine Imaging After Bulbar Urethral Reconstruction Does Not Impact Surgical Outcomes and May Not Be Necessary. Routine Imaging After Bulbar Urethral Reconstruction Does Not Impact Surgical Outcomes and May Not Be Necessary. 2024; 186:41-47. doi: 10.1016/j.urology.2024.02.029

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38417467/
