PMID: 38429544
Title: Endovascular stenting for cerebral venous sinus stenosis secondary to meningioma invasion.

Abstract: INTRODUCTION: Symptomatic intracranial hypertension (IH) due to venous outflow obstruction secondary to dural venous sinus (DVS) tumoral invasion affects up to 3% of intracranial meningioma patients. The literature regarding endovascular therapies of such patients is limited to a few case reports and a recent single-centre case series.
PURPOSE: We describe our single-centre experience of endovascular therapy in patients with clinically symptomatic IH secondary to DVS meningioma invasion.
METHODS: We performed a retrospective review of clinical and radiological data of all patients with refractory IH and meningiomas invading the DVS who were referred for possible DVS venoplasty and stenting. Seven endovascular procedures in six female patients were done. Presumed secondarily induced lateral transverse sinus stenosis was also stented in four patients as part of the primary intervention.
RESULTS: All patients experienced complete symptomatic resolution at 6-month follow-up. Five patients had no symptom recurrence over a mean follow-up period of 3.5 years. One patient with multiple meningiomas developed recurrent IH 2 years following stenting secondary to in-stent tumour re-invasion. This was re-stented with consequent 6 months post-retreatment symptomatic relief at the time of writing. No procedure-related complications occurred.
CONCLUSION: In the setting of DVS stenosis secondary to meningioma invasion, endovascular therapy is a safe and successful therapeutic option with promising mid-term results. The procedure should be considered in cases where complete surgical tumour resection is unlikely or carries a significant risk. If present, secondarily induced stenoses at the lateral ends of the transverse sinuses should also be considered for treatment.

Citation: Ahmed G, et al. Endovascular stenting for cerebral venous sinus stenosis secondary to meningioma invasion. Endovascular stenting for cerebral venous sinus stenosis secondary to meningioma invasion. 2024; 66:817-824. doi: 10.1007/s00234-024-03321-2

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38429544/
