PMID: 38428059
Title: Ultrasonography monitoring with Superb Microvascular Imaging during cerebrovascular surgery.

Abstract: INTRODUCTION: Ultrasonography (US) is used as a real-time dynamic imaging modality during neurosurgery. A novel Doppler US technique, Superb Microvascular Imaging (SMI), can be used to visualize low-velocity flow of small vessels at high resolution with high frame rates. We visualized vessel flow using this US SMI technique and contrast agent during cerebrovascular surgery.
METHODS: Forty-three patients with an unruptured cerebral aneurysm (control), ischemic and hemorrhagic moyamoya disease, carotid artery stenosis, hemangioblastoma, severe stenosis of the middle cerebral artery, venous angioma, and intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH) underwent neurosurgery with US SMI monitoring using a contrast agent. The diameter, length, and number of penetrating vessels were analyzed in patients with an unruptured cerebral aneurysm (control), moyamoya disease, and ICH.
RESULTS: Diameter and length of cerebral penetrating vessels were significantly increased in patients with moyamoya disease and ICH compared to control patients. The number of penetrating vessels was increased in moyamoya disease patients compared to control and ICH patients. In hemorrhagic moyamoya disease, flow in the penetrating vessels originated from a deep periventricular point and extended to the cerebral surface. Pulsatile cerebral aneurysms during clipping surgery and carotid artery stenosis during carotid endarterectomy were easily identified by SMI. Drastically increased vessel flow in patients with a hemangioblastoma or a venous angioma was observed.
CONCLUSION: Using the US SMI technique and contrast agent, we obtained useful flow information of the vascular disease structure and intracerebral deep small vessels during cerebrovascular surgery. Further quantitative analysis will be informative and helpful for cerebrovascular surgery.

Citation: Ishikawa M, et al. Ultrasonography monitoring with Superb Microvascular Imaging during cerebrovascular surgery. Ultrasonography monitoring with Superb Microvascular Imaging during cerebrovascular surgery. 2024; 238:108175. doi: 10.1016/j.clineuro.2024.108175

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38428059/
