PMID: 38425423
Title: Muscle activity and rehabilitation in spinal stenosis (MARSS) after conservative therapy and surgical decompression with or without fusion: Protocol for a partially randomized patient preference trial on rehabilitation timing.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Patients affected by lumbar spinal stenosis (LSS) suffer from a multifactorial degeneration of the lumbar spine resulting in narrowing of the neuroforamina and spinal canal, leading to various functional limitations. It remains unclear whether LSS patients after surgery would benefit from early post-operative rehabilitation, or if a delayed rehabilitation would be more advantageous. The purpose of this partially randomized patient preference trial is to evaluate the impact of post-operative rehabilitation timing as well as surgical intervention type on psychometric properties and functional outcomes in patients with LSS.
METHODS: Data for this patient preference trial are collected before and after surgical (decompression only or decompression and fusion) and rehabilitative interventions as well as six, 12 and 24 months after completing rehabilitation. The study participants are patients diagnosed with LSS who are at least 18 years old. After a medical check-up, participants will complete patient-reported outcome measures (PAREMO-20, SIBAR, FREM-8, SF-12, SFI, ODI) and different functional assessments (functional reach test, loaded reach test, handgrip strength, standing balance control, 6-min walk test).
ETHICS AND DISSEMINATION: The results of this study will be published through peer-reviewed publications and scientific contributions at national and international conferences. This research has been approved by the Institutional Review Board of Martin Luther University Halle-Wittenberg (reference number: 2022-128).

Citation: Kurz E, et al. Muscle activity and rehabilitation in spinal stenosis (MARSS) after conservative therapy and surgical decompression with or without fusion: Protocol for a partially randomized patient preference trial on rehabilitation timing. Muscle activity and rehabilitation in spinal stenosis (MARSS) after conservative therapy and surgical decompression with or without fusion: Protocol for a partially randomized patient preference trial on rehabilitation timing. 2024; 38:101273. doi: 10.1016/j.conctc.2024.101273

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38425423/
