PMID: 38425823
Title: The Effect of Unintended Facet Arthrodesis on the Treatment Outcome of Dynamic Neutralization System for Lumbar Degenerative Diseases.

Abstract: PURPOSE: This study aimed to examine the influence of unintended facet arthrodesis on the therapeutic effectiveness of the dynamic neutralization system (Dynesys).
METHODS: This retrospective study enrolled consecutive patients who underwent posterior decompression and dynamic stabilization for lumbar spondylosis or spinal stenosis. Follow-up assessments included lumbar radiography, lumbar vertebral computerized tomography (CT), visual analog scale (VAS), and Oswestry disability index (ODI). Patients were classified into the facet fusion and non-fusion groups. The differences in the VAS scores for back pain and leg pain, ODI, intervertebral range of motion (ROM) at the surgical segments, and upper adjacent segments were assessed before and after treatment.
RESULTS: A total of 49 patients (29 males and 20 females) aged 31-65 years were enrolled and followed-up for over 40 months. Among the patients, 16 (32.7%) experienced unintended facet arthrodesis and were assigned to the fusion group, whereas the remaining patients were assigned to the non-fusion group. There was a significant increase in the incidence of facet arthrodesis in the surgical segments over time post-surgery (χ2 = 6.2, p &lt; 0.05). The ROM of the surgical and upper adjacent segments, VAS scores for back pain and leg pain, and ODI were all significantly different before and after the operation (p &lt; 0.05), but not between the fusion and non-fusion groups (p &gt; 0.05).
CONCLUSION: Although unintended facet arthrodesis is common after Dynesys procedure, the presence of facet arthrodesis does not significantly affect the efficacy of Dynesys in treating lumbar degenerative diseases.

Citation: Miao L, et al. The Effect of Unintended Facet Arthrodesis on the Treatment Outcome of Dynamic Neutralization System for Lumbar Degenerative Diseases. The Effect of Unintended Facet Arthrodesis on the Treatment Outcome of Dynamic Neutralization System for Lumbar Degenerative Diseases. 2024; 58:271-277. doi: 10.1007/s43465-023-01088-x

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38425823/
