PMID: 38447392
Title: Orosomucoid 2 as a biomarker of carotid artery atherosclerosis plaque vulnerability through its generation of reactive oxygen species and lipid accumulation in vascular smooth muscle cells.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Orosomucoid (ORM) has been reported as a biomarker of carotid atherosclerosis, but the role of ORM 2, a subtype of ORM, in carotid atherosclerotic plaque formation and the underlying mechanism have not been established.
METHODS: Plasma was collected from patients with carotid artery stenosis (CAS) and healthy participants and assessed using mass spectrometry coupled with isobaric tags for relative and absolute quantification (iTRAQ) technology to identify differentially expressed proteins. The key proteins and related pathways were identified via western blotting, immunohistochemistry, and polymerase chain reaction of carotid artery plaque tissues and in vitro experiments involving vascular smooth muscle cells (VSMCs).
RESULTS: We screened 33 differentially expressed proteins out of 535 proteins in the plasma. Seventeen proteins showed increased expressions in the CAS groups relative to the healthy groups, while 16 proteins showed decreased expressions during iTRAQ and bioinformatic analysis. The reactive oxygen species metabolic process was the most common enrichment pathway identified by Gene Ontology analysis, while ORM2, PRDX2, GPX3, HP, HBB, ANXA5, PFN1, CFL1, and S100A11 were key proteins identified by STRING and MCODE analysis. ORM2 showed increased expression in patients with CAS plaques, and ORM2 was accumulated in smooth muscle cells. Oleic acid increased the lipid accumulation and ORM2 and PRDX6 expressions in the VSMCs. The recombinant-ORM2 also increased the lipid accumulation and reactive oxygen species (ROS) in the VSMCs. The expressions of ORM2 and PRDX-6 were correlated, and MJ33 (an inhibitor of PRDX6-PLA2) decreased ROS production and lipid accumulation in VSMCs.
CONCLUSION: ORM2 may be a biomarker for CAS; it induced lipid accumulation and ROS production in VSMCs during atherosclerosis plaque formation. However, the relationships between ORM2 and PRDX-6 underlying lipid accumulation-induced plaque vulnerability require further research.

Citation: Che Y, et al. Orosomucoid 2 as a biomarker of carotid artery atherosclerosis plaque vulnerability through its generation of reactive oxygen species and lipid accumulation in vascular smooth muscle cells. Orosomucoid 2 as a biomarker of carotid artery atherosclerosis plaque vulnerability through its generation of reactive oxygen species and lipid accumulation in vascular smooth muscle cells. 2024; 705:149736. doi: 10.1016/j.bbrc.2024.149736

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38447392/
