PMID: 38446024
Title: Hybrid robotic-assisted coronary revascularization and transcatheter aortic valve replacement: a single-center experience.

Abstract: OBJECTIVES: The efficacy of hybrid robotic-assisted coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG) and transcatheter aortic valve replacement (TAVR) for coronary and aortic valve disease is poorly reported. Herein, we report our experience with this hybrid approach.
METHODS: Between January 2018 and June 2022, 10 (7 male, 3 female) patients with a mean age of 81 years underwent the hybrid procedure. Coronary revascularization was performed prior to TAVR with robotic-assisted left internal mammary artery-to-left anterior descending (LAD) bypass grafting for left main or proximal LAD lesions with or without multivessel disease with or without hybrid percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI).
RESULTS: Five patients had left main disease, and 5 had proximal LAD disease with or without multivessel disease. All patients tolerated the robotic-assisted CABG procedure well; 9 patients were extubated in the operating room and all patients were ambulatory on postoperative day 1. Five patients underwent hybrid PCI for non-LAD lesions. TAVR was subsequently performed at intervals ranging from 3 days to 5 months after CABG. One patient with end-stage renal disease on hemodialysis required hospitalization for heart failure during the interval period. The 1-year mortality rate was 0%, and 3 patients died during late follow-up (24-43 months).
CONCLUSIONS: This innovative, less invasive approach demonstrates the potential for early recovery in appropriately selected patients with complex coronary and aortic valve disease with promising mid-term outcomes.

Citation: Yamashita Y, et al. Hybrid robotic-assisted coronary revascularization and transcatheter aortic valve replacement: a single-center experience. Hybrid robotic-assisted coronary revascularization and transcatheter aortic valve replacement: a single-center experience. 2024; 36:(unknown pages). doi: 10.25270/jic/23.00308

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38446024/
