PMID: 38443819
Title: A case with multiple nodules and mucosal oedema of the trachea and both bronchi induced by IgG4-related disease.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: IgG4-related disease is a systemic fibroinflammatory disease that is mainly seen in older men, and involves multiple organs, such as the pancreas and lungs. However, 75% of patients with IgG4-related lung disease are asymptomatic (if they are symptomatic, they mainly complain of nasal congestion, rhinorrhoea, chest pain, and cough) and are incidentally diagnosed through chest computed tomograph. Although, nodules in the airway and bronchial wall thickening are criteria for diagnosis, it is important that nodules have been reported in peripheral airways in several cases and rarely in the central airway.
CASE PRESENTATION: A 74-year-old woman previously diagnosed with Mikulicz's disease presented with swelling of the eyelid margin on both sides and visual disturbances. Computed tomography revealed extensive multiple nodules and mucosal oedema of the trachea and both bronchi. On flexible bronchoscopy under local anaesthesia, extensive lesions were observed from the middle of the trachea to the carina, extending into both segmental bronchi. The nodules were continuous with the normal respiratory tract mucosa, and the surfaces were smooth with minimal neovascularisation. Due to the solid nature of the lesion, obtaining an adequate amount of specimen was challenging. Therefore, we used a 1.9 mm cryoprobe under intubation, resulting in minimal bleeding. Subsequently, the patient was diagnosed with IgG4-related lung disease.
CONCLUSIONS: The present case is very rare because of the presence of multiple nodules, severe mucosal edema of the central airway and the absence of mediastinal lymphadenopathy, ground glass nodules, and lung masses. Therefore, it is important to consider differential diagnoses. Thus, we emphasise the importance of endobronchial cryobiopsy for obtaining an adequate number of tissue specimens in such cases to establish a definitive pathological diagnosis.

Citation: Torii A, et al. A case with multiple nodules and mucosal oedema of the trachea and both bronchi induced by IgG4-related disease. A case with multiple nodules and mucosal oedema of the trachea and both bronchi induced by IgG4-related disease. 2024; 24:115. doi: 10.1186/s12890-024-02926-w

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38443819/
