PMID: 38447810
Title: Anti-fibrotic and anti-stricture effects of biodegradable biliary stents braided with dexamethasone-impregnated sheath/core structured monofilaments.

Abstract: Endoscopic biliary stent insertion has been widely used for the treatment of benign biliary stricture (BBS). Thus, the development of stent materials in the perspectives of structure, mechanical properties, and biocompatibility has been also studied. However, conventional metal and plastic stents have several disadvantages, such as repeated procedures to remove or exchange them, dislodgment, restenosis, biocompatibility, and poor mechanical properties. Sustainable effectiveness, attenuation and prevention of fibrosis, and biocompatibility are key factors for the clinical application of stents to BBS treatment. In addition, loading drugs could show synergistic effects with stents' own performance. We developed a dexamethasone-eluting biodegradable stent (DBS) consisting of a sheath/core structure with outstanding mechanical properties and sustained release of dexamethasone, which maintained its functions in a BBS duct over 12 weeks in a swine model. The insertion of our DBS not only expanded BBS areas but also healed secondary ulcers as a result of the attenuation of fibrosis. After 16 weeks from the insertion, BBS areas were totally improved, and the DBS was degraded and thoroughly disappeared without re-intervention for stent removal. Our DBS would be an effective clinical tool for non-vascular diseases. STATEMENT OF SIGNIFICANCE: This study describes the insertion of a drug-eluting biodegradable stent (DBS) into the bile duct. The sheath/core structure of DBS confers substantial durability and a sustained drug release profile. Drug released from the DBS exhibited anti-fibrotic effects without inflammatory responses in both in vitro and in vivo experiments. The DBS maintained its function over 12 weeks after insertion into the common bile duct, expanding benign biliary stricture (BBS) and reducing inflammation to heal secondary ulcers in a swine BBS model. After 16 weeks from the DBS insertion, the DBS thoroughly disappeared without re-intervention for stent removal, resulting in totally improved BBS areas. Our findings not only spotlight the understanding of the sheath/core structure of the biodegradable stent, but also pave the way for the further application for non-vascular diseases.

Citation: Lee JR, et al. Anti-fibrotic and anti-stricture effects of biodegradable biliary stents braided with dexamethasone-impregnated sheath/core structured monofilaments. Anti-fibrotic and anti-stricture effects of biodegradable biliary stents braided with dexamethasone-impregnated sheath/core structured monofilaments. 2024; 178:137-146. doi: 10.1016/j.actbio.2024.02.037

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38447810/
