PMID: 38451097
Title: Completely Minimally Invasive Implant Removal and Transforaminal Lumbar Interbody Fusion for Adjacent Segment Disease: Case Series and Operative Video.

Abstract: BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES: Adjacent segment disease is a relatively common late complication after lumbar fusion. If symptomatic, certain patients require fusion of the degenerated adjacent segment. Currently, there are no posterior completely minimally invasive techniques described for fusion of the adjacent segment above or below a previous fusion. We describe here a novel minimally invasive technique for both implant removal (MIS-IR) and adjacent level transforaminal lumbar interbody fusion (MIS-TLIF) for lumbar stenosis.
METHODS: Demographic, surgical, and radiographic outcome data were collected for patients with lumbar stenosis and previous lumbar fusion, who were treated with MIS-IR and MIS-TLIF through the same incision. Radiographic outcomes were assessed postoperatively and complications were assessed at the primary end point of 3 months.
RESULTS: A total of 14 patients (7 female and 7 male), with average age 64.6 years (SD 13.4), were included in this case series. Nine patients had single-level MIS-IR with single-level MIS-TLIF. Three patients had 2-level MIS-IR with single-level MIS-TLIF. Two patients had single-level MIS-IR with 2-level MIS-TLIF. Only 1 patient had a postoperative complication-hematoma requiring same-day evacuation. There were no other complications at the primary end point and no fusion failure at the hardware removal levels to date (average follow-up, 11 months). Average increases in posterior disk height and foraminal height after MIS-TLIF were 4.44, and 2.18 mm, respectively.
CONCLUSION: Minimally invasive spinal IR can be successfully completed along with adjacent level TLIF through the same incisions, via an all-posterior approach.

Citation: Kondapavulur S, et al. Completely Minimally Invasive Implant Removal and Transforaminal Lumbar Interbody Fusion for Adjacent Segment Disease: Case Series and Operative Video. Completely Minimally Invasive Implant Removal and Transforaminal Lumbar Interbody Fusion for Adjacent Segment Disease: Case Series and Operative Video. 2024; 27:322-328. doi: 10.1227/ons.0000000000001121

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38451097/
