PMID: 38459676
Title: Impact of carotid stenosis on the outcome of stroke patients submitted to reperfusion treatments: a narrative review.

Abstract: Intravenous thrombolysis (IT) and mechanical thrombectomy (MD) are the two interventional approaches that have changed the outcome of patients with acute ischemic stroke (AIS). Ipsilateral and contralateral carotid stenosis (ICS, CCS) play an important role in regulating cerebral hemodynamics, both in chronic and acute situations such as AIS. Several studies have explored their role in the incidence and severity of stroke, but very few have investigated the possible impact of ICS and CCS on the efficacy of interventional procedures. The purpose of this review was to I) highlight the incidence and prevalence of carotid stenosis (CS); II) assess the impact of ICS and CCS on cerebral hemodynamics; III) evaluate the effect of carotid stenosis on the efficacy of interventional therapies (IT and MT) for AIS; and IV) report therapeutic complications related to CS. We searched PubMed/Medline for case reports, reviews, and original research articles on English-language review topics during the period from January 1, 2000 to October 1, 2023. CS is associated with 15-20 % of the total number of AIS. ICS and CCS had a negative influence on both cerebral hemodynamics before AIS and outcome after interventional procedures (IT, MT alone or in bridging). Available data on cerebral hemodynamics and efficacy of interventional therapies for AIS suggest a negative role of CS. Therefore, early diagnosis of CS may be considered relevant to preventive and post-stroke treatment strategies.

Citation: Viticchi G, et al. Impact of carotid stenosis on the outcome of stroke patients submitted to reperfusion treatments: a narrative review. Impact of carotid stenosis on the outcome of stroke patients submitted to reperfusion treatments: a narrative review. 2024; 35:575-583. doi: 10.1515/revneuro-2024-0002

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38459676/
