PMID: 38455094
Title: Predicting future occlusion or stenosis of lower extremity bypass grafts using artificial intelligence to simultaneously analyze all flow velocities collected in current and previous ultrasound examinations.

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: Routine surveillance with duplex ultrasound (DUS) examination is recommended after femoral-popliteal and femoral-tibial-pedal vein bypass grafts with various intervals postoperatively. The presently used methodology to analyze bypass graft DUS examination does not use all the available data and has been shown to have a significant rate for missing impending bypass graft failure. The objective of this research is to investigate recurrent neural networks (RNNs) to predict future bypass graft occlusion or stenosis.
METHODS: This study includes DUS examinations of 663 patients who had bypass graft operations done between January 2009 and June 2022. Only examinations without missing values were included. We developed two RNNs (a bidirectional long short-term memory unit and a bidirectional gated recurrent unit) to predict bypass graft occlusion and stenosis based on peak systolic velocities collected in the 2 to 5 previous DUS examinations. We excluded the examinations with missing values and split our data into training and test sets. Then, we applied 10-fold cross-validation on training to optimize the hyperparameters and compared models using the test data.
RESULTS: The bidirectional long short-term memory unit model can gain an overall sensitivity of 0.939, specificity of 0.963, and area under the curve of 0.950 on the prediction of bypass graft occlusion, and an overall sensitivity of 0.915, specificity of 0.909, and area under the curve of 0.912 predicting the development of a future critical stenosis. The results on different bypass types show that the system performs differently on different types. The results on subcohorts based on gender, smoking status, and comorbidities show that the performance on current smokers is lower than the never smoker.
CONCLUSIONS: We found that RNNs can gain good sensitivity, specificity, and accuracy for the detection of impending bypass graft occlusion or the future development of a critical bypass graft stenosis using all the available peak systolic velocity data in the present and previous bypass graft DUS examinations. Integrating clinical data, including demographics, social determinants, medication, and other risk factors, together with the DUS examination may result in further improvements.
CLINICAL RELEVANCE: Detecting bypass graft failure before it occurs is important clinically to prevent amputations, salvage limbs, and save lives. Current methods evaluating screening duplex ultrasound examinations have a significant failure rate for detecting a bypass graft at risk for failure. Artificial intelligence using recurrent neural networks has the potential to improve the detection of at-risk bypass graft before they fail. Additionally, artificial intelligence is in the news and is being applied to many fields. Vascular surgeons need to know its potential to improve vascular outcomes.

Citation: Luo X, et al. Predicting future occlusion or stenosis of lower extremity bypass grafts using artificial intelligence to simultaneously analyze all flow velocities collected in current and previous ultrasound examinations. Predicting future occlusion or stenosis of lower extremity bypass grafts using artificial intelligence to simultaneously analyze all flow velocities collected in current and previous ultrasound examinations. 2024; 5:100192. doi: 10.1016/j.jvssci.2024.100192

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38455094/
