PMID: 38457578
Title: Unconsciousness as the main nonfocal symptom of anterior circulation transient ischemic attack: A case report.

Abstract: RATIONALE: Unconsciousness is a nonfocal symptom of transient ischemic attack (TIA) that is frequently observed in patients with vertebrobasilar artery stenosis or occlusion. Conversely, loss of consciousness due to anterior circulation involvement (e.g., middle cerebral artery [MCA]) is a rare occurrence in TIA.
PATIENT CONCERNS: This report describes a rare case in a 59-year-old woman who experienced recurrent episodes of altered consciousness because of the occlusion or stenosis of her MCAs.
DIAGNOSES: The diagnosis of the case was updated from TIA to acute cerebral infarction, finally. Following initial loss of consciousness, cranial magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) did not reveal any evidence of acute cerebral infarction. However, following the second and third episodes of unconsciousness, the MRI revealed multiple new acute cerebral infarcts affecting both the cerebral hemispheres. Further evaluation through digital subtraction angiography disclosed complete occlusion of the left MCA and severe stenosis of the right MCA.
INTERVENTIONS: Early in her illness, the patient was treated with vasodilators, aspirin and atorvastatin. Finally, 2 stents in her right and left MCAs were placed respectively, followed by treatment with aspirin, clopidogrel, and double-dosed atorvastatin calcium. Meanwhile, the patient focused on avoiding conditions which may lead to dehydration in her daily life routine.
OUTCOMES: The episodes of unconsciousness of this patient were completely resolved. During the 1-year postoperative follow-up, the patient remained clinically stable without any symptoms of unconsciousness, limb numbness or weakness, or dizziness.
LESSONS: These findings suggested that hypoperfusion in the bilateral cerebral hemispheres played a pivotal role in precipitating the patient episodes of unconsciousness. This case underscores the possibility that occlusion or severe stenosis in both MCAs can contribute to recurrent episodes of unconsciousness due to hypoperfusion. Moreover, it emphasizes the association between these episodes of unconsciousness and an increased risk of subsequent ischemic stroke.

Citation: Dong X, et al. Unconsciousness as the main nonfocal symptom of anterior circulation transient ischemic attack: A case report. Unconsciousness as the main nonfocal symptom of anterior circulation transient ischemic attack: A case report. 2024; 103:e37343. doi: 10.1097/MD.0000000000037343

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38457578/
