PMID: 38456307
Title: Application of echocardiography in transcatheter aortic valve replacement in patients with severe aortic regurgitation and correlation analysis of postprocedural complications.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Transcatheter aortic valve replacement (TAVR) is gradually becoming an alternative therapy for patients who cannot adapt to surgical treatment or have contraindications.
OBJECTIVES: The purpose of this study was to investigate the value of echocardiography in the evaluation of severe AR patients treated with TAVR and to analyze the correlations with postprocedural complications to improve the evaluation and screening of patients.
METHODS: We retrospectively analyzed clinical and echocardiographic data of 70 patients with severe AR. Periaortic valve structures were carefully measured by esophageal echocardiography (TEE) and compared with the multilayer slice computed tomography (MSCT) findings. Real-time three-dimensional esophageal echocardiography (RT-3D TEE) was monitored during the operation, and a 30-day postprocedural follow-up was performed. The relationship between postprocedural complications and patients' clinical data or periaortic valve structures was analyzed by multifactorial analysis to identify relevant predictors of complications.
RESULTS: The TEE measurements of periaortic valve structures were in good agreement with the MSCT measurements. Among the patients who underwent successful operations, both left atrial (LA) and left ventricular (LV) diameters were reduced, and the left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) was improved 30 days after TAVR compared with the preprocedural period (P < .05). Permanent pacemakers were implanted in 15 patients. The presence of preprocedural right bundle branch block (RBBB) (OR: 2.93; 95% CI: 1.18-12.70; P = .01) was an independent factor for permanent pacemaker implantation after TAVR.
CONCLUSIONS: Echocardiography plays an extremely important role in TAVR procedures. The presence of preprocedural RBBB can be an independent predictor of postprocedural pacemaker implantation.

Citation: Hu G, et al. Application of echocardiography in transcatheter aortic valve replacement in patients with severe aortic regurgitation and correlation analysis of postprocedural complications. Application of echocardiography in transcatheter aortic valve replacement in patients with severe aortic regurgitation and correlation analysis of postprocedural complications. 2024; 41:e15783. doi: 10.1111/echo.15783

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38456307/
