PMID: 38456957
Title: Transanal fistula repair for the treatment of rectovestibular fistula with normal anus in female children: a 5-year single-center experience.

Abstract: PURPOSE: The purpose of this study was to review a 5-year operative experience of transanal fistula repair for the treatment of rectovestibular fistula with a normal anus in female children.
METHODS: In this study, we conducted a retrospective review of children diagnosed with rectovestibular fistula with normal anus who underwent transanal fistula repair in the department of General Surgery, Children's Hospital of Chongqing Medical University. Clinical data were retrospectively analyzed.
RESULTS: A total of 56 female children were included in the study. The patients' ages ranged from 1 year 10 months to 15 years 11 months, with an average age of 5 years 1 month. These children had a clear history of gas or loose stool leakage through the vestibular area, with or without a history of vestibular infection. All patients had a normal anus and underwent transanal fistula repair. Follow-up was conducted through telephone or outpatient visits for a duration of 10 months to 5 years (average follow-up duration 19 months). Three patients experienced minimal secretion from the external orifice of the vestibular fistula within two weeks after the operation, but were successfully treated with sitting bath therapy without any relapse. Another three cases had a recurrence of the fistula, and two of them underwent transanal fistula repair at our center again, resulting in a successful cure after reoperation. The remaining case has not yet undergone reoperation. In the long-term follow-up, all the children had satisfactory anal appearance, with no fecal incontinence, anorectal stenosis, or fistula infection.
CONCLUSION: Transanal fistula repair is a simple, safe, and effective surgical method to treat female children with rectovestibular fistula with a normal anus.

Citation: Wu S, et al. Transanal fistula repair for the treatment of rectovestibular fistula with normal anus in female children: a 5-year single-center experience. Transanal fistula repair for the treatment of rectovestibular fistula with normal anus in female children: a 5-year single-center experience. 2024; 40:75. doi: 10.1007/s00383-024-05658-4

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38456957/
