PMID: 38453814
Title: Coronary computed tomography angiography for clinical practice.

Abstract: Coronary artery disease (CAD) is a common condition caused by the accumulation of atherosclerotic plaques. It can be classified into stable CAD or acute coronary syndrome. Coronary computed tomography angiography (CCTA) has a high negative predictive value and is used as the first examination for diagnosing stable CAD, particularly in patients at intermediate-to-high risk. CCTA is also adopted for diagnosing acute coronary syndrome, particularly in patients at low-to-intermediate risk. Myocardial ischemia does not always co-exist with coronary artery stenosis, and the positive predictive value of CCTA for myocardial ischemia is limited. However, CCTA has overcome this limitation with recent technological advancements such as CT perfusion and CT-fractional flow reserve. In addition, CCTA can be used to assess coronary artery plaques. Thus, the indications for CCTA have expanded, leading to an increased demand for radiologists. The CAD reporting and data system (CAD-RADS) 2.0 was recently proposed for standardizing CCTA reporting. This RADS evaluates and categorizes patients based on coronary artery stenosis and the overall amount of coronary artery plaque and links this to patient management. In this review, we aimed to review the major trials and guidelines for CCTA to understand its clinical role. Furthermore, we aimed to introduce the CAD-RADS 2.0 including the assessment of coronary artery stenosis, plaque, and other key findings, and highlight the steps for CCTA reporting. Finally, we aimed to present recent research trends including the perivascular fat attenuation index, artificial intelligence, and the advancements in CT technology.

Citation: Yoshida K, et al. Coronary computed tomography angiography for clinical practice. Coronary computed tomography angiography for clinical practice. 2024; 42:555-580. doi: 10.1007/s11604-024-01543-1

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38453814/
