PMID: 38451155
Title: Ultrasound-guided deployment of ProGlide™ device in transfemoral transcatheter aortic valve implantation and risk reduction of vascular complications: A propensity-matched cohort study.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: ProGlide is a percutaneous suture-mediated closure device used in arterial and venous closure following percutaneous intervention. Risk of vascular complications from use, particularly related to failure in hemostasis, or acute vessel closure, remains significant and often related to improper suture deployment. We describe a technique of ultrasound-guided ProGlide deployment in transfemoral transcatheter aortic valve implantation (TF-TAVI).
AIMS: The aim of this study is to assess vascular outcomes for ultrasound-guided deployment of ProGlide vascular closure devices in patients undergoing TF-TAVI.
METHODS: We collected relevant clinical data of patients undergoing TAVI in a large volume centre.
PRIMARY OUTCOME: In 126 (ultrasound-guided) and 391 (conventional ProGlide insertion), 0% versus 1.8% (p < 0.001) had a major VARC-3 vascular complication, respectively.
SECONDARY OUTCOME: 0.8% (one minor VARC-3 bleed) vs 4.1% (13 bleeds and three occlusions) had any VARC-3 vascular complication (major and minor) (p < 0.001). Surgical treatment of vascular complication was required in 0.8% versus 1.3% (p = NS).
RESULTS: Five hundred and seventeen patients undergoing TF-TAVI were included.
CONCLUSIONS: Ultrasound-guided deployment of ProGlide for vascular closure reduced the risk of major vascular complications in a large population undergoing TAVI.

Citation: Ross DS, et al. Ultrasound-guided deployment of ProGlide™ device in transfemoral transcatheter aortic valve implantation and risk reduction of vascular complications: A propensity-matched cohort study. Ultrasound-guided deployment of ProGlide™ device in transfemoral transcatheter aortic valve implantation and risk reduction of vascular complications: A propensity-matched cohort study. 2024; 103:771-781. doi: 10.1002/ccd.30999

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38451155/
