PMID: 38453006
Title: Cranioplasty with Direct Revascularization in Hemorrhagic Moyamoya Disease: 2-Dimensional Operative Video.

Abstract: Moyamoya disease is a progressive nonatherosclerotic stenosis of the terminal segments of the arteries of the Circle of Willis. Hemorrhagic presentation is a life-threatening condition, associated with an increased risk of rebleeding and ischemic events.1-7 We present the case of a 65-year-old woman with a right intracerebral hemorrhage who underwent emergency hematoma evacuation without bone flap replacement (Video 1). The investigation confirmed the diagnosis of Moyamoya disease and demonstrated hypoperfusion of the right cerebral hemisphere. Late angiography depicted no transdural collaterals through the bone defect and demonstrated preservation of the superficial temporal artery (STA). Next, it was chosen to perform 1-stage cranioplasty with direct revascularization. We detached the temporal fascia from the muscle and created a window through the fascia to give STA passage in a corridor through the temporal muscle until the brain's surface. Vascular anastomosis was performed with an interrupted suture line employing a 10-0 nylon thread. Flow within the right middle cerebral artery was retrograde, coming from branches of the posterior cerebral artery, and the end-to-side anastomosis was placed to orientate the STA flow in the same direction as in the middle cerebral artery. We used a custom-made titanium plate for the cranioplasty and gave enough room inferiorly for the course of STA. In the end, we sutured the temporal fascia to the titanium plate for a better cosmetic result. To avoid additional unnecessary procedures, the performance of direct revascularization during the cranioplasty is feasible and deserves additional investigation as a tool to prevent new hemorrhagic or ischemic events. Informed consent was obtained from the patient for the procedure and publication of this operative video.

Citation: Jiao Y, et al. Cranioplasty with Direct Revascularization in Hemorrhagic Moyamoya Disease: 2-Dimensional Operative Video. Cranioplasty with Direct Revascularization in Hemorrhagic Moyamoya Disease: 2-Dimensional Operative Video. 2024; 187:149. doi: 10.1016/j.wneu.2024.02.141

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38453006/
