PMID: 38451410
Title: Catheter-guided anvil insertion for circular stapler esophagojejunal anastomosis: a novel technique in laparoscopic total gastrectomy.

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: This study evaluates feasibility, safety, and short-term outcomes of employing the catheter-guided stapler anvil insertion technique for esophagojejunal anastomosis using a circular stapler during laparoscopic total gastrectomy (LTG).
MATERIALS AND METHODS: From September 2021 to April 2023, the catheter-guided stapler anvil insertion technique was employed in 80 patients undergoing laparoscopic total gastrectomy (LTG) for esophagojejunal anastomosis. A modified D2 dissection, according to the en bloc technique, was performed in the patients. Subsequently, a longitudinal incision, approximately 2 cm in length, was made on the anterior wall of the esophagus, about 2 cm above the tumor. The transection line was pre-marked with blue dye along the esophagus's minor axis, and the tail of the anvil was capped with a 10-cm length of catheter (F14 d4.7 mm). The surgeon secures the head of anvil and carefully inserts it into the esophagus, ensuring that only a 5-cm segment of the catheter remains outside the esophagus. A linear cutter was employed to transect and seal the lower end of the esophagus. Subsequently, esophagojejunostomy was performed under laparoscopic guidance using a circular stapler.
RESULTS: Among patients undergoing esophagojejunal anastomosis with the new technique, postoperative complications included pneumonia or pleural effusion in 14 patients (17.5%), anastomotic stenosis in 3 patients (3.75%), abdominal infection in 2 patients (2.5%), and intestinal obstruction in 1 patient (1.25%). No instances of anastomotic leakage, anastomotic bleeding, or deaths were recorded. All patients experiencing complications improved with conservative treatment, without the need for secondary surgery.
CONCLUSION: The catheter-guided stapler anvil insertion technique is demonstrated to be a safe and effective method for esophagojejunostomy, potentially reducing the occurrence of anastomotic leakage.

Citation: Ye Z, et al. Catheter-guided anvil insertion for circular stapler esophagojejunal anastomosis: a novel technique in laparoscopic total gastrectomy. Catheter-guided anvil insertion for circular stapler esophagojejunal anastomosis: a novel technique in laparoscopic total gastrectomy. 2024; 76:1547-1552. doi: 10.1007/s13304-024-01753-2

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38451410/
