PMID: 38469611
Title: Comparison of Percutaneous Transforaminal Endoscopic Decompression and Full Endoscopic Lamina Fenestration Decompression in the Treatment of Degenerative Lumbar Spinal Stenosis with Unilateral Radicular Pain: A Retrospective Study.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Endoscopic decompression of the spinal canal is an emerging procedure for the treatment of degenerative lumbar spinal stenosis, but there are few reports of comparative studies of endoscopic techniques for transforaminal and non-transforaminal approaches.
OBJECTIVE: To compare the clinical application of percutaneous transforaminal endoscopic decompression (PTED) and full endoscopic lamina fenestration decompression (Endo-LOVE) for treating degenerative lumbar spinal stenosis with unilateral radicular pain.
METHODS: A total of 58 patients with degenerative lumbar spinal stenosis (DLSS) with unilateral radicular pain in the lower extremities who underwent endoscopic decompression treatment from June 2020 to December 2021 were retrospectively identified and divided into two groups (PTED vs Endo-LOVE). The two groups' perioperative data were analyzed according to surgical modalities. The Visual Analogue Score (VAS) for pain, Oswestry Disability Index (ODI), modified MacNab criteria, and dural sac cross-sectional area (DSCSA) were used to assess the post-operative outcomes of the two groups.
RESULTS: All 58 patients completed the operation and received more than 12 months of follow-up. There was no significant difference in the operation time, number of intraoperative fluoroscopies, intraoperative bleeding, or postoperative hospitalization time between the two groups (p > 0.05); VAS scores and ODIs of the two groups at all postoperative time points were significantly lower than before the operation (p < 0.05), and there was no significant difference in the comparison of the clinical efficacy between the two groups (p > 0.05); the DSCSA of the two groups at the last postoperative follow-up was significantly larger than before the operation (p < 0.05), and there was no significant difference in the improvement of DSCSA between them (p > 0.05).
CONCLUSIONS: Both procedures are safe and effective in the treatment of DLSS with unilateral lower extremity radicular pain, and we should be specific about the choice of spinal stenosis treatment.

Citation: Xiong L, et al. Comparison of Percutaneous Transforaminal Endoscopic Decompression and Full Endoscopic Lamina Fenestration Decompression in the Treatment of Degenerative Lumbar Spinal Stenosis with Unilateral Radicular Pain: A Retrospective Study. Comparison of Percutaneous Transforaminal Endoscopic Decompression and Full Endoscopic Lamina Fenestration Decompression in the Treatment of Degenerative Lumbar Spinal Stenosis with Unilateral Radicular Pain: A Retrospective Study. 2024; 95:30-41.

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38469611/
