PMID: 38464904
Title: Pharmacopuncture Therapy as an Adjunctive Treatment for Patients with Lumbar Spinal Stenosis: A Pragmatic Randomized Controlled Pilot Trial.

Abstract: PURPOSE: Pharmacopuncture therapy (PPT) combines medicinal extracts with acupuncture and is widely used as an adjunct in clinical practice. This study assessed the safety and feasibility of PPT in addition to conventional Korean Medicine treatment (CKMT), including electroacupuncture, cupping and infra-red, for lumbar spinal stenosis (LSS).
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Forty patients diagnosed with LSS were randomly assigned to undergo PPT with CKMT (experimental group) or CKMT alone (control group) at a 1:1 ratio, receiving 10 sessions of each intervention over five weeks. The primary clinical outcome was measured using the 100-mm Visual Analog Scale (VAS) for buttock and leg pain five weeks post-treatment. Secondary outcomes included clinically important difference (CID), Zurich Claudication Questionnaire, self-reported walking capacity, Modified-Modified Schober test, EuroQol 5-dimension 5-level questionnaire, and the patient's global impression of change. The adverse events were assessed at each visit. The analysis of covariance was conducted to compare between two groups.
RESULTS: Intervention completion rates were 95% and 100% in the experimental and control groups, respectively. No statistically significant differences were found between groups regarding the primary outcome (adjusted mean difference: 8.0; 95% confidence interval: -1.4-17.4). The mean difference in the 100-mm VAS for low back pain at week 5 (adjusted mean difference: 12.9; 95% confidence interval: 2.4-23.4) and the proportion of patients who reached the minimum CID was higher in the experimental group than in the control group. However, no significant differences were observed with other secondary outcomes. One patient in the experimental group experienced a systemic skin rash that resolved the same day, whereas the adverse events in the other group were mild and transient.
CONCLUSION: This trial demonstrated the feasibility of add-on effects and the safety of pharmacopuncture in patients with LSS. Further studies are warranted to evaluate the add-on effects of PPT in treating LSS.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: Clinical Research Information Service (CRIS), KCT0007229; registered on April 26, 2022.

Citation: Oh Y, et al. Pharmacopuncture Therapy as an Adjunctive Treatment for Patients with Lumbar Spinal Stenosis: A Pragmatic Randomized Controlled Pilot Trial. Pharmacopuncture Therapy as an Adjunctive Treatment for Patients with Lumbar Spinal Stenosis: A Pragmatic Randomized Controlled Pilot Trial. 2024; 17:837-849. doi: 10.2147/JPR.S438219

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38464904/
