PMID: 38468441
Title: Numerical modelling of the interaction between dialysis catheter, vascular vessel and blood considering elastic structural deformation.

Abstract: The dialysis catheter indwelling in human bodies has a high risk of inducing thrombus and stenosis. Biomechanical research showed that such physiological complications are triggered by the wall shear stress of the vascular vessel. This study aimed to assess the impact of CVC implantation on central venous haemodynamics and the potential alterations in the haemodynamic environment related to thrombus development. The SVC structure was built from the images from computed tomography. The blood flow was calculated using the Carreau model, and the fluid domain was determined by CFD. The vascular wall and the CVC were computed using FEA. The elastic interaction between the vessel wall and the flow field was considered using FSI simulation. With consideration of the effect of coupling, it was shown that the catheter vibrated in the vascular systems due to the periodic variation of blood pressure, with an amplitude of up to 10% of the vessel width. Spiral flow was observed along the catheter after CVC indwelling, and recirculation flow appeared near the catheter tip. High OSI and WSS regions occurred at the catheter tip and the vascular junction. The arterial lumen tip had a larger effect on the WSS and OSI values on the vascular wall. Considering FSI simulation, the movement of the catheter inside the blood flow was simulated in the deformable vessel. After CVC indwelling, spiral flow and recirculation flow were observed near the regions with high WSS and OSI values.

Citation: Chen Z, et al. Numerical modelling of the interaction between dialysis catheter, vascular vessel and blood considering elastic structural deformation. Numerical modelling of the interaction between dialysis catheter, vascular vessel and blood considering elastic structural deformation. 2024; 40:e3811. doi: 10.1002/cnm.3811

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38468441/
