PMID: 38460190
Title: The ESTS-AIR database-initial results of a multi-institutional database on airway surgery.

Abstract: OBJECTIVES: Compared to lung resections, airway procedures are relatively rare in thoracic surgery. Despite this, a growing number of dedicated airway centres have formed throughout Europe. These centres are characterized by a close interdisciplinary collaboration and they often act as supra-regional referring centres. To date, most evidence of airway surgery comes from retrospective, single-centre analysis as there is a lack of large-scale, multi-institutional databases.
METHODS: In 2018, an initiative was formed, which aimed to create an airway database within the framework of the ESTS database (ESTS-AIR). Five dedicated airway centres were asked to test the database in a pilot phase. A 1st descriptive analysis of ESTS-AIR was performed.
RESULTS: A total of 415 cases were included in the analysis. For adults, the most common indication for airway surgery was post-tracheostomy stenosis and idiopathic subglottic stenosis; in children, most resections/reconstructions had to be performed for post-intubation stenosis. Malignant indications required significantly longer resections [36.0 (21.4-50.6) mm] when compared to benign indications [26.6 (9.4-43.8) mm]. Length of hospital stay was 11.0 (4.1-17.3) days (adults) and 13.4 (7.6-19.6) days (children). Overall, the rates of complications were low with wound infections being reported as the most common morbidity.
CONCLUSIONS: This evaluation of the 1st cases in the ESTS-AIR database allowed a large-scale analysis of the practice of airway surgery in dedicated European airway centres. It provides proof for the functionality of ESTS-AIR and sets the basis for rolling out the AIR subsection to all centres participating in the ESTS database.

Citation: Schweiger T, et al. The ESTS-AIR database-initial results of a multi-institutional database on airway surgery. The ESTS-AIR database-initial results of a multi-institutional database on airway surgery. 2024; 65:(unknown pages). doi: 10.1093/ejcts/ezae084

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38460190/
