PMID: 38463020
Title: Y-Z deformable magnetic ring for the treatment of rectal stricture: A case report and review of literature.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Treatment of postoperative anastomotic stenosis for colorectal cancer is often challenging, especially for patients who do not respond well to endoscopy. In cases where patients have undergone an enterostomy, the stenosis can be easily resolved through magnetic compression. However, common magnetic compression techniques cannot be performed on those without enterostomy. We designed a novel Y-Z deformable magnetic ring (Y-Z DMR) and successfully applied it to a patient with a stenosis rectal anastomosis and without enterostomy after rectal cancer surgery.
CASE SUMMARY: We here report the case of a 57-year-old woman who had undergone a laparoscopic radical rectum resection (Dixon) for rectal cancer. However, she started facing difficulty in defecation 6 months after surgery. Her colonoscopy indicated stenosis of the rectal anastomosis. Endoscopic balloon dilation was performed six times on her. However, the stenosis still showed a trend of gradual aggravation. Because the patient did not undergo an enterostomy, the conventional endoscopic magnetic compression technique could not be performed. Hence, we implemented a Y-Z DMR implemented through the anus under single channel. The magnetic ring fell off nine days after the operation and the rectal stenosis was relieved. The patient was followed up for six months and reported good defecation.
CONCLUSION: The Y-Z DMR deformable magnetic ring is an excellent treatment strategy for patients with rectal stenosis and without enterostomy.

Citation: Zhang MM, et al. Y-Z deformable magnetic ring for the treatment of rectal stricture: A case report and review of literature. Y-Z deformable magnetic ring for the treatment of rectal stricture: A case report and review of literature. 2024; 30:599-606. doi: 10.3748/wjg.v30.i6.599

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38463020/
