PMID: 38469389
Title: Articular arthrodesis with the facet wedge technique for the treatment of unstable lumbar degenerative disease and associated conditions: A retrospective study of 96 patients.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Lumbar articular fusion with the facet wedge (FW) technique is gaining increasing interest among surgeons for the treatment of vertebral instability due to its limited invasiveness and ease of use. Studies on cadavers have reported biomechanical properties similar to pedicle screws. Yet, the evidence supporting their use is still limited and moreover focused only on spinal degenerative disease.
METHODS: 96 cases of lumbar articular fusion with the FW techniques performed at 3 different centers between 2014 and 2022 were retrospectively analyzed based on the specific surgical indications: 1) degenerative spondylolisthesis/unstable lumbar stenosis; 2) synovial cysts; 3) adjacent segment disease (ASD). Medical records were reviewed to identify rates of complications and measures of functional outcome (ODI, low back pain VAS and modified Macnab scale) were collected both at baseline and at the follow-up visits. Wilcoxon signed-rank test was adopted to test for significant functional improvements.
RESULTS: Significative clinical improvements were observed from baseline to follow-up regarding ODI and VAS scores. Overall rate of moderate and severe complications (according to Landriel-Ibañez scale) was 7.9%. Only 3.4% of patients with degenerative disease developed ASD requiring reoperations. Only one case of radicular deficit and one of device mobilization were reported. 2/4 cases of synovial cysts treated with unilateral fusions developed contralateral complications. 9 out of 16 (56.25%) patients who underwent long-term postoperative CT scans presented adequate degree of articular fusion.
CONCLUSION: FW technique is easy, safe, and effective. Its low rate of complications justifies its use for cases of mild lumbar instability.

Citation: Iess G, et al. Articular arthrodesis with the facet wedge technique for the treatment of unstable lumbar degenerative disease and associated conditions: A retrospective study of 96 patients. Articular arthrodesis with the facet wedge technique for the treatment of unstable lumbar degenerative disease and associated conditions: A retrospective study of 96 patients. 2024; 22:100351. doi: 10.1016/j.wnsx.2024.100351

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38469389/
