PMID: 38464836
Title: Effects of Banhabaekchulcheonma-Tang on Brain Injury and Cognitive Function Impairment Caused by Bilateral Common Carotid Artery Stenosis in a Mouse Model.

Abstract: Vascular dementia (VD) is the second most prevalent dementia type, with no drugs approved for its treatment. Here, the effects of Banhabaekchulcheonma-Tang (BBCT) on ischemic brain injury and cognitive function impairment were investigated in a bilateral carotid artery stenosis (BCAS) mouse model. Mice were divided into sham-operated, BCAS control, L-BBCT (40 ml/kg), and H-BBCT (80 ml/kg) groups. BBCT's effects were characterized using the Y-maze test, novel object recognition test (NORT), immunofluorescence staining, RNA sequencing, and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) pathway and Gene Ontology (GO) analyses. The NORT revealed cognitive function improvement in the H-BBCT group, while the Y-maze test revealed no significant difference among the four groups. The CD68+ microglia and GFAP+ astrocyte numbers were reduced in the H-BBCT group. Furthermore, H-BBCT treatment restored the dysregulation of gene expression caused by BCAS. The major BBCT targets were predicted to be cell division cycle protein 20 (CDC20), Epidermal growth factor (EGF), and tumor necrosis factor receptor-associated factor 1 (TRAF1). BBCT regulates the neuroactive ligand-receptor interaction and neuropeptide signaling pathways, as predicted by KEGG and GO analyses, respectively. BBCT significantly improved cognitive impairment in a BCAS mouse model by inhibiting microglial and astrocyte activation and regulating the expression of CDC20, EGF, TRAF1, and key proteins in the neuroactive ligand-receptor interaction and neuropeptide signaling pathways.

Citation: Kim DW, et al. Effects of Banhabaekchulcheonma-Tang on Brain Injury and Cognitive Function Impairment Caused by Bilateral Common Carotid Artery Stenosis in a Mouse Model. Effects of Banhabaekchulcheonma-Tang on Brain Injury and Cognitive Function Impairment Caused by Bilateral Common Carotid Artery Stenosis in a Mouse Model. 2024; 21:644-655. doi: 10.7150/ijms.90167

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38464836/
