PMID: 38466132
Title: Effects of vaginal dilation therapy on vaginal length, vaginal stenosis, vaginal elasticity and sexual function of cervical cancer survivors.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Cervical cancer survivors can experience vaginal length shortening, vaginal stenosis, vaginal elasticity deterioration, sexual frequency reduction and sexual dysfunction. This prospective, uncontrolled, monocentric clinical interventional study aimed to evaluate the effect of vaginal dilation therapy on vaginal condition and sexual function of cervical cancer survivors who had not received timely vaginal dilation.
METHODS: A total of 139 patients completed the study. They received 6 months of vaginal dilation therapy. We evaluated their vaginal elasticity, vaginal diameter, vaginal length and sexual function before and after vaginal dilation therapy. Their vaginal conditions were evaluated by customised vaginal moulds, and the sexual function was assessed by female sexual function index. The SPSS 25 software was used to analyse all the data.
RESULTS: Age, vaginal diameter and sexual intercourse frequency before diagnosis were significantly associated with female sexual dysfunction of the patients after cancer treatment. Vaginal dilation therapy improved vaginal stenosis, vaginal length and sexual function in all the patients; however, the vaginal elasticity and incidence of sexual dysfunction did not improve significantly. Sexual intercourse frequency before diagnosis, vaginal elasticity, time interval from last treatment and treatment modalities were significantly associated with the change in female sexual function index score before and after vaginal dilation therapy. Patients with a time interval from the last treatment less than 24 months or those who had moderate or good vaginal elasticity, benefitted more from vaginal dilatation therapy.
CONCLUSIONS: Cervical cancer survivors who had not received timely vaginal dilation still benefitted from vaginal dilation therapy, irrespective of the treatment methods they received. Moreover, vaginal dilation therapy should be performed as early as possible after cervical cancer treatment.

Citation: Lin YX, et al. Effects of vaginal dilation therapy on vaginal length, vaginal stenosis, vaginal elasticity and sexual function of cervical cancer survivors. Effects of vaginal dilation therapy on vaginal length, vaginal stenosis, vaginal elasticity and sexual function of cervical cancer survivors. 2024; 44:2317387. doi: 10.1080/01443615.2024.2317387

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38466132/
