PMID: 38479833
Title: Ex vivo evaluation of 3 different right ventricular outflow tract substitutes.

Abstract: OBJECTIVES: The Ross procedure represents an excellent treatment option in younger patients with aortic stenosis but is limited by poor availability of homografts. In this study, we investigated the hydrodynamic performance of 3 different types of right ventricular outflow tract replacement with pericardium or synthetic material.
METHODS: Three different types of valved conduits were constructed using pericardium and/or synthetic material (Group PEPE: pericardial cusps and pericardial conduit, Group PEPR: pericardial cusps and Dacron conduit, Group PRPR: expanded polytetrafluoroethylene cusps and Dacron conduit). The conduits were designed according to the Ozaki method. Their hydrodynamic performance (effective orifice area, mean pressure gradient and leakage volume) were evaluated in a mock circulation loop at different hydrodynamic conditions.
RESULTS: Hydrodynamic assessment showed significantly larger effective orifice area of PEPE and PEPR compared to PRPR under all conditions and there were no significant differences between PEPE and PEPR [for condition 2: PEPE 2.43 (2.35-2.54) cm2, PEPR: 2.42 (2.4-2.5) cm2, PRPR: 2.08 (1.97-2.21) cm2, adjusted pairwise comparisons: PEPE versus PEPR: P = 0.80, PEPE versus PRPR: P  < 0.001, PEPR versus PRPR: P  < 0.001]. Mean pressure gradient was significantly lower for PEPE and PEPR compared with PRPR, whereas no significant differences were seen between PEPE and PEPR. Leakage volume was significantly lower for PEPE and PEPR compared with PRPR under all conditions while leakage was similar between PEPE and PEPR.
CONCLUSIONS: Pulmonary graft reconstruction with pericardium cusps showed superior hydrodynamic performance compared with polytetrafluoroethylene cusps. Our results suggest that it could be considered as an alternative substitute for right ventricular outflow tract replacement during the Ross procedure.

Citation: Saisho H, et al. Ex vivo evaluation of 3 different right ventricular outflow tract substitutes. Ex vivo evaluation of 3 different right ventricular outflow tract substitutes. 2024; 65:(unknown pages). doi: 10.1093/ejcts/ezae081

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38479833/
