PMID: 38475835
Title: Tracheal agenesis versus tracheal atresia: anatomical conditions, pathomechanisms and causes with a possible link to a novel MAPK11 variant in one case.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: In this study we aimed to describe the morphological and pathogenetic differences between tracheal agenesis and tracheal atresia, which are not clearly distinguished from each other in the literature, and to contribute thereby to the understanding and management of these conditions. Both tracheal agenesis and tracheal atresia represent rare disorders of still unknown aetiology that cannot be detected by prenatal ultrasound. If the affected foetuses survive until birth these conditions result in respiratory failure and in futile attempts to rescue the infant's life.
RESULTS: Autopsies and genetic analyses, including singleton or trio exome sequencing, were performed on five neonates/foetuses with tracheal agenesis and three foetuses with tracheal atresia. Tracheal agenesis was characterized by absence of the sublaryngeal trachea and presence of a bronchooesophageal fistula and by pulmonary isomerism and occurred as an isolated malformation complex or as part of a VACTERL association. Special findings were an additional so-called 'pig bronchus' and a first case of tracheal agenesis with sirenomelia. Tracheal atresia presenting with partial obliteration of its lumen and persistence of a fibromuscular streak resulted in CHAOS. This condition was associated with normal lung lobulation and single, non-VACTERL type malformations. Trio ES revealed a novel variant of MAPK11 in one tracheal agenesis case. Its involvement in tracheooesophageal malformation is herein discussed, but remains hypothetical.
CONCLUSION: Tracheal agenesis and tracheal atresia represent different disease entities in terms of morphology, pathogenesis and accompanying anomalies due to a primary developmental and secondary disruptive possibly vascular disturbance, respectively.

Citation: Pfeifer M, et al. Tracheal agenesis versus tracheal atresia: anatomical conditions, pathomechanisms and causes with a possible link to a novel MAPK11 variant in one case. Tracheal agenesis versus tracheal atresia: anatomical conditions, pathomechanisms and causes with a possible link to a novel MAPK11 variant in one case. 2024; 19:114. doi: 10.1186/s13023-024-03106-z

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38475835/
