PMID: 38478900
Title: Drug Delivery Angle for Various Atherosclerosis and Aneurysm Percentages of the Carotid Artery.

Abstract: Stroke is the second cause of mortality among adult males and the first cause of death in adult females all around the world. It is also recognized as one of the most important causes of morbidity and dementia in adults. Stenosis or rupture of the only channels of the blood supply from the heart to the brain (carotid arteries) is among the main causes of stroke. In this regard, treatment of the lesions of carotid arteries, including atherosclerosis and aneurysm, could be a huge step in preventing stroke and improving brain performance. Targeted drug delivery by drug-carrying nanoparticles is the latest method for optimal delivery of drug to the damaged parts of the artery. In this study, a wide range of carotid artery lesions, including different percentages of atherosclerosis and aneurysm, were considered. After analyzing the dynamics of the fluid flow in different damaged regions and selecting the magnetic framework with proper ligand (Fe<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub>@MOF) as the drug carrier, the size of the particles and their number per cycle were analyzed. Based on the results, the particle size of 100 nm and the use of 300 particles per injection at each cardiac cycle can result in maximum drug delivery to the target site. Then, the effect of the hospital bed angle on drug delivery was investigated. The results showed a unique optimal drug delivery angle for each extent of atherosclerosis or aneurysm. For example, in a 50% aneurysm, drug delivery at an angle of 30° is about 387% higher than that at an angle of 15°. Finally, simulation of real geometry indicated the effectiveness of simple geometry instead of real geometry for the simulation of carotid arteries, which can remarkably decrease the computational time and costs.

Citation: Amani A and Farajollahi AH. Drug Delivery Angle for Various Atherosclerosis and Aneurysm Percentages of the Carotid Artery. Drug Delivery Angle for Various Atherosclerosis and Aneurysm Percentages of the Carotid Artery. 2024; 21:1777-1793. doi: 10.1021/acs.molpharmaceut.3c01109

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38478900/
