PMID: 38476287
Title: Tertiary syphilis and cardiovascular disease: the united triad: case report.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Syphilis, owing to its natural course, can lead to long-term damage to the aortic valve, such as insufficiency and rarely stenosis, ostial coronary stenosis, and syphilitic aortitis. Cardiovascular involvement alongside neurological involvement dominates the prognosis. This should no longer be seen, thanks to awareness and prevention programmes, medical treatment, and antibiotics.
CASE SUMMARY: We report a case of a 54-year-old chronic smoker with no previous history, admitted for respiratory distress amid an impaired general condition. An electrocardiogram was performed, which showed sinus rhythm with lateral ST depression and T-wave inversion. Coronary angiography revealed an ostial stenosis of the left coronary artery. Echocardiography displayed a globular dilated left ventricle with a left ventricular ejection fraction of 40% and severe aortic insufficiency (AI). Computed tomography angiography of the aorta showed a dilation of the thoracic aorta and suprarenal abdominal aorta. Syphilitic serology was positive. The patient underwent angioplasty, resulting in a satisfactory outcome, and subsequently received optimal treatment. Following a consultation with a cardiovascular surgeon and vascular team, it was decided to proceed with mechanical aortic valve replacement and aorto-coronary double bypass surgery, but vascular surgery of the ascending aortic aneurysm was not possible at once.
DISCUSSION: Tertiary syphilis should always be considered when faced with isolated coronary ostial involvement, aortic aneurysm, and/or AI. What makes our case special is that the patient had almost all the cardiovascular complications of tertiary syphilis. Primary syphilis should always be prevented, diagnosed early, and treated appropriately with antibiotic therapy.

Citation: Berhil T, et al. Tertiary syphilis and cardiovascular disease: the united triad: case report. Tertiary syphilis and cardiovascular disease: the united triad: case report. 2024; 8:ytae013. doi: 10.1093/ehjcr/ytae013

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38476287/
