PMID: 38477243
Title: [Advisability of carotid endarterectomy in asymptomatic patients].

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: To determine the optimal treatment strategy for patients with asymptomatic carotid stenosis.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: The authors reviewed clinical guidelines for the management of patients with asymptomatic carotid stenosis 60-99%, as well as medical studies and meta-analyses comparing carotid endarterectomy and optimal drug therapy in asymptomatic patients between 1993 and 2023.
RESULTS: The choice of treatment strategy for patients with asymptomatic carotid artery stenosis is still a controversial issue. There were several large randomized clinical trials comparing carotid endarterectomy with optimal medical therapy in asymptomatic patients at the end of the 20th century. However, drug therapy has undergone significant changes calling into question the relevance of previous results. This review highlights the evolution of management of patients with asymptomatic carotid stenosis and also presents modern approaches to the treatment of these patients.
CONCLUSION: Patients younger 75 years old gain an advantage from carotid endarterectomy with small perioperative risk compared to optimal drug therapy and yearly risk of cerebral embolism. Patients with asymptomatic carotid stenosis 80-99% are candidates for carotid endarterectomy due to higher risk of acute cerebrovascular accident at least until more data are available. The choice of the best tactics for a particular patient should be made individually depending on own experience and patient's adherence to therapy and lifestyle correction. The results of the ACTRIS (2025) and CREST-2 (2026) studies are expected to clarify this issue.

Citation: Korshunov DA, et al. [Advisability of carotid endarterectomy in asymptomatic patients]. [Advisability of carotid endarterectomy in asymptomatic patients]. 2024; (unknown volume):45-53. doi: 10.17116/hirurgia202403145

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38477243/
