PMID: 38481127
Title: Predictive value of the serum uric acid to high-density lipoprotein cholesterol ratio for culprit plaques in patients with acute coronary syndrome.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Hyperuricemia and low level of high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL-C) are both risk factors for coronary artery disease (CAD). The uric acid to HDL-C ratio (UHR) has recently been identified as a new inflammatory and metabolic biomarker. However, the relationship between the UHR and coronary culprit plaques has not been fully investigated in patients with acute coronary syndrome (ACS).
METHODS: A total of 346 patients with ACS were enrolled in this study. Culprit lesion characteristics were assessed by optical coherence tomography (OCT). Logistic regression and linear correlation analyses were performed to assess the association between the UHR and culprit plaques. The predictive value of the UHR was investigated by receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve analysis.
RESULTS: The percentages of typical culprit plaques, including ruptures, erosions and thrombi, were greater in the high-UHR subgroup than those in the low-UHR subgroup. A positive relationship was also found between the UHR and diameter stenosis (r = 0.160, P = 0.003) and between the UHR and area stenosis (r = 0.145, P = 0.007). The UHR was found to be independently associated with plaque rupture, erosion and thrombus. Furthermore, ROC analysis suggested that the UHR had a better predictive value than low-density lipoprotein cholesterol.
CONCLUSIONS: An elevated UHR level was independently related to the occurrence rate of culprit plaques. The UHR is a simple and easily acquired parameter for detecting culprit plaques in patients with ACS.

Citation: Deng F, et al. Predictive value of the serum uric acid to high-density lipoprotein cholesterol ratio for culprit plaques in patients with acute coronary syndrome. Predictive value of the serum uric acid to high-density lipoprotein cholesterol ratio for culprit plaques in patients with acute coronary syndrome. 2024; 24:155. doi: 10.1186/s12872-024-03824-z

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38481127/
