PMID: 38481641
Title: Surgical treatment for degenerative mitral stenosis associated with aortic valve stenosis: A case report.

Abstract: UNLABELLED: We report a 73-year-old female who underwent mitral valve replacement for degenerative mitral stenosis (DMS) and aortic valve replacement for aortic valve stenosis. She was transferred to our hospital because of congestive heart failure. Transthoracic echocardiogram demonstrated severe mitral valve stenosis and aortic valve stenosis. Transesophageal echocardiogram (TEE) revealed severe mitral annular calcification (MAC) and calcification of the anterior mitral leaflet without commissure fusion. The diagnosis of DMS associated with MAC and aortic valve stenosis was made. Since she did not have other significant comorbidities except diabetes mellitus and hypertension, open-heart surgery for double valve replacement was scheduled by our heart team. Complete resection of the calcium bar and annulus reconstruction with an autologous pericardium allowed safe mitral valve replacement with a mechanical valve. Concomitant aortic valve replacement with a mechanical valve was carried out for aortic valve stenosis. Intraoperative TEE demonstrated good left ventricular function without perivalvular leakage in both mitral and aortic prosthetic valves. The postoperative course was uneventful, and the patient was discharged from the hospital. Surgical intervention may be one of the alternative treatments for elderly patients with degenerative mitral stenosis and MAC.
LEARNING OBJECTIVE: Degenerative mitral stenosis (DMS) associated with mitral annular calcification (MAC) is a severe heart valve disease in the elderly population in developed countries. The prognosis of patients with severe DMS is poor, and open-heart surgery for elderly patients with MAC is especially challenging from a surgical point of view. We report a surgical treatment for a patient with DMS and aortic valve stenosis considering the patient's comorbidities and extent of MAC.

Citation: Nakai T, et al. Surgical treatment for degenerative mitral stenosis associated with aortic valve stenosis: A case report. Surgical treatment for degenerative mitral stenosis associated with aortic valve stenosis: A case report. 2024; 29:120-123. doi: 10.1016/j.jccase.2023.11.004

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38481641/
