PMID: 38486275
Title: Association between triglyceride-glucose index and intracranial/extracranial atherosclerotic stenosis: findings from a retrospective study.

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: The association of the triglyceride-glucose (TyG) index with intracranial atherosclerotic stenosis (ICAS) and extracranial atherosclerotic stenosis (ECAS) is unclear. This study aimed to investigate the relationship of TyG index with the distribution and severity of ICAS and ECAS.
METHOD: Patients who underwent digital subtraction angiography (DSA) for evaluating ICAS/ECAS in Zhongnan Hospital of Wuhan University from January 2017 to October 2021 were retrospectively enrolled in our study. Clinical characteristics, DSA data, blood routine, lipid profile and fasting glucose were recorded. The association of TyG index and ICAS/ECAS status were investigated in four aspects: location and distribution of stenosis, stenosis severity and whether stenosis is symptomatic. Logistic regression models were used to evaluate the association. Restricted cubic splines were constructed to model the non-linear relationship between the TyG index and different arterial stenosis status.
RESULTS: Among 1129 included patients, the median age was 62 (IQR 55-68) years, and 71.3% were male. The median TyG index was 8.81 (8.40, 9.21). Elevated TyG index was significantly associated with ICAS, combined ICAS/ECAS, anterior circulation stenosis, posterior circulation stenosis, combined anterior/posterior circulation stenosis, severe stenosis, both asymptomatic and symptomatic stenosis. This association was maintained after adjusting for age, sex, smoking, drinking, medical history of hypertension and stroke, platelet, total cholesterol, high-density lipoprotein, and low-density lipoprotein. Multivariable-adjusted spline regression models showed that a progressively increasing risk of arterial stenosis was related to an elevated TyG index.
CONCLUSION: Elevated TyG index was associated with ICAS/ECAS. TyG index might be a useful indicator of ICAS and severe stenosis.

Citation: Xie Y, et al. Association between triglyceride-glucose index and intracranial/extracranial atherosclerotic stenosis: findings from a retrospective study. Association between triglyceride-glucose index and intracranial/extracranial atherosclerotic stenosis: findings from a retrospective study. 2024; 23:95. doi: 10.1186/s12933-024-02187-1

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38486275/
