PMID: 38493830
Title: Noncongenital Vaginal Obliteration: Surgical Restoration of Vaginal Patency for GVHD.

Abstract: STUDY OBJECTIVE: To provide a brief overview of noncongenital causes of vaginal obliteration and stenosis, discuss a unique case of vaginal agglutination in a patient who developed genital graft-versus-host disease (GVHD) after receiving a bone marrow transplant (BMT), and present the steps of a laparoscopic total hysterectomy and lysis of vaginal adhesions that successfully restored vaginal patency without the need for grafting.
DESIGN: This video gives an overview of noncongenital causes of vaginal obliteration with a focus on genital GVHD.
SETTING: GVHD is a known possible complication of BMT. This condition can lead to vaginal obliteration, affecting sexual performance and quality of life.
INTERVENTIONS: We discuss the clinical course of a 54-year-old female with history of acute monocytic leukemia treated with chemotherapy and a BMT. She subsequently developed genital GVHD with complete vaginal obliteration, precluding penetrative intercourse and causing pain, discomfort, and decreased quality of life. We present a combined laparoscopic and vaginal surgical procedure that allowed for the creation of a neovagina with a normal length and caliber. While grafting is sometimes necessary due to inflammation and scarring, we were able to avoid a graft by using a combined laparoscopic and vaginal approach, followed by restoration of continuity between the unaffected upper and lower vaginal tissues.
CONCLUSION: GVHD can be quite debilitating for patients. A combined surgical approach is a feasible option for patients with complex pathology not amenable to simple transvaginal adhesiolysis. Surgical restoration of the vagina does not necessarily require the use of a graft if the anatomy is reestablished successfully. VIDEO ABSTRACT.

Citation: Gómez-Viso A, et al. Noncongenital Vaginal Obliteration: Surgical Restoration of Vaginal Patency for GVHD. Noncongenital Vaginal Obliteration: Surgical Restoration of Vaginal Patency for GVHD. 2024; 31:555. doi: 10.1016/j.jmig.2024.03.005

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38493830/
