PMID: 38493613
Title: The effective surgical management of traumatic external auditory canal atresia resulting from a dog bite using a stent silicone prosthesis.

Abstract: INTRODUCTION: Acquired external auditory canal (EAC) atresia is a very rare condition, especially due to direct trauma. The challenge lies in the difficulty of treatment and the tendency to recur even after a long period. Here we present a case report of treatment of recurrent EAC atresia resulting from a dog bite using a silicone stent prosthesis.
CASE PRESENTATION: A 4-year-old, bitten by a dog, suffered severe head injuries, including scalp avulsion and left auricle avulsion. Initial treatment included wound closure, antibiotics, and vaccines. However, complications arose, leading to left EAC atresia and hearing loss. Surgical interventions, including canaloplasty and skin grafting, were conducted, with recurrence prompting second surgery with using a silicon prosthetic post-surgery. Follow-up for up to 14 months showed no evidence of recurrence of atresia, with complete improvement in hearing.
DISCUSSION: Acquired stenosis of the External Auditory Canal (EAC) can result from various factors, predominantly otitis externa and traumatic incidents, including previous surgeries. Though direct trauma is rare, it can lead to stenosis. Surgical intervention is often necessary for post-traumatic cases, involving removal of obstructions, canal widening, and reconstruction. Management depends on maturity of stenosis, with non-surgical methods for soft stenoses and surgical procedures for mature ones, often supplemented by postoperative stents to preventing restenosis.
CONCLUSION: Acquired external auditory canal atresia remains a rare, difficult-to-treat entity with a high rate of recurrence. The use of a silicone prosthesis stent after surgery can be considered an effective method in preventing recurrence.

Citation: Alkheder A, et al. The effective surgical management of traumatic external auditory canal atresia resulting from a dog bite using a stent silicone prosthesis. The effective surgical management of traumatic external auditory canal atresia resulting from a dog bite using a stent silicone prosthesis. 2024; 117:109540. doi: 10.1016/j.ijscr.2024.109540

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38493613/
