PMID: 38499954
Title: The differences between carotid web and carotid web with plaque: based on multimodal ultrasonic and clinical characteristics.

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: This study aimed to examine the clinical and multimodal ultrasonic characteristics differences between carotid web (CW) and CW with plaque as well as the potential risk factors for stroke caused by CW.
METHODS: We retrospectively enrolled patients diagnosed with CW by CTA or high-resolution MRI (HRMRI) and simultaneously underwent contrast enhanced ultrasound (CEUS) and superb microvascular imaging examinations from January 2015 to October 2022. The CW angle was measured using computer-aided software. The variations between CW and CW with plaque were evaluated, and univariable and multivariable logistic regressions were utilized to identify possible risk predictors for stroke caused by CW.
RESULTS: Two hundred ninety-nine patients with an average age of 60.85 (± 8.77) years were included. Sex, age, history of smoking, alcohol, hypertension, diabetes mellitus, homocysteine level, and treatment, as well as web length and thickness, luminal stenosis, location wall, number, CW angle, and CEUS enhancement, were quite different among CW and CW with plaque patients (p < 0.05). The logistic regression analysis showed that web length was an independent predictor of luminal stenosis in CW patients. For patients with CW and plaque, plaque and web thickness, as well as plaque enhancement, were associated with stenosis. Furthermore, luminal stenosis and plaque length were risk factors for symptoms.
CONCLUSION: The multimodal ultrasonic and clinical manifestations of CW and CW with plaque are quite different. Web length is an independent risk factor for carotid artery stenosis in CW patients, whereas luminal stenosis and plaque length were risk factors for symptoms in CW with plaque patients.
CRITICAL RELEVANCE STATEMENT: Exploring the similarities and differences between the carotid web and the carotid web with plaque, based on the stereo-geometric spatial position relationship and hemodynamic changes, may provide further insights into the underlying mechanisms of stroke occurrence caused by the carotid web.
KEY POINTS: 1. Multimodal ultrasonic and clinical manifestations of carotid web and carotid web with plaque are substantially different. 2. A thin triangular endoluminal defect is identified as a typical feature of the web on superb microvascular imaging, and two kinds of typical ultrasonic features of CW with plaque are also identified. 3. Web length is an independent risk factor for carotid stenosis in carotid web patients, whereas luminal stenosis and plaque length are risk factors for symptoms in patients with CW and plaque.

Citation: Hou C, et al. The differences between carotid web and carotid web with plaque: based on multimodal ultrasonic and clinical characteristics. The differences between carotid web and carotid web with plaque: based on multimodal ultrasonic and clinical characteristics. 2024; 15:78. doi: 10.1186/s13244-024-01650-7

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38499954/
