PMID: 38508736
Title: A Phase II Clinical Trial to Study the Safety of Triamcinolone after Endoscopic Radial Incision and Cutting Dilatation for Benign Stenosis of the Lower Gastrointestinal Tract: A Study Protocol.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Lower gastrointestinal tract stenosis is commonly diagnosed and is typically treated with surgery or endoscopic balloon dilation (EBD). Radial incision and cutting (RIC) is a novel treatment approach that has several benefits compared with EBD and surgery. Although RIC has demonstrated a high technical success rate and has been shown to improve subjective symptoms, previous studies revealed that restenosis after RIC remain unsolved. Herein, we report the design of a prospective, multicenter, single-arm, interventional, phase II trial to evaluate the safety of local triamcinolone acetonide (TA) administration and its feasibility in preventing restenosis after RIC for lower gastrointestinal tract stenosis.
METHODS: The major inclusion criteria are age 20-80 years and the presence of benign stenosis in the lower gastrointestinal tract accessible by colonoscope. We will perform RIC followed by local administration of TA to 20 participants. The primary outcome is the safety of local TA administration, which will be assessed by determining the frequency of adverse events of special interest. The secondary outcomes are the technical success rate of RIC, duration of procedure, improvement in subjective symptoms, and duration of hospitalization. The outcomes, improvement in subjective symptoms, and long-term results will be evaluated using descriptive statistics, Student's t-test, and Kaplan-Meier curve, respectively.
DISCUSSION: This explorative study will provide useful information regarding the safety of TA administration after RIC, which may contribute to further investigations.

Citation: Moroi R, et al. A Phase II Clinical Trial to Study the Safety of Triamcinolone after Endoscopic Radial Incision and Cutting Dilatation for Benign Stenosis of the Lower Gastrointestinal Tract: A Study Protocol. A Phase II Clinical Trial to Study the Safety of Triamcinolone after Endoscopic Radial Incision and Cutting Dilatation for Benign Stenosis of the Lower Gastrointestinal Tract: A Study Protocol. 2024; 70:53-60. doi: 10.2739/kurumemedj.MS7012005

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38508736/
