PMID: 38505728
Title: Seven-year follow-up of endovascular treatment of iatrogenic brachioradial artery injury complicating percutaneous coronary intervention: a case report.

Abstract: The radial artery has been used increasingly for percutaneous coronary intervention because of its safety and feasible access route. Nevertheless, transradial complications are possible because of the variation in radial artery anatomy. We experienced a case of the brachioradial artery injury secondary to catheterization, presenting as hypovolemic shock. A 76-year-old woman presented at our emergency department complaining of effort-induced angina. Coronary angiography via the right radial artery showed critical stenosis in the middle of the left anterior descending coronary artery. After wiring into this vessel, balloon angioplasty using a 6-Fr Judkin left guiding catheter was performed with the deployment of the zotarolimus-eluting stent. There was difficulty in negotiating the guidewire and balloons in that resistance was experienced while passing the catheter in the upper arm. Therefore, retrograde radial arteriography was performed to determine any injury to radial artery. This showed contrast extravasation in the brachioradial artery. Initially, manual compression was tried. However, 2 hours later, the patient developed cold sweating and went into a stupor. Laboratory findings showed a decline in hemoglobin, leading to suspicion of hemorrhagic shock. We applied over 30 minutes of balloon inflation, but this was ineffective. While surgical repair was not available, a 6.0 × 50 mm Viabahn stent was placed over the axillary artery. Subsequent angiography showed no further leakage or occlusion of the brachioradial artery. The postprocedural period was uneventful, and the patient was discharged with dual antiplatelet agents. At a 7-year clinical follow-up, the patient was free from limb ischemia symptoms.

Citation: Kim HW, et al. Seven-year follow-up of endovascular treatment of iatrogenic brachioradial artery injury complicating percutaneous coronary intervention: a case report. Seven-year follow-up of endovascular treatment of iatrogenic brachioradial artery injury complicating percutaneous coronary intervention: a case report. 2024; 86:155-159. doi: 10.18999/nagjms.86.1.155

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38505728/
