PMID: 38507314
Title: Management of right ventricular outflow tract with percutaneous Melody valve implantation in pediatric patients: experience in a high complexity center in Colombia.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Congenital heart disease poses a therapeutic challenge, specifically pulmonary valve stenosis. This has been treated for many years with invasive procedures and bioprostheses, which over time, become dysfunctional due to the accumulation of fibrous tissue and calcification.
OBJECTIVE: The aim of this study is to describe the use of endovascular management in the right ventricular outflow tract, as the beginning of an ongoing effot to improve pediatric outcomes in developing countries.
METHODS: Seven pediatric patients with endovascular management of the right outflow tract are presented. Three of them underwent surgical valvuloplasty with persistent pulmonary stenosis. They decided to insert a percutaneous transcatheter pulmonary valve (PPVI) with a Melody valve using the valve-in-valve technique, with 100% stenosis and no complications associated with the procedure.
RESULTS: Four patients with successful percutaneous valve implantation had different congenital heart diseases. In addition, the case of a patient in whom an intentional pulmonary valve fracture was performed, an innovative procedure in pediatric endovascular management in the country, is highlighted.
CONCLUSIONS: The procedure was minimally invasive, safe, and effective. The IVPP technique could be a viable option in our country for managing failed primary valve implantations or even in native tracts.

Citation: Montaña-Jiménez LP, et al. Management of right ventricular outflow tract with percutaneous Melody valve implantation in pediatric patients: experience in a high complexity center in Colombia. Management of right ventricular outflow tract with percutaneous Melody valve implantation in pediatric patients: experience in a high complexity center in Colombia. 2024; 94:7-14. doi: 10.24875/ACM.22000226

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38507314/
