PMID: 38501127
Title: STENOSIS: Long-term single versus dual antiplatelet therapy in patients with ischaemic stroke due to intracranial atherosclerotic disease - a randomised trial.

Abstract: RATIONALE: Intracranial atherosclerotic disease (ICAD) is a pathological process that causes progressive stenosis and cerebral hypoperfusion, leading to stroke occurrence and recurrence around the world. The exact duration of dual antiplatelet therapy (DAPT) for ICAD is unclear in view of long-term risk of bleeding complications.
AIM: The current study aims to study the efficacy and safety of long-term DAPT (up to 12 months) in patients with ICAD.
SAMPLE SIZE: Using 80% power and an alpha error of 5 %, presuming a 10%-15% drop-out rate, a total of 2200 patients will be recruited for the study.
METHODOLOGY: This is a prospective, randomised, double-blind, placebo controlled trial.
STUDY OUTCOMES: The primary outcomes include recurrent ischaemic stroke (IS) or transient ischaemic attack and any intracranial haemorrhage (ICH), major or minor systemic bleeding at the end of 12 months. Secondary outcomes include composite of any stroke, myocardial infarction or death at the end of 12 months. The safety outcomes include any ICH, major or minor bleeding as defined using GUSTO (Global Use of Streptokinase and tPA for occluded Coronary Arteries) classification at the end of 12 months and 1 month after completion of the drug treatment phase.
DISCUSSION: The study will provide level I evidence on the duration of DAPT among patients with IS due to ICAD of more than or equal to 50%.

Citation: Bhatia R, et al. STENOSIS: Long-term single versus dual antiplatelet therapy in patients with ischaemic stroke due to intracranial atherosclerotic disease - a randomised trial. STENOSIS: Long-term single versus dual antiplatelet therapy in patients with ischaemic stroke due to intracranial atherosclerotic disease - a randomised trial. 2024; 6:e000532. doi: 10.1136/bmjno-2023-000532

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38501127/
