PMID: 38510885
Title: The Top 100 Most Cited Journal Articles on Hydrocephalus.

Abstract: Hydrocephalus represents a significant burden of disease, with more than 383,000 new cases annually worldwide. When the magnitude of this condition is considered, a centralized archive of pertinent literature is of great clinical value. From a neurosurgical standpoint, hydrocephalus is one of the most frequently treated conditions in the field. The focus of this study was to identify the top 100 journal articles specific to hydrocephalus using bibliometric analysis. Using the Journal of Citation Report database, 10 journals were identified. The Web of Science Core Collection was then searched using each journal name and the search term "hydrocephalus." The results were ordered by "Times Cited" and searched by the number of citations. The database contained journal articles from 1976 to 2021, and the following variables were collected for analysis: journal, article type, year of publication, and the number of citations. Journal articles were excluded if they had no relation to hydrocephalus, mostly involved basic science research, or included animal studies. Ten journals were identified using the above criteria, and a catalog of the 100 most cited publications in the hydrocephalus literature was created. Articles were arranged from highest to lowest citation number, with further classification by journal, article type, and publication year. Of the 100 articles referenced, 38 were review articles, 24 were original articles, 15 were comparative studies, 11 were clinical trials, six were multi-center studies, three were cross-sectional, and three were case reports with reviews. Articles were also sorted by study type and further stratified by etiology. If the etiology was not specified, studies were instead subcategorized by treatment type. Etiologies such as aqueductal stenosis, tumors, and other obstructive causes of hydrocephalus were classified as obstructive (n=6). Communicating (n=15) included idiopathic, normal pressure hydrocephalus, and other non-obstructive etiologies. The category "other" (n=3) was assigned to studies that included etiologies, populations, and/or treatments that did not fit into the classifications previously outlined. Through our analysis of highly cited journal articles focusing on different etiologies and the surgical or medical management of hydrocephalus, we hope to elucidate important trends. By establishing the 100 most cited hydrocephalus articles, we contribute one source, stratified for efficient referencing, to facilitate clinical care and future research on hydrocephalus.

Citation: Seltzer LA, et al. The Top 100 Most Cited Journal Articles on Hydrocephalus. The Top 100 Most Cited Journal Articles on Hydrocephalus. 2024; 16:e54481. doi: 10.7759/cureus.54481

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38510885/
