PMID: 38518148
Title: Retrospective analysis of Advanced Heart Failure and/or Cardiogenic Shock in Patients with Aortic Valve Stenosis Treated by Transcatheter Aortic Valve Replacement and a Nomogram Model Construction.

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: Currently, there is little information about the risk of sudden cardiac death and its predictors in aortic valve stenosis patients after transcatheter aortic valve replacement (TAVR). Therefore, we conducted a large sample cohort study on TAVR patients to evaluate the predictive factors and incidence of heart failure death caused by advanced heart failure (AHF) and sudden cardiac death. Furthermore, a nomogram model to predict its risk was constructed.
METHODS: This study retrospectively analyzed the data of 241 consecutive participants who had received TAVR treatment for aortic valve stenosis in our hospital from January 2020 to January 2022. The characteristics of the subjects, including myocardial zymogram, renal function, biochemical parameters, and cardiac ultrasound parameters, were collected. Moreover, a nomogram was constructed to predict the risk of sudden cardiac death and its predictors in patients after transcatheter aortic valve replacement (TAVR). The model was validatedinternally using measures of calibration and decision curve analysis.
RESULTS: Six independent risk factors(Age, smoking, diabetes, glutamic pyruvic transaminase, glutamic oxaloacetic transaminase, and fasting blood glucose) were finally recruited into the nomogram model to predict the risk of advanced heart failure and/or cardiogenic shock in AS patients treated by TAVR. Besides, the decision curve analysis and receiver operating characteristic curve indicated that the nomogram prediction models showed positive clinical benefits.
CONCLUSIONS: The Age, smoking, diabetes, glutamic pyruvic transaminase, glutamic oxaloacetic transaminase, and fasting blood glucose are the independent risk factors for advanced heart failure and/or cardiogenic shock in AS patients treated by TAVR. The construction of nomograms is beneficial in predicting the risk of advanced heart failure and/or cardiogenic shock in AS patients treated by TAVR.

Citation: An J, et al. Retrospective analysis of Advanced Heart Failure and/or Cardiogenic Shock in Patients with Aortic Valve Stenosis Treated by Transcatheter Aortic Valve Replacement and a Nomogram Model Construction. Retrospective analysis of Advanced Heart Failure and/or Cardiogenic Shock in Patients with Aortic Valve Stenosis Treated by Transcatheter Aortic Valve Replacement and a Nomogram Model Construction. 2024; 30:118-122.

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38518148/
