PMID: 38515341
Title: Remote ischemic conditioning improves cerebral hemodynamics in symptomatic intracranial atherosclerosis: A PET/CT-guided randomized controlled study.

Abstract: Patients with symptomatic intracranial arterial stenosis (sICAS) suffer embarrassed hemodynamic status and acute ischemic stroke (AIS) recurrence. We aimed to assess the efficacy of remote ischemic conditioning (RIC) on improving this status by evaluating cerebral blood flow (CBF) and cerebral glucose metabolism (CGM) via PET/CT. Adult patients with unilateral sICAS in middle cerebral artery and/or intracranial segment of internal carotid artery-related AIS or transient ischemic attack within 6 months prior to randomization were enrolled. Individuals who received intravenous thrombolysis or endovascular treatment, or sICAS caused by cardiac embolism, small vessel occlusion, or other determined causes were excluded. Twenty-three eligible patients were randomly assigned to standard medical treatment (SMT) (n = 10) or RIC group (n = 13). The RIC protocol consisted of 5 cycles, each for 5-min bilateral upper limb ischemia and 5-min reperfusion period, twice a day, with a total duration of 3 months. Ten healthy volunteers were enrolled as healthy control group. We tested CBF and CGM at the rest stage and the methazolamide-induced stress stage. All patients received PET/CT at baseline and three-month followup. Both CBF and CGM in ipsilateral hemisphere of sICAS patients were significantly decreased at the rest stage and the stress stage (p < .05), which were improved by three-month RIC (p < .05). The lesions decreased notably in RIC group compared to SMT group (p < .05). RIC ameliorated the hemodynamic status and glucose metabolism in regions at high risk of infarction, which might improve the resistance capacity towards ischemic load in sICAS patients.

Citation: An H, et al. Remote ischemic conditioning improves cerebral hemodynamics in symptomatic intracranial atherosclerosis: A PET/CT-guided randomized controlled study. Remote ischemic conditioning improves cerebral hemodynamics in symptomatic intracranial atherosclerosis: A PET/CT-guided randomized controlled study. 2024; 102:e25324. doi: 10.1002/jnr.25324

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38515341/
