PMID: 38514506
Title: [Screening, risk stratification and CT imaging for assessment of coronary artery disease].

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Early treatment of cardiovascular risk factors and characterization of coronary plaques is essential to collect prognostic information about coronary artery disease (CAD) and prevent cardiovascular events.
OBJECTIVES: Discussion of the most important risk factors of CAD, basic diagnostic of CAD, prevention, and prognostic factors of CAD with focus on cardiac computed tomography (CT).
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Prevalence and prognostic impact of CAD risk factors; description of specific assessment of risk profiles; estimation of pretest probability; conventional prevention of CAD; prognostic assessment of CAD using the Calcium Scoring and coronary CT angiography.
RESULTS: Assessment of risk profiles and estimation of pretest probability for obstructive coronary stenosis necessitates a thorough evaluation of medical history and laboratory values. The composition and extent of calcified and noncalcified plaques in CT exams based on the criteria of the Coronary Artery Disease-Reporting and Data System give important prognostic information about the risk of cardiovascular events, which increases with high plaque burden and vice versa. Initial imaging with CT for evaluation of CAD leads to a reduction of invasive coronary angiographies and catheter-associated complications.
CONCLUSIONS: Besides early detection of cardiovascular risk factors, the additional assessment of plaque burden and significant stenosis in CT gives further prognostic information to facilitate effective therapies to prevent cardiovascular events and in the case of low plaque burden avoid invasive coronary angiography. However, systmatic screening using Calcium Scoring is not established yet due to insufficient data, although it could potentially be used for an early risk stratification in patients with multiple risk factors.

Citation: Bischoff LM and Luetkens JA. [Screening, risk stratification and CT imaging for assessment of coronary artery disease]. [Screening, risk stratification and CT imaging for assessment of coronary artery disease]. 2024; 64:488-494. doi: 10.1007/s00117-024-01287-z

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38514506/
