PMID: 38512463
Title: Totally intracorporeal colorectal anastomosis (TICA) versus classical mini-laparotomy for specimen extraction, after segmental bowel resection for deep endometriosis: a single-center experience.

Abstract: PURPOSE: The surgical approach to bowel endometriosis is still unclear. The aim of the study is to compare TICA to conventional specimen extractions and extra-abdominal insertion of the anvil in terms of both complications and functional outcomes.
METHODS: This is a single-center, observational, retrospective study conducted enrolling symptomatic women underwent laparoscopic excision of deep endometriosis with segmental bowel resection between September 2019 and June 2022. Women who underwent TICA were compared to classical technique (CT) in terms of intra- and postoperative complications, moreover, functional outcomes relating to the pelvic organs were assessed using validated questionnaires [Knowles-Eccersley-Scott-Symptom (KESS) questionnaire and Gastro-Intestinal Quality of Life Index (GIQLI)] for bowel function. Pain symptoms were assessed using Visual Analogue Scale (VAS) scores.
RESULTS: The sample included 64 women. TICA was performed on 31.2% (n = 20) of the women, whereas CT was used on 68.8% (n = 44). None of the patients experienced rectovaginal, vesicovaginal, ureteral or vesical fistula, or ureteral stenosis and uroperitoneum, and in no cases was it necessary to reoperate. Regarding the two surgical approaches, no significant difference was observed in terms of complications. As concerns pain symptoms at 6-month follow-up evaluations on stratified data, except for dysuria, all VAS scales reported showed significant reductions between median values, for both surgery interventions. As well, significant improvements were further observed in KESS scores and overall GIQLI. Only the GIQLI evaluation was significantly smaller in the TICA group compared to CT after the 6-month follow-up.
CONCLUSIONS: We did not find any significant differences in terms of intra- or post-operative complications compared TICA and CT, but only a slight improvement in the Gastro-Intestinal Quality of Life Index in patients who underwent the CT compared to the TICA technique.

Citation: Ianieri MM, et al. Totally intracorporeal colorectal anastomosis (TICA) versus classical mini-laparotomy for specimen extraction, after segmental bowel resection for deep endometriosis: a single-center experience. Totally intracorporeal colorectal anastomosis (TICA) versus classical mini-laparotomy for specimen extraction, after segmental bowel resection for deep endometriosis: a single-center experience. 2024; 309:2697-2707. doi: 10.1007/s00404-024-07412-6

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38512463/
