PMID: 38520234
Title: Retrospective Comparative Study between Duplay and Koff Methods in Repair of Distal Hypospadias.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Hypospadias repair is a complicated surgery even in the best of hands. To date, there is a lack of consensus on which surgical technique offers more favourable post-operative outcomes. The present work was undertaken to evaluate and compare the outcomes and complications rates of two single-stage techniques widely used to repair primary anterior hypospadias, namely Thiersch-Duplay Tubularized Plate Urethroplasty and Koff Urethral Mobilisation and Advancement.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Data from the medical records of 120 patients operated on for primary anterior hypospadias were retrospectively analysed and compared. The patients were divided into two groups: 60 patients underwent Thiersch-Duplay procedure (Group A) and 60 patients underwent Koff procedure (Group B). They were compared using the Chi-squared or Fisher's exact test to assess the relationship between the adopted surgical technique and the complications' development with a P < 0.05.
RESULTS: Neither intraoperative complications nor acute post-operative complications occurred, whereas 28.3% ( n = 34/120) cases have exhibited at least one late post-operative surgical complication, including 38.3% ( n = 23/60) in Group A and 18.3% ( n = 11/60) in Group B, revealing a better outcome of the Koff procedure despite the statistical insignificance ( P = 0.102). We did not objectify any other complication besides meatal stenosis (MS), urethro-cutaneous fistula (UCF) and wound dehiscence.
CONCLUSION: Overall, our study could not demonstrate the superiority of one technique above another. At the same time, it established the versatility, satisfactory cosmetic and functional results, low MS and UCF rates of Koff urethral mobilization and advancement technique in primary anterior hypospadias repair.

Citation: Alaoui O, et al. Retrospective Comparative Study between Duplay and Koff Methods in Repair of Distal Hypospadias. Retrospective Comparative Study between Duplay and Koff Methods in Repair of Distal Hypospadias. 2024; 21:160-165. doi: 10.4103/ajps.ajps_157_22

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38520234/
