PMID: 38521149
Title: Comparative study of treatment efficacy in severe intraepithelial squamous cell lesions and preinvasive cervical cancer by conization and chlorin e6-mediated fluorescence-assisted systemic photodynamic therapy.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Cervical cancer (CC) occupies a leading position in incidence among young women of reproductive age. In this connection, it is urgent to search for the most effective approaches to the diagnosis and treatment of this pathology. The purpose of the study was to evaluate the effectiveness of the PDT method using Cе6 with the control of the photobleaching using video and spectral fluorescence diagnostic methods, to develop the method of fluorescence-assisted systemic photodynamic therapy mediated with chlorin e6 for treatment CIN 3 and CIS.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: A randomized comparative clinical study was conducted involving 94 women aged 18 to 49 years with histologically verified severe intraepithelial squamous cell lesions of the cervix or preinvasive cervical cancer. The patients were included in 2 groups: in the first group conization of the cervix was performed with curettage of the remaining part of the cervical canal; patients in the second group underwent the chlorin e6-mediated fluorescence-assisted systemic photodynamic therapy.
RESULTS: The absolute majority of patients in the main group after the first course of chlorin e6-mediated fluorescence-assisted systemic photodynamic therapy showed normalization of cytological parameters and colposcopic picture, while women from the comparison group showed signs of cervical lesions statistically significantly more often. These changes corresponded to the dynamics of the proliferation markers expression in the cells of intraepithelial squamous cell lesions. Also, patients of the second group who were planning a pregnancy had better reproductive outcomes after treatment compared to those of the first group.
CONCLUSION: In general, higher clinical efficacy and safety of the use of the chlorin e6-mediated fluorescence-assisted systemic photodynamic therapy in the treatment of intraepithelial squamous cell lesions and preinvasive cervical cancer have been established compared to the use of standard treatment methods.

Citation: Gilyadova AV, et al. Comparative study of treatment efficacy in severe intraepithelial squamous cell lesions and preinvasive cervical cancer by conization and chlorin e6-mediated fluorescence-assisted systemic photodynamic therapy. Comparative study of treatment efficacy in severe intraepithelial squamous cell lesions and preinvasive cervical cancer by conization and chlorin e6-mediated fluorescence-assisted systemic photodynamic therapy. 2024; 46:104060. doi: 10.1016/j.pdpdt.2024.104060

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38521149/
