PMID: 38529331
Title: Study on the related factors of TCM constitution and hemodynamics in patients with coronary heart disease.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: The concepts of "individualization" and "preventive treatment" should be incorporated into the precise diagnosis and treatment of coronary heart disease (CHD). Both hemodynamics and Chinese medicine constitution studies align with these two concepts.
METHODS: This study utilized data from 81 patients with CHD, including 12 patients with balanced constitution (BC), 20 patients with blood stasis constitution (BSC), 17 patients with phlegm-dampness constitution (PDC), 15 patients with qi-deficiency constitution (QDC), and 17 patients with other constitutions. Clinical data provided information on the patients' blood property, heart function, degree of coronary stenosis, coronary hemodynamics, and so on. These parameters were compared between patients with balanced constitution vs. biased constitutions as well as between those with blood stasis constitution, phlegm-dampness constitution, and qi-deficiency constitution.
RESULTS: Compared to biased constitution (BC), patients with balanced constitution exhibited lower total cholesterol (TC) levels and low-density lipoprotein (LDL) levels. Additionally, they had lighter stenosis degrees in the Left anterior descending branch (LAD) and Left circumflex branch (LCX) branches. The hemodynamic condition of the LAD and LCX was better for those with balanced constitution; however there was no difference in heart function. Among the groups categorized by blood stasis, phlegm dampness or qi deficiency constituions, patients classified under phlegm dampness had higher levels of LDL compared to those classified under blood stasis or qi deficiency, while patients classified under qi deficiency had higher levels of blood glucose compared to those classified under blood stasis or phlegm dampness. Hemodynamic environments also differed among the LAD and LCX for each group but there were no significant differences observed in heart function or degree of coronary stenosis among these three groups.
CONCLUSION: The balanced constitution demonstrates superior blood property, degree of coronary artery stenosis, and coronary hemodynamics compared to the biased constitution. Furthermore, among the three constitutions with CHD, variations in blood property and certain hemodynamic parameters are observed. These findings emphasize the significant clinical value of incorporating physical factors into the diagnosis and treatment of patients with CHD.

Citation: Mao B, et al. Study on the related factors of TCM constitution and hemodynamics in patients with coronary heart disease. Study on the related factors of TCM constitution and hemodynamics in patients with coronary heart disease. 2024; 11:1383082. doi: 10.3389/fcvm.2024.1383082

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38529331/
