PMID: 38522309
Title: Chuanzhitongluo capsule improves cognitive impairment in mice with chronic cerebral hypoperfusion via the cholinergic anti-inflammatory pathway.

Abstract: Vascular cognitive impairment (VCI) has become a common disease-causing cognitive deficit in humans, second only to Alzheimer's Disease (AD). Chuanzhitongluo capsule (CZTL) is a Traditional Chinese Medicine (TCM) preparation known for its effective protection against cerebral ischemia. However, its potential to ameliorate VCI remains unclear. This study aimed to investigate the cognitive improvement effects of CZTL in a mouse model of VCI. Chronic cerebral hypoperfusion (CCH) was induced in mice by bilateral common carotid artery stenosis (BCAS) to simulate the pathological changes associated with VCI. Spatial learning and memory abilities were assessed using the Morris Water Maze (MWM). RNA sequencing (RNA-Seq) was employed to identify differentially expressed genes (DEGs) in the hippocampus. Levels of inflammatory factors were measured through enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA), while immunofluorescence (IF) determined the expression intensity of target proteins. Western Blot (WB) confirmed the final action pathway. Results indicated that CZTL significantly improved the spatial learning and memory abilities of CCH mice, along with alterations in gene expression profiles in the hippocampus. It also reduced neuroinflammation in the hippocampus and upregulated the choline acetyltransferase (ChAT) and α7 subunit-containing nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (α7nAChR), which are in synaptic plasticity and neuronal development. Moreover, CZTL inhibited the NF-κB signaling pathway. In conclusion, CZTL may alleviate neuroinflammation induced by CCH and improve cognitive impairment in CCH mice by regulating the cholinergic anti-inflammatory pathway (CAIP) involving ChAT/α7nAChR/NF-κB.

Citation: Wang Z, et al. Chuanzhitongluo capsule improves cognitive impairment in mice with chronic cerebral hypoperfusion via the cholinergic anti-inflammatory pathway. Chuanzhitongluo capsule improves cognitive impairment in mice with chronic cerebral hypoperfusion via the cholinergic anti-inflammatory pathway. 2024; 189:112407. doi: 10.1016/j.exger.2024.112407

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38522309/
