PMID: 38523372
Title: Triamcinolone acetonide alleviates benign biliary stricture by ameliorating biliary fibrosis and inflammation.

Abstract: We conducted a comprehensive series of molecular biological studies aimed at unraveling the intricate mechanisms underlying the anti-fibrotic effects of triamcinolone acetonide (TA) when used in conjunction with fully covered self-expandable metal stents (FCSEMS) for the management of benign biliary strictures (BBS). To decipher the molecular mechanisms responsible for the anti-fibrotic effects of corticosteroids on gallbladder mucosa, we conducted a comprehensive analysis. This analysis included various methodologies such as immunohistochemistry, ELISA, real-time PCR, and transcriptome analysis, enabling us to examine alterations in factors related to fibrosis and inflammation at both the protein and RNA levels. Overall, our findings revealed a dose-dependent decrease in fibrosisrelated signaling with higher TA concentrations. The 15 mg of steroid treatment (1X) exhibited anti-fibrosis and anti-inflammatory effects after 4 weeks, whereas the 30 mg of steroid treatment (2X) rapidly reduced fibrosis and inflammation within 2 weeks in BBS. Transcriptomic analysis results consistently demonstrated significant downregulation of fibrosis- and inflammation-related pathways and genes in steroid-treated fibroblasts. Use of corticosteroids, specifically TA, together with FCSEMS was effective for the treatment of BBS, ameliorating fibrosis and inflammation. Our molecular biological analysis supports the potential development of steroid-eluted FCSEMS as a therapeutic option for BBS in humans resulting from various surgical procedures. [BMB Reports 2024; 57(4): 200-205].

Citation: Joo S, et al. Triamcinolone acetonide alleviates benign biliary stricture by ameliorating biliary fibrosis and inflammation. Triamcinolone acetonide alleviates benign biliary stricture by ameliorating biliary fibrosis and inflammation. 2024; 57:200-205. doi: 10.5483/BMBRep.2023-0234

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38523372/
