PMID: 38521440
Title: Valvulitis: a new echocardiographic criterion for the diagnosis of bioprosthetic aortic valve infective endocarditis.

Abstract: INTRODUCTION AND OBJECTIVES: Diffuse homogeneous hypoechoic leaflet thickening, with a wavy leaflet motion documented by transesophageal echocardiography (TEE), has been described in some cases of prosthetic valve endocarditis (PVE) involving aortic bioprosthesis (AoBio-PVE). This echocardiographic finding has been termed valvulitis. We aimed to estimate the prevalence of valvulitis, precisely describe its echocardiographic characteristics, and determine their clinical significance in patients with AoBio-PVE.
METHODS: From 2011 to 2022, 388 consecutive patients with infective endocarditis (IE) admitted to a tertiary care hospital were prospectively included in a multipurpose database. For this study, all patients with AoBio-PVE (n=86) were selected, and their TEE images were thoroughly evaluated by 3 independent cardiologists to identify all cases of valvulitis.
RESULTS: The prevalence of isolated valvulitis was 12.8%, and 20.9% of patients had valvulitis accompanied by other classic echocardiographic findings of IE. A total of 9 out of 11 patients with isolated valvulitis had significant valve stenosis, whereas significant aortic valve regurgitation was documented in only 1 patient. Compared with the other patients with AoBio-PVE, cardiac surgery was less frequently performed in patients with isolated valvulitis (27.3% vs 62.7%, P=.017). In 4 out of 5 patients with valve stenosis who did not undergo surgery but underwent follow-up TEE, valve gradients significantly improved with appropriate antibiotic therapy.
CONCLUSIONS: Valvulitis can be the only echocardiographic finding in infected AoBio and needs to be identified by imaging specialists for early diagnosis. However, this entity is a diagnostic challenge and additional imaging techniques might be required to confirm the diagnosis. Larger series are needed.

Citation: Zulet P, et al. Valvulitis: a new echocardiographic criterion for the diagnosis of bioprosthetic aortic valve infective endocarditis. Valvulitis: a new echocardiographic criterion for the diagnosis of bioprosthetic aortic valve infective endocarditis. 2024; 77:859-867. doi: 10.1016/j.rec.2024.03.002

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38521440/
