PMID: 38532541
Title: Case Report of Overlapping Pyloric Obstruction Due to Dichlorvos Poisoning and Cholelithiasis with Choledocholithiasis.

Abstract: BACKGROUND Pyloric obstruction after dichlorvos poisoning causes repeated vomiting and inability to eat. Choledocholithiasis and cholelithiasis are the common digestive diseases, with high morbidity and relapse in elderly patients. However, the complex situation of these diseases' coexistence is a clinically intractable problem, and literature on selecting optimal surgical planning is scarce. CASE REPORT A thin 79-year-old woman took dichlorvos due to family conflicts. She improved after being urgently sent to local hospital for gastric lavage and detoxification. Over the next 3 months, she presented with intermittent nausea, vomiting, epigastric pain, and mental apathy, and was readmitted. Gastroscopy showed extensive scarring in the antrum, pyloric obstruction, and gastric retention. Magnetic resonance cholangiopancreatography revealed gallstones and choledocholithiasis. Also, she presented with gastric retention, hypertension, moderate anemia, hypoproteinemia, and electrolyte disturbances. After hospitalization, conservative treatment was performed, without improving vomiting, followed by surgical treatment. Gastrojejunostomy, Braun anastomosis, and nasojejunal feeding tube placement were performed for pyloric stenosis; cholecystectomy for cholelithiasis; and choledochotomy, intraoperative choledochoscopy examination, basket stone extraction, and primary suture of common bile duct without indwelling T tube for choledocholithiasis. Patient recovered and was discharged 9 days after surgery. She was recovered well, without vomiting, at 2-month follow-up. CONCLUSIONS Gastrojejunostomy plus Braun anastomosis is effective treatment of elderly patients with pyloric obstruction formed after pesticide-induced corrosion. Careful selection of choledocholithotomy with primary suture without indwelling T tube reduced postoperative pain and accelerated recovery. This complex case of pyloric obstruction with gallbladder and bile duct stones provides useful considerations for clinical treatment.

Citation: Peng J, et al. Case Report of Overlapping Pyloric Obstruction Due to Dichlorvos Poisoning and Cholelithiasis with Choledocholithiasis. Case Report of Overlapping Pyloric Obstruction Due to Dichlorvos Poisoning and Cholelithiasis with Choledocholithiasis. 2024; 25:e943101. doi: 10.12659/AJCR.943101

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38532541/
