PMID: 38534477
Title: Carotid Artery Bypass Surgery of In-Body Tissue Architecture-Induced Small-Diameter Biotube in a Goat Model: A Pilot Study.

Abstract: Biotubes are autologous tubular tissues developed within a patient's body through in-body tissue architecture, and they demonstrate high potential for early clinical application as a vascular replacement. In this pilot study, we used large animals to perform implantation experiments in preparation for preclinical testing of Biotube. The biological response after Biotube implantation was histologically evaluated. The designed Biotubes (length: 50 cm, internal diameter: 4 mm, and wall thickness: 0.85 mm) were obtained by embedding molds on the backs of six goats for a predetermined period (1-5 months). The same goats underwent bypass surgery on the carotid arteries using Biotubes (average length: 12 cm). After implantation, echocardiography was used to periodically monitor patency and blood flow velocity. The maximum observation period was 6 months, and tissue analysis was conducted after graft removal, including the anastomosis. All molds generated Biotubes that exceeded the tensile strength of normal goat carotid arteries, and eight randomly selected Biotubes were implanted. Thrombotic occlusion occurred immediately postoperatively (1 tube) if anticoagulation was insufficient, and two tubes, with insufficient Biotube strength (<5 N), were ruptured within a week. Five tubes maintained patency for >2 months without aneurysm formation. The spots far from the anastomosis became stenosed within 3 months (3 tubes) when Biotubes had a wide intensity distribution, but the shape of the remaining two tubes remained unchanged for 6 months. The entire length of the bypass region was walled with an αSMA-positive cell layer, and an endothelial cell layer covered most of the lumen at 2 months. Complete endothelial laying of the luminal surface was obtained at 3 months after implantation, and a vascular wall structure similar to that of native blood vessels was formed, which was maintained even at 6 months. The stenosis was indicated to be caused by fibrin adhesion on the luminal surface, migration of repair macrophages, and granulation formation due to the overproliferation of αSMA-positive fibroblasts. We revealed the importance of Biotubes that are homogeneous, demonstrate a tensile strength > 5 N, and are implanted under appropriate antithrombotic conditions to achieve long-term patency of Biotube. Further, we clarified the Biotube regeneration process and the mechanism of stenosis. Finally, we obtained the necessary conditions for a confirmatory implant study planned shortly.

Citation: Umeno T, et al. Carotid Artery Bypass Surgery of In-Body Tissue Architecture-Induced Small-Diameter Biotube in a Goat Model: A Pilot Study. Carotid Artery Bypass Surgery of In-Body Tissue Architecture-Induced Small-Diameter Biotube in a Goat Model: A Pilot Study. 2024; 11:(unknown pages). doi: 10.3390/bioengineering11030203

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38534477/
