PMID: 38532846
Title: Predicting Endothelium-Dependent Diastolic Function (FMD) and Its Correlation with the Degree of Coronary Artery Disease (CAD) and Plaque Vulnerability for Cardiovascular Events.

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: This study aims to investigate the correlation between vascular endothelium-dependent diastolic function (FMD) and the degree of coronary artery disease (CAD), plaque vulnerability, and its predictive value for cardiovascular events.
METHODS: Initially, patients (n=100) who were admitted from January 2020 to January 2021 and intended to undergo percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) were selected. Further, FMD in all patients was determined before the procedure and divided into a high-FMD group (≥4.2%) and a low-FMD group (<4.2%). Further, the data of two groups, including general information, coronary artery lesions, and plaque fibrous cap, were compared. Finally, the relationship between FMD and the degree of coronary artery lesions and plaque vulnerability was analyzed.
RESULTS: No significant differences were observed concerning general information, number of coronary arteries-associated branches, lesion type, involvement of the left main stem (LM), the proportion of chronic occluded lesions (CTO), and lipid pool angle between the low-FMD group and the high-FMD group (P > 0.05). Nevertheless, the degree of stenosis of the lesions in the low-FMD group was significantly higher than in the high-FMD group (P < 0.05). In addition, the thickness of the fibrous cap was considerably lower than that in the high-FMD group (P < 0.05). Moreover, the incidence rate of TCFA was significantly higher than the high-FMD group (P < 0.05). The correlation analysis showed that FMD was significantly negatively correlated with the degree of coronary artery lesion stenosis and TCFA (P < 0.05) and positively correlated with the fibrous cap thickness (P < 0.05).
CONCLUSION: Overall, a negative correlation between FMD and the degree of coronary stenosis, plaque vulnerability, and a high predictive value for post-PCI cardiovascular events suggested that FMD could be a critical diagnostic marker for CAD.

Citation: Zhang G, et al. Predicting Endothelium-Dependent Diastolic Function (FMD) and Its Correlation with the Degree of Coronary Artery Disease (CAD) and Plaque Vulnerability for Cardiovascular Events. Predicting Endothelium-Dependent Diastolic Function (FMD) and Its Correlation with the Degree of Coronary Artery Disease (CAD) and Plaque Vulnerability for Cardiovascular Events. 2024; 17:1117-1125. doi: 10.2147/IJGM.S435417

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38532846/
