PMID: 38540143
Title: Antiphospholipid Antibodies Are Major Risk Factors for Non-Thrombotic Cardiac Complications in Systemic Lupus Erythematosus.

Abstract: In systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE), cardiovascular complications are among the leading causes of death. Cardiovascular risk in SLE is even higher in the presence of antiphospholipid antibodies or secondary antiphospholipid syndrome (APS). The aim of this retrospective, single-center study was to investigate the occurrence of antiphospholipid antibodies and non-thrombotic cardiac manifestations in 369 SLE patients. We also assessed the clinical and laboratory characteristics of the patients to reveal the risk factors for cardiac manifestations. Patients were divided into two groups based on the presence of antiphospholipid antibodies (APA); 258 (69.9%) patients were APA positive, and 111 (30.1%) patients were APA negative. Mitral and tricuspid insufficiency, aortic stenosis and pulmonary arterial hypertension were more common in APA-positive patients. Anticardiolipin IgG showed the strongest correlation with any non-thrombotic cardiac manifestations. Based on our results, the adjusted global antiphospholipid syndrome score (aGAPSS) above 8.5 is predictive of valvulopathies and ischemic heart disease, while aGAPSS above 9.5 is predictive of cardiomyopathies. The presence of antiphospholipid antibodies may affect the development of cardiac manifestations in SLE. Periodic cardiological and echocardiographic screening of patients without cardiac complaints, as well as regular monitoring of antiphospholipid antibodies, have great importance during the treatment of SLE patients.

Citation: Nagy N, et al. Antiphospholipid Antibodies Are Major Risk Factors for Non-Thrombotic Cardiac Complications in Systemic Lupus Erythematosus. Antiphospholipid Antibodies Are Major Risk Factors for Non-Thrombotic Cardiac Complications in Systemic Lupus Erythematosus. 2024; 12:(unknown pages). doi: 10.3390/biomedicines12030530

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38540143/
