PMID: 38545133
Title: Mitigation of bio-corrosion characteristics of coronary artery stent by optimising fs-laser micromachining parameters.

Abstract: Cardiovascular diseases, particularly coronary artery disease, pose big challenges to human life. Deployment of the stent is a preferable treatment for the above-mentioned disease. However, stents are usually made up of shape memory alloy called Nitinol. The poorer surface finish on the machined nitinol stents accelerates the migration of Nickel ions from the implanted nitinol stent, which is considered toxic and can lead to stenosis. The current study deals with controlling surface quality by minimising surface roughness and improving corrosion resistance. Femtosecond laser (fs-laser 10-15 s) micromachining was employed to machine the Nitinol surface to achieve sub-micron surface roughness. The Grey relational analysis (GRA)-coupled design of the experimental technique was implemented to determine optimal levels of four micromachining parameters (laser power, pulse frequency, scanning speed, and scanning pattern) varied at three levels to achieve minimum surface roughness and to maximise the volume ablation. The results show that to yield minimum surface roughness and maximum volume ablation, laser power and scanning speed are in a higher range. In contrast, the pulse frequency is lower, and the scanning pattern is in a zig-zag manner. ANOVA results manifest that scanning speed is the predominant factor in minimising surface roughness, followed by pulse frequency. Furthermore, the corrosion behaviour of the machined nitinol specimens was evaluated, and the results show that specimens with lower surface roughness had lower corrosion rates.

Citation: Chenrayan V, et al. Mitigation of bio-corrosion characteristics of coronary artery stent by optimising fs-laser micromachining parameters. Mitigation of bio-corrosion characteristics of coronary artery stent by optimising fs-laser micromachining parameters. 2024; 10:e28057. doi: 10.1016/j.heliyon.2024.e28057

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38545133/
