PMID: 38541182
Title: Takayasu's Arteritis: A Special Case Report and Review of the Literature.

Abstract: Background: Takayasu's arteritis is a rare type of vasculitis with severe complications like stroke, ischemic heart disease, pulmonary hypertension, secondary hypertension, and aneurysms. Diagnosis is achieved using clinical and angiographic criteria. Treatment is medical and surgical, but unfortunately, the outcome is limited. Case presentation: A 34-year-old Caucasian woman had an ischemic stroke (2009). She was diagnosed with Takayasu's arteritis and received treatment with methotrexate, prednisolone, and antiplatelet agents, with a mild improvement in clinical state. After 6 years (2015), she experienced an ascending aorta aneurysm, pulmonary hypertension, and mild aortic regurgitation. Surgical treatment solved both the ascending aorta aneurysm and left carotid artery stenosis (ultrasound in 2009 and computed tomography angiogram in 2014). Morphopathology revealed a typical case of Takayasu's arteritis. Tumor necrosis factor inhibitors (TNF inhibitors) were prescribed with methotrexate. At 48 years old (2023), she developed coronary heart disease (angina, electrocardiogram); echocardiography revealed severe pulmonary hypertension, and angiography revealed normal coronary arteries, abdominal aorta pseudoaneurysm, and arterial-venous fistula originating in the right coronary artery with drainage in the medium pulmonary artery. The patient refused surgical/interventional treatment. She again received TNF inhibitors, methotrexate, antiplatelet agents, and statins. Conclusions: This case report presented a severe form of Takayasu's arteritis. Our patient had multiple arterial complications, as previously mentioned. She received immunosuppressive treatment, medication targeted to coronary heart disease, and surgical therapy.

Citation: Moisii P, et al. Takayasu's Arteritis: A Special Case Report and Review of the Literature. Takayasu's Arteritis: A Special Case Report and Review of the Literature. 2024; 60:(unknown pages). doi: 10.3390/medicina60030456

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38541182/
