PMID: 38544878
Title: Congenital Tracheal Stenosis Patients Undergoing Modified Slide Tracheoplasty: Single-Centre Technique and Long-Term Morbidity and Mortality.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Congenital malformations of the trachea are rare but often life-threatening. Limited data have been published on the outcomes of tracheal reconstruction for congenital tracheal stenosis. We sought to describe the outcomes of patients undergoing tracheal reconstruction over 10 years at our centre.
METHODS: All paediatric patients who underwent long-segment tracheal or bronchial reconstruction from January 1, 2012, to August 31, 2022, were included. The primary outcome was mortality, and secondary outcomes included reoperation and postoperative morbidity. Patients were followed up to 10 years.
RESULTS: Thirty-three patients with ages ranging from 1 day to 12 years (mean 8.5 months) at the time of tracheoplasty or bronchoplasty were included, with 5 patients undergoing off-pump tracheal reconstruction. The most common preoperative comorbidities included patent ductus arteriosus (30.3%), atrial septal defect (27.3%), and prematurity (24.2%). There were no deaths postoperatively within the follow-up period. All patients experienced successful reconstruction with no patients requiring reoperation of the trachea. A total of 14 patients (42.4%) required postoperative balloon dilation, 3 (9.1%) required bronchial repair after tracheal repair, and 2 (6.1%) required bronchoscopic tracheal debridement.
CONCLUSIONS: This single-centre retrospective study provides a large cohort of congenital tracheal reconstruction patients with a survival rate of 100%, experiencing no mortality during follow-up. The majority of patients had preoperative comorbidities and concomitant congenital cardiac defects. Although tracheal reconstruction continues to be complex with significant postoperative morbidity and mortality, the results of our single-centre study demonstrate the continual advancement of this field and the evolving improvement of postoperative outcomes for these patients.

Citation: El-Andari R, et al. Congenital Tracheal Stenosis Patients Undergoing Modified Slide Tracheoplasty: Single-Centre Technique and Long-Term Morbidity and Mortality. Congenital Tracheal Stenosis Patients Undergoing Modified Slide Tracheoplasty: Single-Centre Technique and Long-Term Morbidity and Mortality. 2024; 3:24-32. doi: 10.1016/j.cjcpc.2023.10.003

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38544878/
