PMID: 38541780
Title: The Value of a Coronary Computed Tomography Angiography plus Stress Cardiac Magnetic Resonance Imaging Strategy for the Evaluation of Patients with Chronic Coronary Syndrome.

Abstract: Background: Noninvasive imaging methods, either anatomical or functional tests, serve as essential instruments for the appropriate management of patients with established or suspected coronary artery disease (CAD). We sought to evaluate the safety and efficacy of a coronary computed tomography angiography (CCTA) plus stress cardiac magnetic resonance imaging (S-CMR) strategy in patients with chronic coronary syndrome (CCS). Methods: Patients with suspected CCS showing intermediate coronary plaques (stenosis 30-70%) at CCTA underwent S-CMR. Patients with a positive S-CMR were referred to invasive coronary angiography (ICA) plus instantaneous wave-free ratio (iFR), and myocardial revascularization if recommended. All patients received guideline-directed medical therapy (GDMT), including high-dose statins, regardless of myocardial revascularization. The primary endpoint was a composite of death from cardiovascular causes, non-fatal myocardial infarction, and unplanned revascularization. Results: According to the results of CCTA, 62 patients showing intermediate coronary plaques underwent S-CMR, which was positive for a myocardial perfusion deficit in n = 17 (27%) and negative in n = 45 (73%) patients. According to the results of ICA plus iFR, revascularization was performed in 13 patients. No differences in the primary endpoint between the positive and negative S-CMR groups were observed at 1 year (1 [5.9%] vs. 1 [2.2%], p = 0.485) and after a median of 33.4 months (2 [11.8%] vs. 3 [6.7%]; p = 0.605). Conclusions: Our study suggests that a CCTA plus S-CMR strategy is effective for the evaluation of patients with suspicion of CCS at low-intermediate risk, and it may help to refine the selection of patients with intermediate coronary plaques at CCTA needing coronary revascularization.

Citation: Busi G, et al. The Value of a Coronary Computed Tomography Angiography plus Stress Cardiac Magnetic Resonance Imaging Strategy for the Evaluation of Patients with Chronic Coronary Syndrome. The Value of a Coronary Computed Tomography Angiography plus Stress Cardiac Magnetic Resonance Imaging Strategy for the Evaluation of Patients with Chronic Coronary Syndrome. 2024; 13:(unknown pages). doi: 10.3390/jcm13061556

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38541780/
