PMID: 38559548
Title: White Cord Syndrome Following Cervical Surgery in a Patient With Klippel-Feil Syndrome: A Case Report.

Abstract: White cord syndrome is a rare entity, as there are very few cases described in the current literature. Postoperative MRI examination reveals cord intrinsic changes, including edema and ischemia. It is also described as a reperfusion injury of the spinal cord. This report depicts a rare case of "white cord syndrome" with tetraplegia after posterior laminectomy and fusion of the cervical spine in a patient with Klippel-Feil syndrome. A 33-year-old male patient with Klippel-Feil syndrome presented to our department with cervical myelopathy, claudication, deteriorating neurological status, imbalance, and lower limb spasticity. Due to kyphotic malformation of the cervical spine, a two-stage surgical intervention was scheduled. The patient first underwent anterior spinal fusion of C4-C6 with corpectomy of C5, where many anatomical and visceral differentiations were signed, so the surgical team was enhanced by a vascular surgeon. The postoperative period was uneventful and the patient was discharged after a week of hospitalization without any neurological deterioration. A second surgical intervention was scheduled after two months where laminectomy of C5-C7 and posterior fusion of C5-T1 were carried out. However, due to intraoperative spinal instability and various anatomical spinal variations, a third surgery, which would be occipitocervical fusion, was decided as the final surgical solution. During the third surgical operation, after the laminectomy of C1 to C5 and the placement of the occipital plate, the screws, and the two rods in situ, complete nullification of the intraoperative neurophysiologic control was signed. The internal fixation was removed immediately, the wake-up test revealed tetraplegia below C5, and the patient was transferred to the ICU. Immediate MRI revealed no spinal cord hematoma; however, spinal cord edema was present. The patient underwent a tracheostomy and remained quadriplegic with a sensory level of T8 and motor level of C5 and was discharged to a rehabilitation center. The possibility of white cord syndrome should be explained by surgeons before any cervical decompression surgery, as well as a thorough neurological examination should be performed postoperatively. The early recognition and prompt management of white cord syndrome is recommended.

Citation: Chatzikomninos I, et al. White Cord Syndrome Following Cervical Surgery in a Patient With Klippel-Feil Syndrome: A Case Report. White Cord Syndrome Following Cervical Surgery in a Patient With Klippel-Feil Syndrome: A Case Report. 2024; 16:e55353. doi: 10.7759/cureus.55353

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38559548/
