PMID: 38555707
Title: Use of combined cutting balloon and high-pressure balloon technique for the treatment of double-chambered right ventricle or primary infundibular stenosis: a case series.

Abstract: Five dogs and two cats with a diagnosis of double-chambered right ventricle or primary infundibular stenosis were referred to undergo a combined cutting balloon and high-pressure balloon technique. At admission five cases were asymptomatic, one had a history of syncope and one had signs of right-sided congestive heart failure. Each patient underwent a complete transthoracic echocardiogram, thoracic radiographs, an angiogram and the combined interventional procedure. Median diameter of the right mid-ventricular stenosis was 4 mm (range 2-8.7 mm) in dogs, and it measured 1.9 and 2 mm in cats. Under general anesthesia initial dilation with an 8-mm × 2-cm cutting balloon was performed from a left external jugular vein approach followed by dilation with a high-pressure balloon (1.5:1 balloon diameter-right outflow tract diameter ratio). In one dog and the two cats the procedure was not completed due to technical issues. In the other four dogs the median intracavitary proximal chamber pressure decreased from 100 mmHg (range 70-150 mmHg) before the procedure to 57 mmHg (range 45-70 mmHg) post-dilation. Long-term follow-up (from six months to two years) showed complete or partial reverse remodeling of the proximal chamber with a median residual pressure gradient below 80 mmHg (range 46-75 mmHg) for all four dogs. This case series shows that this procedure should be considered in dogs with right ventricular outflow tract obstruction. In cats, the procedure might be feasible, if additional guidewire inventory were available.

Citation: Maffei A, et al. Use of combined cutting balloon and high-pressure balloon technique for the treatment of double-chambered right ventricle or primary infundibular stenosis: a case series. Use of combined cutting balloon and high-pressure balloon technique for the treatment of double-chambered right ventricle or primary infundibular stenosis: a case series. 2024; 53:6-12. doi: 10.1016/j.jvc.2024.01.003

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38555707/
