PMID: 38551422
Title: Analysis of Distribution of Intracranial and Extracranial Atherosclerotic Lesions and Risk Factors for Recurrence in First-Ever and Recurrent Ischemic Stroke Patients in Northeast China.

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: The purpose of this study is to analyze the distribution characteristics of atherosclerotic lesions and the risk factors of recurrence in patients with ischemic stroke.
METHODS: A total of 505 patients diagnosed with ischemic stroke from October 2016 to October 2022 were included. Divide 505 patients with ischemic stroke into old stroke group and new stroke group. Patients without old cerebral infarction were included in the first ischemic stroke group (first group), while patients with old cerebral infarction were included in the recurrent ischemic stroke group (recurrence group).Carotid artery color Doppler ultrasonography and transcranial Doppler ultrasonography were performed on all patients.
RESULTS: We compared the distribution and risk factors of atherosclerotic lesions between the first and recurrent groups (378 cases) (127 cases). Mild, moderate, and severe stenosis of the middle cerebral artery (MCA) and occlusion of the intracranial vertebral artery (VA) were the most common in both groups. Intracranial artery stenosis is significantly higher than extracranial artery stenosis, and the anterior circulation artery is more affected than the posterior circulation artery. In the initial and recurrent groups, the proportion of patients with intracranial artery stenosis was significantly higher than that of patients with extracranial artery stenosis (43.4% vs. 22.5% and 53.4% vs. 22.5%), and the number of patients with anterior circulation stenosis was higher than that of other groups. Compared with the first group, the recurrence group had a higher incidence of hypertension, dyslipidemia, and insufficient physical exercise. There is a significant difference in the levels of triglycerides (TG) and platelets (PLT) between the two groups in biochemical indicators. In the first group, infarction was most common in 284 cases (75.1%) of the frontal lobe, followed by 232 cases (61.4%) of the basal ganglia, and 147 cases (38.9%) of the parietal lobe. In the recurrence group, the proportion of frontal lobe infarction [284 (74.0%)], basal ganglia infarction [232 (70.1%)], and parietal lobe infarction [147 (37.0%)] was the highest. It can be observed that the recurrence group had a higher incidence of basal ganglia infarction (70.1% vs. 61.4%), but a lower incidence of occipital lobe infarction (0.8% vs. 4.2%).
CONCLUSIONS: Our study found no significant difference in the distribution of intracranial and extracranial atherosclerotic lesions between first-ever and recurrent ischemic stroke patients in China. Notably, hypertension, years of dyslipidemia, insufficient physical exercise, elevated triglyceride (TG) levels, and increased platelet (PLT) counts were identified as significant risk factors for stroke recurrence. These findings may have implications for the management and prevention of recurrent ischemic strokes in clinical practice.

Citation: Sun Y, et al. Analysis of Distribution of Intracranial and Extracranial Atherosclerotic Lesions and Risk Factors for Recurrence in First-Ever and Recurrent Ischemic Stroke Patients in Northeast China. Analysis of Distribution of Intracranial and Extracranial Atherosclerotic Lesions and Risk Factors for Recurrence in First-Ever and Recurrent Ischemic Stroke Patients in Northeast China. 2024; (unknown volume):(unknown pages).

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38551422/
