PMID: 38556576
Title: Impact of rise and fall phases of shear on platelet activation and aggregation using microfluidics.

Abstract: Blood flow disorders are often the result of the non-physiological narrowing of blood arteries caused by atherosclerosis and thrombus. The blood then proceeds through rising-peak-decreasing phases as it passes through the narrow area. Although abnormally high shear is known to activate platelets, the shear process that platelets undergo in small arteries is complex. Thus, understanding how each shear phase affects platelet activation can be used to improve antiplatelet therapy and decrease the risk of side effects like bleeding. Blood samples were sheared (68.8 ms,5200 s-1) in vitro by the microfluidic technique, and platelet activation levels (P-selectin and integrin αIIbβ3) and von Willebrand factor (vWF) binding to platelets were analyzed by flow cytometry. Post-stenosis platelet aggregation was dynamically detected using microfluidic technology. We studied TXA2, P2Y<sub>12</sub>-ADP, and integrin αIIbβ3-fibrinogen receptor pathways by adding antiplatelet drugs, such as acetylsalicylic acid (ASA, an active ingredient of aspirin that inhibits platelet metabolism), ticagrelor (hinders platelet activation), and tirofiban (blocks integrin αIIbβ3 receptor) in vitro, respectively, to determine platelet activation function mediated by transient non-physiological high shear rates. We demonstrated that platelets can be activated under transient pathological high shear rates. The shear rise and fall phases influenced shear-induced platelet activation by regulating the binding of vWF to platelets. The degree of platelet activation and aggregation increased with multiple shear rise and fall phases. ASA did not inhibit shear-mediated platelet activation, but ticagrelor and tirofiban effectively inhibited shear-mediated platelet activation. Our data demonstrated that the shear rise and fall phases play an important role in shear-mediated platelet activation and promote platelet activation and aggregation in a vWF-dependent manner. Blocking integrin αIIbβ3 receptor and hindering P2Y<sub>12</sub>-ADP were beneficial to reducing shear-mediated platelet activation.

Citation: Gao X, et al. Impact of rise and fall phases of shear on platelet activation and aggregation using microfluidics. Impact of rise and fall phases of shear on platelet activation and aggregation using microfluidics. 2024; 57:576-586. doi: 10.1007/s11239-024-02968-1

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38556576/
