PMID: 38555831
Title: Remarkable recovery of lower extremity motor impairment in degenerative disc disease after percutaneous laser disc decompression combined with umbilical cord-derived mesenchymal stem cells implantation: A case report.

Abstract: INTRODUCTION AND IMPORTANCE: Degenerative disc disease (DDD) is a common cause of low back pain, often leading to significant discomfort for patients. Current treatment options such as spinal fusion and physical therapy focus on symptom management rather than addressing the underlying degeneration. Percutaneous laser disc decompression (PLDD) has shown efficacy in treating radicular pain associated with disc herniation. However, there is a growing interest in utilizing tissue engineering approaches to reverse the pathological process of DDD. While results in larger vertebrates have been inconsistent, mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) have demonstrated promise in small animal models.
CASE PRESENTATION: A 46-year-old male presented with low back pain as well as urinary and fecal incontinence. Magnetic resonance imaging revealed disc bulging and foraminal stenosis at the L2-L4 levels. The patient underwent PLDD combined with umbilical cord-derived mesenchymal stem cells (UC-MSCs) injection, which later resulted in significant pain reduction and improved motor function. At six months of follow-up, the patient reported sustained pain relief and functional improvement.
CLINICAL DISCUSSION: Percutaneous decompression techniques not only substantially reduce intradiscal pressure and facilitate the implosion of herniation inward but also concurrently expedite the degeneration of the intervertebral disc. Therefore, in addition to performing PLDD, stem cell injection is also carried out. This report underscores the importance of integrating mechanical and biological interventions for degenerative disc diseases, suggesting PLDD combined with MSC therapy as a promising strategy for managing DDD and potentially reversing its progression. We found that the patient had decreased pain postoperatively; he no longer complained of pain after six months of follow-up.
CONCLUSION: PLDD combined with UC-MSCs might be an alternative treatment for patients with DDD. In addition to mechanical treatment, biological treatment with MSC injections is believed to be a potent combination for treating degenerative diseases such as DDD.

Citation: Rahyussalim AJ, et al. Remarkable recovery of lower extremity motor impairment in degenerative disc disease after percutaneous laser disc decompression combined with umbilical cord-derived mesenchymal stem cells implantation: A case report. Remarkable recovery of lower extremity motor impairment in degenerative disc disease after percutaneous laser disc decompression combined with umbilical cord-derived mesenchymal stem cells implantation: A case report. 2024; 118:109576. doi: 10.1016/j.ijscr.2024.109576

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38555831/
