PMID: 38552748
Title: The application value of 3D ASL in evaluating the effectiveness of stent implantation for vertebrobasilar artery stenosis.

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the effect of stent implantation for vertebrobasilar artery stenosis，by using 3D arterial spin labeling (3D ASL) technique.
METHODS: A retrospective analysis was conducted on the clinical and 3D ASL data of 48 patients who underwent vertebral-basilar artery stenting. Post-labeling delay times (PLD) of 1.5 s and 2.5 s were chosen, and the average regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) values were measured in nine brain regions of the posterior circulation: bilateral thalamus, bilateral occipital lobes, bilateral cerebellar hemispheres, midbrain, pons, and medulla. The 48 patients were divided into two groups based on the presence or absence of acute ischemic stroke in the posterior cerebral circulation region detected by diffusion-weighted imaging (DWI). The preoperative and postoperative rCBF results were statistically analyzed.
RESULTS: In the infarct group, there were significant increases in rCBF values of all nine brain regions at both PLD = 1.5 s and 2.5 s postoperatively compared to preoperatively. At PLD = 1.5 s, statistically significant differences in rCBF values between the preoperative and postoperative periods were found in the right thalamus, left cerebellum, midbrain, and pons regions (P < 0.05). At PLD = 2.5 s, statistically significant differences in rCBF values between the preoperative and postoperative periods were observed in the left occipital lobe, right cerebellum, midbrain, and pons regions (P < 0.05). When analyzing the rCBF values of the brain regions with recent infarcts in the infarct group, there was a significant increase in postoperative rCBF values compared to preoperative values (P < 0.05). After excluding the data from brain regions with recent infarcts, the CBF values in the remaining brain regions were also increased postoperatively, and some brain regions showed statistically significant differences in rCBF values between the preoperative and postoperative periods (P < 0.05). In the non-infarct group, there were no statistically significant differences in the preoperative and postoperative rCBF values in all brain regions at both PLD = 1.5 s and 2.5 s (P > 0.05).
CONCLUSION: The application of 3D ASL technology shows significant value in assessing the surgical efficacy of vertebral-basilar artery stenting, especially in patients with acute posterior circulation infarction.

Citation: Cheng XY, et al. The application value of 3D ASL in evaluating the effectiveness of stent implantation for vertebrobasilar artery stenosis. The application value of 3D ASL in evaluating the effectiveness of stent implantation for vertebrobasilar artery stenosis. 2024; 110:23-28. doi: 10.1016/j.mri.2024.03.038

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38552748/
