PMID: 38554727
Title: The future of valvular heart disease assessment and therapy.

Abstract: Valvular heart disease (VHD) is becoming more prevalent in an ageing population, leading to challenges in diagnosis and management. This two-part Series offers a comprehensive review of changing concepts in VHD, covering diagnosis, intervention timing, novel management strategies, and the current state of research. The first paper highlights the remarkable progress made in imaging and transcatheter techniques, effectively addressing the treatment paradox wherein populations at the highest risk of VHD often receive the least treatment. These advances have attracted the attention of clinicians, researchers, engineers, device manufacturers, and investors, leading to the exploration and proposal of treatment approaches grounded in pathophysiology and multidisciplinary strategies for VHD management. This Series paper focuses on innovations involving computational, pharmacological, and bioengineering approaches that are transforming the diagnosis and management of patients with VHD. Artificial intelligence and digital methods are enhancing screening, diagnosis, and planning procedures, and the integration of imaging and clinical data is improving the classification of VHD severity. The emergence of artificial intelligence techniques, including so-called digital twins-eg, computer-generated replicas of the heart-is aiding the development of new strategies for enhanced risk stratification, prognostication, and individualised therapeutic targeting. Various new molecular targets and novel pharmacological strategies are being developed, including multiomics-ie, analytical methods used to integrate complex biological big data to find novel pathways to halt the progression of VHD. In addition, efforts have been undertaken to engineer heart valve tissue and provide a living valve conduit capable of growth and biological integration. Overall, these advances emphasise the importance of early detection, personalised management, and cutting-edge interventions to optimise outcomes amid the evolving landscape of VHD. Although several challenges must be overcome, these breakthroughs represent opportunities to advance patient-centred investigations.

Citation: Sengupta PP, et al. The future of valvular heart disease assessment and therapy. The future of valvular heart disease assessment and therapy. 2024; 403:1590-1602. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(23)02754-X

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38554727/
