PMID: 38564077
Title: Standardizing urethral stricture models in rats: a comprehensive study on histomorphologic and molecular approach.

Abstract: PURPOSE: To create a reproducible and standardized urethral stricture model in rats, evaluating both histomorphologic findings and gene expression data. In studies involving experimental animals, more standardization is needed for the creation of a urethral stricture model.
METHODS: Sixteen male rats were randomized into two groups. The Sham group (n:8) underwent only a penoscrotal incision, while the stricture group (n:8) had their urethras exposed through a penoscrotal incision, followed by electrocauterization to the corpus spongiosum. On the 15th day, blood and urethral tissues were harvested for histologic and molecular analyses. Histomorphologic, immunohistochemical, and reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction analyses were performed.
RESULTS: The stricture group exhibited more severe and intense spongiofibrosis, inflammation, epithelial desquamation, and congestion in vascular structures compared to the controls (p < 0.05). The urethral tissue in the stricture group showed an increased ratio of inflammation parameters, including Collagen 1A1, Collagen 3A1, elastin, Transforming growth factor β1, α Smooth muscle actin, Platelet-derived growth factor α, and Platelet-derived growth factor β. Transforming growth factor β1, Platelet-derived growth factor α, and Platelet-derived growth factor β each correlated highly with the other six parameters (r > 0.60, p < 0.05).
CONCLUSION: Developing electrocoagulation-induced urethral stricture in rats is a simple, reliable, inexpensive, and reproducible. Reporting histologic data with qualitative and semi-quantitative scoring will enhance data standardization, aiding reader understanding and analysis. Transforming growth factor β and Platelet-derived growth factor play key roles in fibrosis during stricture development. Incorporating these cytokines in urethral stricture animal model studies can demonstrate successful stenosis creation.

Citation: Ergün O, et al. Standardizing urethral stricture models in rats: a comprehensive study on histomorphologic and molecular approach. Standardizing urethral stricture models in rats: a comprehensive study on histomorphologic and molecular approach. 2024; 56:2945-2954. doi: 10.1007/s11255-024-04034-4

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38564077/
