PMID: 38567018
Title: Association of Preoperative Osteoporotic Vertebral Compression Fractures with Muscle Atrophy in Lumbar Spinal Stenosis: A Retrospective Cohort Study.

Abstract: OBJECTIVES: Osteoporotic vertebral compression fractures (OVCFs) are common in older individuals and lead to pain, spinal deformities, and limited mobility. Paraspinal muscle function correlates with fracture severity, and this association may be more significant in patients with lumbar spinal stenosis (LSS). However, studies on the effects of OVCFs are lacking. This study aimed to investigate the relationship between OVCFs, fat infiltration, and muscle atrophy in patients with LSS.
METHODS: This study included 177 patients with preoperative LSS, of whom 16 had OVCFs and 161 did not. Lumbar lordosis angle, fat infiltration, and paraspinal muscle atrophy were evaluated in these patients. Information on patient characteristics such as smoking, diabetes, hemodialysis, steroid use, American Society of Anesthesiologists score, and bladder or bowel dysfunction were obtained from medical records. Logistic regression analysis was conducted to identify factors independently associated with OVCF.
RESULTS: Patients in the OVCF group were significantly older (P=0.006) than those without fractures, and a higher proportion of the OVCF group showed muscle atrophy (P=0.034). Significant variables and those with moderate effect sizes were included in the logistic regression analysis. Muscle atrophy (P=0.028) was independently associated with OVCF.
CONCLUSIONS: Muscle atrophy was associated with preoperative OVCFs in patients with LSS. Identifying OVCFs in these patients may underscore the importance of tailored treatment and rehabilitation strategies for the paraspinal muscles.

Citation: Suzuki K, et al. Association of Preoperative Osteoporotic Vertebral Compression Fractures with Muscle Atrophy in Lumbar Spinal Stenosis: A Retrospective Cohort Study. Association of Preoperative Osteoporotic Vertebral Compression Fractures with Muscle Atrophy in Lumbar Spinal Stenosis: A Retrospective Cohort Study. 2024; 9:20240011. doi: 10.2490/prm.20240011

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38567018/
