PMID: 38564074
Title: Multiscale Finite Element Modeling of Left Ventricular Growth in Simulations of Valve Disease.

Abstract: Multiscale models of the cardiovascular system are emerging as effective tools for investigating the mechanisms that drive ventricular growth and remodeling. These models can predict how molecular-level mechanisms impact organ-level structure and function and could provide new insights that help improve patient care. MyoFE is a multiscale computer framework that bridges molecular and organ-level mechanisms in a finite element model of the left ventricle that is coupled with the systemic circulation. In this study, we extend MyoFE to include a growth algorithm, based on volumetric growth theory, to simulate concentric growth (wall thickening/thinning) and eccentric growth (chamber dilation/constriction) in response to valvular diseases. Specifically in our model, concentric growth is controlled by time-averaged total stress along the fiber direction over a cardiac cycle while eccentric growth responds to time-averaged intracellular myofiber passive stress over a cardiac cycle. The new framework correctly predicted different forms of growth in response to two types of valvular diseases, namely aortic stenosis and mitral regurgitation. Furthermore, the model predicted that LV size and function are nearly restored (reversal of growth) when the disease-mimicking perturbation was removed in the simulations for each valvular disorder. In conclusion, the simulations suggest that time-averaged total stress along the fiber direction and time-averaged intracellular myofiber passive stress can be used to drive concentric and eccentric growth in simulations of valve disease.

Citation: Sharifi H, et al. Multiscale Finite Element Modeling of Left Ventricular Growth in Simulations of Valve Disease. Multiscale Finite Element Modeling of Left Ventricular Growth in Simulations of Valve Disease. 2024; 52:2024-2038. doi: 10.1007/s10439-024-03497-x

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38564074/
