PMID: 38565813
Title: A comprehensive evaluation of 80 consecutive robotic low anterior resections: impact of not mobilizing the splenic flexure alongside low-tie vascular ligation as a standardized technique.

Abstract: Rectal cancer surgery represents challenges due to its location. To overcome them and minimize the risk of anastomosis-related complications, some technical maneuvers or even a diverting ileostomy may be required. One of these technical steps is the mobilization of the splenic flexure (SFM), especially in medium/low rectal cancer. High-tie vascular ligation may be another one. However, the need of these maneuvers may be controversial, as especially SFM may be time-consuming and increase the risk of iatrogenic. The objective is to present the short- and long-term outcomes of a low-tie ligation combined with no SFM in robotic low anterior resection (LAR) for mid- and low rectal cancer as a standardized technique. A retrospective observational single-cohort study was carried out at Reina Sofia University Hospital, Cordoba, Spain. 221 robotic rectal resections between Jul-18th-2018 and Jan-12th-2023 were initially considered. After case selection, 80 consecutive robotic LAR performed by a single surgeon were included. STROBE checklist assessed the methodological quality. Histopathological, morbidity and oncological outcomes were assessed. Anastomotic stricture occurrence and distance to anal verge were evaluated after LAR by rectosigmoidoscopy. Variables related to the ileostomy closure such as time to closure, post-operative complications or hospital stay were also considered. The majority of patients (81.2%) presented a mid-rectal cancer and the rest, lower location (18.8%). All patients had adequate perfusion of the anastomotic stump assessed by indocyanine green. Complete total mesorectal excision was performed in 98.8% of the patients with a lymph node ratio < 0.2 in 91.3%. The anastomotic leakage rate was 5%. One patient (1.5%) presented local recurrence. Anastomosis stricture occurred in 7.5% of the patients. The limitations were small cohort and retrospective design. The non-mobilization of the splenic flexure with a low-tie ligation in robotic LAR is a feasible and safe procedure that does not affect oncological outcomes.

Citation: Calleja R, et al. A comprehensive evaluation of 80 consecutive robotic low anterior resections: impact of not mobilizing the splenic flexure alongside low-tie vascular ligation as a standardized technique. A comprehensive evaluation of 80 consecutive robotic low anterior resections: impact of not mobilizing the splenic flexure alongside low-tie vascular ligation as a standardized technique. 2024; 18:156. doi: 10.1007/s11701-024-01917-7

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38565813/
