PMID: 38563147
Title: Endothelial PTP1B Deletion Promotes VWF Exocytosis and Venous Thromboinflammation.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Endothelial activation promotes the release of procoagulant extracellular vesicles and inflammatory mediators from specialized storage granules. Endothelial membrane exocytosis is controlled by phosphorylation. We hypothesized that the absence of PTP1B (protein tyrosine phosphatase 1B) in endothelial cells promotes venous thromboinflammation by triggering endothelial membrane fusion and exocytosis.
METHODS: Mice with inducible endothelial deletion of PTP1B (End.PTP1B-KO) underwent inferior vena cava ligation to induce stenosis and venous thrombosis. Primary endothelial cells from transgenic mice and human umbilical vein endothelial cells were used for mechanistic studies.
RESULTS: Vascular ultrasound and histology showed significantly larger venous thrombi containing higher numbers of Ly6G (lymphocyte antigen 6 family member G)-positive neutrophils in mice with endothelial PTP1B deletion, and intravital microscopy confirmed the more pronounced neutrophil recruitment following inferior vena cava ligation. RT2 PCR profiler array and immunocytochemistry analysis revealed increased endothelial activation and adhesion molecule expression in primary End.PTP1B-KO endothelial cells, including CD62P (P-selectin) and VWF (von Willebrand factor). Pretreatment with the NF-κB (nuclear factor kappa B) kinase inhibitor BAY11-7082, antibodies neutralizing CD162 (P-selectin glycoprotein ligand-1) or VWF, or arginylglycylaspartic acid integrin-blocking peptides abolished the neutrophil adhesion to End.PTP1B-KO endothelial cells in vitro. Circulating levels of annexin V+ procoagulant endothelial CD62E+ (E-selectin) and neutrophil (Ly6G+) extracellular vesicles were also elevated in End.PTP1B-KO mice after inferior vena cava ligation. Higher plasma MPO (myeloperoxidase) and Cit-H3 (citrullinated histone-3) levels and neutrophil elastase activity indicated neutrophil activation and extracellular trap formation. Infusion of End.PTP1B-KO extracellular vesicles into C57BL/6J wild-type mice most prominently enhanced the recruitment of endogenous neutrophils, and this response was blunted in VWF-deficient mice or by VWF-blocking antibodies. Reduced PTP1B binding and tyrosine dephosphorylation of SNAP23 (synaptosome-associated protein 23) resulting in increased VWF exocytosis and neutrophil adhesion were identified as mechanisms, all of which could be restored by NF-κB kinase inhibition using BAY11-7082.
CONCLUSIONS: Our findings show that endothelial PTP1B deletion promotes venous thromboinflammation by enhancing SNAP23 phosphorylation, endothelial VWF exocytosis, and neutrophil recruitment.

Citation: Zifkos K, et al. Endothelial PTP1B Deletion Promotes VWF Exocytosis and Venous Thromboinflammation. Endothelial PTP1B Deletion Promotes VWF Exocytosis and Venous Thromboinflammation. 2024; 134:e93-e111. doi: 10.1161/CIRCRESAHA.124.324214

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38563147/
