PMID: 38562068
Title: Thirty-day outcomes of carotid endarterectomy versus carotid artery stenting in asymptomatic and symptomatic patients: a propensity score-matched analysis.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Technological and surgical approaches to carotid artery stenting (CAS) have evolved. Modern randomised controlled trials comparing CAS and carotid endarterectomy (CEA) are limited, and information about updated post-intervention outcomes are mostly from retrospective, small studies.
AIMS: This study aims to compare the 30-day outcomes of stroke, transient ischaemic attack (TIA), acute myocardial infarction (AMI) and death with propensity-matched groups of CEA and CAS in asymptomatic and symptomatic patients over a recent study period of new CAS technologies and approaches.
METHODS: A retrospective, observational, multicentre analysis was conducted including consecutive symptomatic and asymptomatic patients treated with either primary CEA or CAS for internal carotid artery stenosis, between 2015 and 2022. Patients were propensity score-matched based on comorbidities and assessed according to symptom status. Primary endpoints include composite ipsilateral stroke, TIA, AMI and death within 30 days. Secondary endpoints include technical success and length of hospital stay.
RESULTS: From a cohort of 1,110 patients, propensity matching produced 269 distinct treatment pairs (n=538). Most patients were asymptomatic (n=456, 85%). All 6 strokes were minor (CEA=2; CAS=4) and registered among asymptomatic patients. One AMI (CEA) and 1 patient death (CAS) were reported among symptomatic patients. Composite stroke/AMI/death were not significantly different between both types of symptom status and both revascularisation techniques (p=0.44 and p=1, respectively). Technical success was 100%. The length of hospital stay was significantly shorter in asymptomatic patients treated with CAS compared to those treated with CEA (p=0.05), but no difference was registered among symptomatic patients (p=0.32).
CONCLUSIONS: Propensity-matched analysis suggests that CAS has similar postprocedural outcomes for stroke, AMI and death at 30 days compared to CEA.

Citation: Bramucci A, et al. Thirty-day outcomes of carotid endarterectomy versus carotid artery stenting in asymptomatic and symptomatic patients: a propensity score-matched analysis. Thirty-day outcomes of carotid endarterectomy versus carotid artery stenting in asymptomatic and symptomatic patients: a propensity score-matched analysis. 2024; 20:e445-e452. doi: 10.4244/EIJ-D-23-00624

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38562068/
