PMID: 38568240
Title: [Review of surgical treatment of suprastomal collapse in tracheostomised children].

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Suprastomal collapse (SSC) is considered a major late complication of paediatric tracheostomy and can be responsible for decannulation failure in up to 20% of tracheostomised children. Depending on the severity of SSC, surgery may be required. Various strategies and techniques are available, of which the treating with airway team should be aware.
OBJECTIVE: This article intends to summarise the aetiology of SSC, its classification, clinical presentation, and the gold standard diagnostic and therapeutic algorithms according to the current literature.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: A panel of experts reviewed the available literature on SSC. Published evidence on the different surgical techniques and their advantages and disadvantages was reviewed in detail, and a treatment algorithm created.
RESULTS: The gold standard diagnostic procedure for SSC is flexible transnasal laryngotracheoscopy in spontaneous breathing followed by microlaryngoscopy (MLS) under general anaesthesia. Two main types of SSC can be differentiated, which differ in terms of surgical treatment. Purely anterior SSC is usually treated by tracheoplasty using an anterior costal cartilage graft (ACCG). Simple closure of the tracheostomy or excision of SSC with a potassium-titanyl-phosphate (KTP) laser are also described as less invasive approaches. For anterolateral SSC, segmental tracheal resection with end-to-end anastomosis or tracheoplasty with ACCG represent promising treatment options. Tracheal reinforcement with absorbable microplates is also discussed in the literature. With both types of SSC and depending on severity and the age of the child, a watch-and-wait strategy should always be considered.
CONCLUSION: Dynamic airway endoscopy in spontaneous breathing followed by MLS in general anaesthesia should always be performed before decannulation. It is particularly important to visualise all segments of the airway during spontaneous breathing. The decision regarding the best surgical option for each child is based on the type and localisation of SSC, as well as on the patient's medical and surgical history and age.

Citation: Fiz I, et al. [Review of surgical treatment of suprastomal collapse in tracheostomised children]. [Review of surgical treatment of suprastomal collapse in tracheostomised children]. 2024; 72:765-771. doi: 10.1007/s00106-024-01448-5

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38568240/
