PMID: 38565982
Title: Transcatheter Aortic Valve Replacement and Coronary Protection Guided by Deep Learning and 3-Dimensional Printing.

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: In this case report, the auxiliary role of deep learning and 3-dimensional printing technology in the perioperative period was discussed to guide transcatheter aortic valve replacement and coronary stent implantation simultaneously.
CASE PRESENTATION: A 68-year-old man had shortness of breath and chest tightness, accompanied by paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea, 2 weeks before presenting at our hospital. Echocardiography results obtained in the outpatient department showed severe aortic stenosis combined with regurgitation and pleural effusion. The patient was first treated with closed thoracic drainage. After 800 mL of pleural effusion was collected, the patient's symptoms were relieved and he was admitted to the hospital. Preoperative transthoracic echocardiography showed severe bicuspid aortic valve stenosis combined with calcification and aortic regurgitation (mean pressure gradient, 42 mmHg). Preoperative computed tomography results showed a type I bicuspid aortic valve with severe eccentric calcification. The leaflet could be seen from the left coronary artery plane, which indicated an extremely high possibility of coronary obstruction. After preoperative imaging assessment, deep learning and 3-dimensional printing technology were used for evaluation and simulation. Guided transcatheter aortic valve replacement and a coronary stent implant were completed successfully. Postoperative digital subtraction angiography showed that the bioprosthesis and the chimney coronary stent were in ideal positions. Transesophageal echocardiography showed normal morphology without paravalvular regurgitation.
CONCLUSION: The perioperative guidance of deep learning and 3-dimensional printing are of great help for surgical strategy formulation in patients with severe bicuspid aortic valve stenosis with calcification and high-risk coronary obstruction.

Citation: Mao Y, et al. Transcatheter Aortic Valve Replacement and Coronary Protection Guided by Deep Learning and 3-Dimensional Printing. Transcatheter Aortic Valve Replacement and Coronary Protection Guided by Deep Learning and 3-Dimensional Printing. 2024; 31:256-262. doi: 10.1177/15533506241244571

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38565982/
