PMID: 38563314
Title: Comparative study of plaque surface temperature and blood heat transfer in a stenosed blood vessel with different symmetrical configurations.

Abstract: The presence of macrophage cells inside plaque can lead to a change in plaque temperature, which can be measured by using arterial wall thermographic techniques to predict the severity of stenosis in the vessel without complicated surgery. This study aims to analyze the effect of plaque symmetricity with a similar degree of stenosis (DOS) on plaque surface temperature and blood heat transfer in a straight vessel. This analysis aims towards predicting the severity of stenosis in a straight blood vessel through plaque temperature as an indicator. Two cases are being analyzed here; case 1 and case 2 refer to having similar vessel dimensions and an overall degree of stenosis (DOS) of 70%, with the exception of case 1 having a symmetrically developed plaque while case 2 refers to an asymmetrically developed plaque. Euler-Euler multiphase method with the application of the granular model is being applied in this study. At peak systole (0.2 s into the 10th cardiac cycle) in a cardiac cycle, the increase in plaque surface temperature at exit is higher in case of a symmetrically developed stenosis compared to an asymmetric one but the reverse situation happens during end systole (0.5 s into the 10th cardiac cycle). Although the population of macrophages in a plaque is a deciding factor of the thermal signature of a plaque, the symmetricity variation also needs to be taken into consideration while plaque progression is being diagnosed through thermographic technique.

Citation: Das SS and Mahapatra SK. Comparative study of plaque surface temperature and blood heat transfer in a stenosed blood vessel with different symmetrical configurations. Comparative study of plaque surface temperature and blood heat transfer in a stenosed blood vessel with different symmetrical configurations. 2024; (unknown volume):1-21. doi: 10.1080/10255842.2024.2330701

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38563314/
