PMID: 38578142
Title: Preoperative spinal education for lumbar spinal stenosis: A feasibility study.

Abstract: INTRODUCTION: Lumbar spinal stenosis (LSS) is a leading cause of chronic musculoskeletal pain among older adults. A common and costly intervention for the treatment of LSS is lumbar decompression with or without fusion (LSS surgery), which has mixed outcomes among patients. Prehabilitation is a strategy designed to optimize the consistency of positive surgical outcomes and promote patient self-efficacy, while attempting to mitigate postoperative complications. No efforts have investigated the prehabilitation strategies specifically for patients undergoing LSS surgery.
OBJECTIVE: To determine the feasibility of delivery and acceptability by participants of a novel prehabilitation intervention for patients undergoing LSS surgery.
DESIGN: Feasibility study.
SETTING: Outpatient orthopedic clinic at an academic medical center.
PARTICIPANTS: Patients at least 50 years of age, who were scheduled for LSS surgery between October 2020 and October 2021.
INTERVENTION: PreOperative Spinal Education for Lumbar Spinal Stenosis (POSE-LSS), is a novel multimodal, education-focused, time-efficient prehabilitation program for patients undergoing LSS surgery. Participants received the following: (1) Educational booklet and video; (2) In-person physical therapy (PT) session; and (3) Telemedicine visit with a physiatrist.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE(S): The primary outcomes of interest were feasibility and acceptability of intervention by participants. Key potential surgical outcomes were length of stay and discharge disposition.
RESULTS: POSE-LSS was completed by all eligible participants enrolled (n = 15) indicating feasibility and acceptability. Potential effectiveness measures including length of stay and discharge disposition were positively associated with the POSE-LSS intervention.
CONCLUSIONS: This study demonstrates that a novel prehabilitation intervention is feasible, acceptable, and appears positively associated with important short-term measures of postoperative recovery that may impact the trajectory of patient care following LSS surgery.

Citation: Eubanks JE, et al. Preoperative spinal education for lumbar spinal stenosis: A feasibility study. Preoperative spinal education for lumbar spinal stenosis: A feasibility study. 2024; 16:992-1000. doi: 10.1002/pmrj.13140

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38578142/
