PMID: 38571447
Title: Outpatient hysteroscopy: Suitable for all? A retrospective cohort study of safety, success and acceptability in Australia.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: In Australia, gynaecologists continue to assess and investigate abnormal uterine bleeding with inpatient hysteroscopy despite evidence validating outpatient hysteroscopy services.
AIM: This retrospective cohort study assessed the safety, success and acceptability of office hysteroscopy in a gynae-oncology rapid-access clinic over six years in Sydney, Australia, and included all women without an age or body mass index (BMI) cut-off using a 'see and treat' concept.
METHODS: A database was created and analysed retrospectively for patients who attended office hysteroscopy service between January 2016 and March 2021 (63 months, 481 eligible). An anonymous modified PAT-32 patient satisfaction questionnaire was also offered to an initial cohort after their procedure to gauge insightful feedback about acceptability.
RESULTS: A total of 92% of patients had successful outpatient hysteroscopic access; 24% of cases required hysteroscopy under general anaesthesia (GA) despite pathology in over 50% of cases; 68% of the total were able to be managed with outpatient hysteroscopy and did not require a follow-up GA hysteroscopy. This paper is also the first of its kind to our knowledge to incorporate patients >65 years, those with a BMI >35 and those with a history of cervical stenosis. This study suggests that age and BMI do not impact the success rate of the procedure.
CONCLUSION: This study demonstrates that outpatient hysteroscopy is an acceptable, safe procedure that is well tolerated by patients. Considering our rapid-access hysteroscopy service allowed 68% of the patient cohort to avoid hysteroscopy under GA, we estimate conservatively ~$63 million per year in Australia could be saved by performing office hysteroscopies.

Citation: Nash R and Saidi S. Outpatient hysteroscopy: Suitable for all? A retrospective cohort study of safety, success and acceptability in Australia. Outpatient hysteroscopy: Suitable for all? A retrospective cohort study of safety, success and acceptability in Australia. 2024; (unknown volume):(unknown pages). doi: 10.1111/ajo.13816

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38571447/
