PMID: 38579413
Title: Pathogenesis and management of low-pressure hydrocephalus: A narrative review.

Abstract: Patients diagnosed with low-pressure hydrocephalus typically present with enlarged ventricles and unusually low intracranial pressure, often measuring below 5 cmH<sub>2</sub>O or even below atmospheric pressure. This atypical presentation often leads to low recognition and diagnostic rates. The development of low-pressure hydrocephalus is believed to be associated with a decrease in the viscoelasticity of brain tissue or separation between the ventricular and subarachnoid spaces. Risk factors for low-pressure hydrocephalus include subarachnoid hemorrhage, aqueduct stenosis, prior cranial radiotherapy， ventricular shunting, and cerebrospinal fluid leaks. For potential low-pressure hydrocephalus, diagnostic criteria include neurological symptoms related to hydrocephalus, an Evans index &gt;0.3 on imaging, ICP ≤ 5 cm H<sub>2</sub>O, symptom improvement with negative pressure drainage, and exclusion of ventriculomegaly caused by neurodegenerative diseases. The pathogenesis and pathophysiological features of low-pressure hydrocephalus differ significantly from other types of hydrocephalus, making it challenging to restore normal ventricular morphology through conventional drainage methods. The primary treatment options for low-pressure hydrocephalus involve negative pressure drainage and third ventriculostomy. With appropriate treatment, most patients can regain their previous neurological function. However, in most cases, permanent shunt surgery is still necessary. Low-pressure hydrocephalus is a rare condition with a high rate of underdiagnosis and mortality. Early identification and appropriate intervention are crucial in reducing complications and improving prognosis.

Citation: Duan S and Hu J. Pathogenesis and management of low-pressure hydrocephalus: A narrative review. Pathogenesis and management of low-pressure hydrocephalus: A narrative review. 2024; 460:122988. doi: 10.1016/j.jns.2024.122988

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38579413/
