PMID: 38583496
Title: Carotid Artery Stenosis and Ischemic Stroke in Patients With Head and Neck Cancer Treated With Radiation Therapy: A Critical Review.

Abstract: The purpose of this review is to summarize the literature on carotid artery stenosis (CAS) and ischemic stroke (IS) in patients with head and neck cancer (HNC) treated with radiation therapy (RT) to guide assessment, screening, and management strategies. Patients treated with RT for HNC are at an elevated risk of developing CAS, with published meta-analyses demonstrating that CAS >50% occurs in approximately 25% of patients. Previous research suggests a 10-year cumulative incidence of stroke between 5.7% and 12.5%. Cardiovascular disease (CVD) risk prediction tools such as Qstroke, QRISK-2, and Framingham risk score perform poorly for predicting IS for patients with HNC who received RT. Duplex ultrasound is the most common imaging modality to assess CAS, but controversy remains as to the utility of screening asymptomatic individuals. Only 3 of the 5 major HNC survivorship guidelines acknowledge RT as a risk factor for CAS or IS, while only 1 makes a specific recommendation on screening for CAS (American Head and Neck Society). Within the general population, only 1 CVD guideline discusses RT as a risk factor for CAS (Society for Vascular Surgery). Clinicians involved in the care of patients with HNC treated with RT should be aware of the increased risk of CAS and IS and the challenges in risk prediction. Although there is a lack of evidence to make firm recommendations, HNC survivorship recommendations should ensure HNC survivors and primary care providers are informed of these risks and the importance of assessment and management of CVD risk factors. Future studies are required to refine risk prediction models in patients with HNC and to determine those most likely to benefit from targeted screening and initiation of early preventative strategies.

Citation: Smith J, et al. Carotid Artery Stenosis and Ischemic Stroke in Patients With Head and Neck Cancer Treated With Radiation Therapy: A Critical Review. Carotid Artery Stenosis and Ischemic Stroke in Patients With Head and Neck Cancer Treated With Radiation Therapy: A Critical Review. 2024; 119:1437-1454. doi: 10.1016/j.ijrobp.2024.03.044

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38583496/
