PMID: 38584380
Title: Pulmonary Artery Angioplasty for Improving Ipsilateral Lung Perfusion in Adolescent and Adult Patients: An Analysis Based on Cardiac Magnetic Resonance Imaging and Lung Perfusion Scanning.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: The left pulmonary artery (LPA) may be kinked and stenotic, especially in tetralogy of Fallot, because of ductal tissue and anterior deviation of the conal septum. If LPA stenosis is not effectively treated during total correction, surgical angioplasty is occasionally performed. However, whether pulmonary artery (PA) angioplasty in adolescents or adults improves perfusion in the ipsilateral lung remains unclear.
METHODS: This retrospective review enrolled patients who underwent PA angioplasty for LPA stenosis between 2004 and 2019. Among patients who underwent a lung perfusion scan (LPS) or cardiac magnetic resonance imaging (cMRI) pre- and post-pulmonary angioplasty, those aged >13 years with <40% left lung perfusion (p-left) in the pre-angioplasty study were included. Preoperative and postoperative computed tomography, LPS, and cMRI data were collected. The perfusion ratio was analyzed according to the LPA's anatomical characteristics.
RESULTS: Seventeen adolescents and 16 adults (≥18 years old) were finally included (median age, 17 years). The most common primary diagnosis was tetralogy of Fallot (87.9%). In all patients, LPA angioplasty was performed concomitantly with right ventricular outflow tract reconstruction. No patients died. Preoperative p-left was not significantly different between adolescents and adults; however, adolescents had significantly higher postoperative p-left than adults. P-left significantly increased in adolescents, but not in adults. Seven patients had significant stenosis (z-score <-2.0) confined only to the proximal LPA and demonstrated significantly increased p-left.
CONCLUSION: PA angioplasty significantly increased ipsilateral lung perfusion in adolescents. If focal stenosis is confined to the proximal LPA, PA angioplasty may improve ipsilateral lung perfusion, regardless of age.

Citation: Son DH, et al. Pulmonary Artery Angioplasty for Improving Ipsilateral Lung Perfusion in Adolescent and Adult Patients: An Analysis Based on Cardiac Magnetic Resonance Imaging and Lung Perfusion Scanning. Pulmonary Artery Angioplasty for Improving Ipsilateral Lung Perfusion in Adolescent and Adult Patients: An Analysis Based on Cardiac Magnetic Resonance Imaging and Lung Perfusion Scanning. 2024; 57:360-368. doi: 10.5090/jcs.23.158

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38584380/
