PMID: 38584287
Title: Acute gastric dilatation with segmented abdominal paresis as a rare manifestation of herpes zoster: a case report and review of the literature.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Herpes zoster is a common disease that can affect men and women at any age. Sensory neuropathy is the most common complication while motor neuropathy of the abdominal muscles is rare complication appearing in ~ 0.7% of patients. Furthermore, visceral nerve involvement causing gastroparesis is an extremely rare postherpetic complication. We present an extremely rare case of acute gastric dilatation with segmented abdominal paresis as a rare manifestation of herpes zoster infection.
CASE PRESENTATION: A 91-year-old Asian man was admitted to hospital with 2-day history of vomiting and left abdominal protrusion. He was previously treated for a rash on the left abdominal wall as herpes zoster infection with oral valaciclovir 2 weeks prior. On physical examination, characteristic herpes zoster rash scars and an ipsilateral abdominal bulge were observed on the left side. Computed tomography revealed no abdominal wall defect, mass, or stenosis. Remarkable distension of the stomach, asymmetrical left flank wall bulge, and a thinner abdominal wall on the left compared with the right side were shown. He was diagnosed as acute gastric dilatation owing to gastroparesis and segmental paresis of the abdominal musculature associated with herpes zoster infection. The patient showed significant improvement in symptoms and abdominal paresis within a month of conservative treatment, including nasogastric tube decompression and mosapride administration.
CONCLUSION: Acute gastric dilatation with abdominal paresis is an extremely rare complication of herpes zoster infection, and to date there have been no reports in the literature. It alerts us that, when examining patients with abdominal bulge, we should be conscious of this rare pathology for the optical diagnosis, avoiding unnecessary invasive examination or surgical exploration.

Citation: Yagyu T, et al. Acute gastric dilatation with segmented abdominal paresis as a rare manifestation of herpes zoster: a case report and review of the literature. Acute gastric dilatation with segmented abdominal paresis as a rare manifestation of herpes zoster: a case report and review of the literature. 2024; 18:165. doi: 10.1186/s13256-024-04487-2

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38584287/
