PMID: 38581935
Title: Percutaneous cement-augmented short-segment pedicle screw fixation plus percutaneous vertebroplasty for stage III Kummell's disease without neurological symptoms: A case report.

Abstract: INTRODUCTION: The incidence of stage III Kummell's disease without neurological symptoms is increasing in elderly patients with osteoporotic thoracolumbar fractures. However, the surgical method is still controversial in this condition. This report presented a case of Kummell's disease in which percutaneous bone cement-augmented short-segment pedicle screw fixation combined with percutaneous vertebroplasty was performed, providing a reference for the surgical approach.
CASE PRESENTATION: The patient was a 72-year-old female who presented unexplained lower back pain accompanied with limited mobility for the past three months. Based on her medical history, physical examinations, and imaging studies, it was confirmed that she had Kummell's disease in stage III without neurological symptoms. We treated her with percutaneous bone cement-augmented short-segment pedicle screw fixation combined with percutaneous vertebroplasty on the symptomatic vertebrae.
CLINICAL DISCUSSION: The majority of patients with stage III Kummell's disease have severe osteoporosis, which result in failure of the internal fixation and a series of other complications. Maintaining the stability of the internal fixation system is crucial, especially after screwing and subsequent locking. When augmented with bone cement, the grip and pull-out resistance of the percutaneous pedicle screws enhance greatly. Simultaneously, percutaneous vertebroplasty on the symptomatic vertebrae can immediately support the spine unit's stability mechanically and maintain the shape of the vertebrae after reduction.
CONCLUSIONS: The percutaneous bone cement-augmented short-segment pedicle screw fixation combined with percutaneous vertebroplasty on the symptomatic vertebrae is an effective treatment for stage III Kummell's disease without neurological symptoms. It can effectively restore the vertebral height, correct the kyphotic deformities, improve spinal canal stenosis, and achieve satisfactory short-term clinical outcomes.

Citation: Meng X, et al. Percutaneous cement-augmented short-segment pedicle screw fixation plus percutaneous vertebroplasty for stage III Kummell's disease without neurological symptoms: A case report. Percutaneous cement-augmented short-segment pedicle screw fixation plus percutaneous vertebroplasty for stage III Kummell's disease without neurological symptoms: A case report. 2024; 118:109440. doi: 10.1016/j.ijscr.2024.109440

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38581935/
