PMID: 38589550
Title: Identification of Circulating Inflammatory Proteins Associated with Calcific Aortic Valve Stenosis by Multiplex Analysis.

Abstract: Calcific aortic valve stenosis (CAVS) is characterized by increasing inflammation and progressive calcification in the aortic valve leaflets and is a major cause of death in the aging population. This study aimed to identify the inflammatory proteins involved in CAVS and provide potential therapeutic targets. We investigated the observational and causal associations of 92 inflammatory proteins, which were measured using affinity-based proteomic assays. Firstly, the case-control cohort identified differential proteins associated with the occurrence and progression of CAVS. Subsequently, we delved into exploring the causal impacts of these associated proteins through Mendelian randomization. This involved utilizing genetic instruments derived from cis-protein quantitative loci identified in genome-wide association studies, encompassing a cohort of over 400,000 individuals. Finally, we investigated the gene transcription and protein expression levels of inflammatory proteins by single-cell and immunohistochemistry analysis. Multivariate logistic regression and spearman's correlation analysis showed that five proteins showed a significant positive correlation with disease severity. Mendelian randomization showed that elevated levels of two proteins, namely, matrix metallopeptidase-1 (MMP1) and sirtuin 2 (SIRT2), were associated with an increased risk of CAVS. Immunohistochemistry and single-cell transcriptomes showed that expression levels of MMP1 and SIRT2 at the tissue and cell levels were significantly higher in calcified valves than in non-calcified control valves. These findings indicate that MMP1 and SIRT2 are causally related to CAVS and open up the possibility for identifying novel therapeutic targets.

Citation: Lin R, et al. Identification of Circulating Inflammatory Proteins Associated with Calcific Aortic Valve Stenosis by Multiplex Analysis. Identification of Circulating Inflammatory Proteins Associated with Calcific Aortic Valve Stenosis by Multiplex Analysis. 2024; 24:499-512. doi: 10.1007/s12012-024-09854-5

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38589550/
