PMID: 38584896
Title: Successful Chemotherapy Treatment for a Tricuspid Valvular Stenosis Patient due to Right Ventricular Lymphoma.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: This study presents a patient diagnosed with tricuspid valvular stenosis due to right ventricular lymphoma, who was treated successfully.
CASE PRESENTATION: A 66-year-old man with a history of worsening shortness of breath during activity for the last three weeks sought medical attention. The patient later experienced swelling in the extremities, fluid build-up around the lungs and abdominal fluid accumulation, with no reported chest pain, fever, or weight loss. An echocardiogram found a mass in the lateral wall near the tricuspid valve of the right ventricle, leading to moderate tricuspid stenosis. The cardiac magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) revealed a lumpy, poorly defined mass that invaded the heart muscle and displayed varied enhancement after contrast administration. Suspicion arose for a malignant tumour or metastatic lesion due to its features and contrast uptake capability. A percutaneous biopsy was carried out on the mass in the right ventricle to confirm the diagnosis. The pathology report indicated a diagnosis of non-Hodgkin's lymphoma. After being diagnosed, the patient underwent chemotherapy using the R-CHOP regimen. Over time the symptoms improved, and echocardiograms revealed a decrease in the size of the tumour. After undergoing six rounds of chemotherapy, a cardiac MRI four months later showed no signs of a tumour. After that, the patient resumed their regular activities.
CONCLUSION: Right ventricular tumours are mostly malignant lesions and often have an inferior prognosis. Early diagnosis with imaging techniques and myocardial biopsy is necessary to deliver life-saving treatment quickly.
LEARNING POINTS: Right ventricular tumours are mostly malignant lesions and often have an inferior prognosis.Early diagnosis with imaging techniques and myocardial biopsy is necessary to deliver life-saving treatment quickly.Right ventricular lymphoma is a sporadic tumour, but the prognosis is favourable if detected in time.

Citation: Van Chien D and Quy TQ. Successful Chemotherapy Treatment for a Tricuspid Valvular Stenosis Patient due to Right Ventricular Lymphoma. Successful Chemotherapy Treatment for a Tricuspid Valvular Stenosis Patient due to Right Ventricular Lymphoma. 2024; 11:004451. doi: 10.12890/2024_004451

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38584896/
