PMID: 38585421
Title: Ischemic stroke as the first clinical manifestation of an initially undiagnosed case of Takayasu arteritis in a young woman from Ethiopia: A case report.

Abstract: Takayasu arteritis (TAK) is a rare large-vessel vasculitis of unknown etiology that leads to arterial wall thickening, stenosis, and occlusion, which may complicate cerebrovascular ischemic events. Ischemic stroke is a potentially devastating complication of TAK at a young age, but the occurrence is still rarely reported in Ethiopia. Although it occurs late in the course of the condition, it may be the initial presentation and suggest an unfavorable prognosis. Herein, we address the case of a 25-year-old woman who presented to a university hospital while on follow-up after 2 years of stroke with deterioration in clinical symptoms, absent brachial artery pulses, and unrecordable blood pressure in both arms. At the time of admission in 2021, the contrast brain computed tomography scan revealed an ischemic infarction in the right middle cerebral artery territory. However, the etiology of the stroke could not be defined at that time due to ambiguity in the clinical picture and the inability of clinicians to incorporate TAK into the differential diagnosis, resulting in a delay in the early diagnosis of the case. Two years later, in 2023, she underwent computed tomography angiography and was diagnosed to have TAK based on American College of Rheumatology criteria, with Numano type IIb angiographic extent of disease, ischemic stroke, and stage II systemic hypertension. The patient was treated by a field of experts. This case highlights the need to consider TAK in the differential diagnosis of stroke in young patients in the absence of traditional risk factors; appropriate tests should be performed to confirm or rule out this diagnosis, and management should be modified accordingly.

Citation: Lamessa A, et al. Ischemic stroke as the first clinical manifestation of an initially undiagnosed case of Takayasu arteritis in a young woman from Ethiopia: A case report. Ischemic stroke as the first clinical manifestation of an initially undiagnosed case of Takayasu arteritis in a young woman from Ethiopia: A case report. 2024; 12:2050313X241241190. doi: 10.1177/2050313X241241190

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38585421/
