PMID: 38582717
Title: Palatal Morphology After Treatment of Children With Obstructive Sleep Apnoea Using the Modified Twin-Block Appliance.

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: To investigate changes in the upper maxillary palates of children with obstructive sleep apnoea (OSA) and mandibular retraction who were treated using modified twin-block appliances (MTBAs).
METHODS: Thirty-five OSA children (age: 6-12 years) with mandibular retraction were included as the experimental group and 35 children who were Angle's class I but without mandibular retraction were included as the control group. The experimental group was treated with MTBA. Plaster models were made before the treatment and at the end of the 6-month treatment period. Plaster models of the control group were made at inclusion and after 6 months. Some plaster models were excluded because of damage or their failure to exhibit sufficiently clear marks, which left 26 pairs each for the experimental and control groups. The gender and age of the experimental group were matched with those of the control group at the end of the treatment. Three-dimensional (3D) digital model information was gathered using the external oral scanning model, and the data were extracted and analysed statistically to clarify the morphologic improvement in the maxillopalatine in OSA children treated using MTBAs.
RESULTS: After the OSA children with mandibular retraction were treated with MTBAs, the maxillary intercusp width, intermolar width, anterior palate width, posterior palate width, and surface area and volume of the maxillary palate significantly increased (*P < .05). By contrast, the anterior palatal height-apex level (H3) significantly decreased (*P < .05).
CONCLUSIONS: Compared with the control group, the narrow maxillary arch and basal bone were significantly enlarged after the OSA children with mandibular retraction were treated using MTBAs. The palatal surface area and volume increased, thereby allowing more space for accommodating the tongue and relieving transverse dissonance of the dentition.

Citation: Duan J, et al. Palatal Morphology After Treatment of Children With Obstructive Sleep Apnoea Using the Modified Twin-Block Appliance. Palatal Morphology After Treatment of Children With Obstructive Sleep Apnoea Using the Modified Twin-Block Appliance. 2024; 74:1120-1128. doi: 10.1016/j.identj.2024.03.007

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38582717/
