PMID: 38592280
Title: A Non-Coronary, Peripheral Arterial Atherosclerotic Disease (Carotid, Renal, Lower Limb) in Elderly Patients-A Review: Part I-Epidemiology, Risk Factors, and Atherosclerosis-Related Diversities in Elderly Patients.

Abstract: Atherosclerosis is a generalized and progressive disease. Ageing is a key risk factor for atherosclerosis progression that is associated with the increased incidence of ischemic events in supplied organs, including stroke, coronary events, limb ischemia, or renal failure. Cardiovascular disease is the leading cause of death and major disability in adults ≥ 75 years of age. Atherosclerotic occlusive disease affects everyday activity and quality of life, and it is associated with reduced life expectancy. Although there is evidence on coronary artery disease management in the elderly, there is insufficient data on the management in older patients presented with atherosclerotic lesions outside the coronary territory. Despite this, trials and observational studies systematically exclude older patients, particularly those with severe comorbidities, physical or cognitive dysfunctions, frailty, or residence in a nursing home. This results in serious critical gaps in knowledge and a lack of guidance on the appropriate medical treatment and referral for endovascular or surgical interventions. Therefore, we attempted to gather data on the prevalence, risk factors, and management strategies in patients with extra-coronary atherosclerotic lesions.

Citation: Piechocki M, et al. A Non-Coronary, Peripheral Arterial Atherosclerotic Disease (Carotid, Renal, Lower Limb) in Elderly Patients-A Review: Part I-Epidemiology, Risk Factors, and Atherosclerosis-Related Diversities in Elderly Patients. A Non-Coronary, Peripheral Arterial Atherosclerotic Disease (Carotid, Renal, Lower Limb) in Elderly Patients-A Review: Part I-Epidemiology, Risk Factors, and Atherosclerosis-Related Diversities in Elderly Patients. 2024; 13:(unknown pages). doi: 10.3390/jcm13051471

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38592280/
