PMID: 38592022
Title: A Short Fully Covered Self-Expandable Metal Stent for Management of Benign Biliary Stricture Not Caused by Living-Donor Liver Transplantation.

Abstract: Background: This study evaluated the effectiveness of short fully covered self-expanding metal stents (FCSEMS) with an anti-migration design in treating benign biliary strictures (BBS) not related to living donor liver transplantation (LDLT). Methods: A retrospective analysis was conducted on 75 patients who underwent FCSEMS insertion for BBS management. Stents were initially kept for 3 months and exchanged every 3 months until stricture resolution. Adverse events and stricture recurrence after FCSEMS removal were assessed during follow-up. Results: The study outcomes were technical success, stenosis resolution, and treatment failure. Technical success was 100%, with stricture resolution in 99% of patients. The mean onset time of BBS post-surgery was 4.4 years, with an average stent indwelling period of 5.5 months. Stricture recurrence occurred in 20% of patients, mostly approximately 18.8 months after stent removal. Early cholangitis and stent migration were noted in 3% and 4% of patients, respectively. Conclusions: This study concludes that short FCSEMS demonstrate high efficacy in the treatment of non-LDLT-related BBS, with a low incidence of interventions and complications. Although this is a single-center, retrospective study with a limited sample size, the findings provide preliminary evidence supporting the use of short FCSEMS as a primary treatment modality for BBS. To substantiate these findings, further research involving multicenter studies is recommended to provide additional validation and a broader perspective.

Citation: Lee SY, et al. A Short Fully Covered Self-Expandable Metal Stent for Management of Benign Biliary Stricture Not Caused by Living-Donor Liver Transplantation. A Short Fully Covered Self-Expandable Metal Stent for Management of Benign Biliary Stricture Not Caused by Living-Donor Liver Transplantation. 2024; 13:(unknown pages). doi: 10.3390/jcm13051186

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38592022/
