PMID: 38598308
Title: Observation of efficacy of rt-PA thrombolysis combined with Solitaire AB stent mechanical thrombectomy in patients with acute ischemic stroke: a retrospective analysis.

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: To observe and analyze the efficacy of recombinant tissue-plasminogen activator (rt-PA) thrombolysis combined with Solitaire AB stent mechanical thrombectomy in patients with acute ischemic stroke.
METHODS: Clinical efficacy, neurological function, oxidative stress response, adverse reactions, and quality of life were compared between the two groups.
RESULTS: Lower NIHSS scores were observed among patients who received treatment within 2 h after stroke onset when compared with those in a timeframe of 2-6 h, suggesting better neurological function recovery of the patients with early intervention and thus emphasizing the importance of early treatment for patients with stroke onset. Clinical efficacy in the combination group was significantly higher than in the control group (p &lt; 0.05). After treatment, Paraoxonase-1 (PON-1) levels were higher, while lipoprotein-associated phospholipase A2 (Lp-PLA2) and Serum Amyloid A (SAA) levels were lower in the combination group compared to the control group (p &lt; 0.05). The incidence of adverse reactions was significantly lower in the combination group (p &lt; 0.05). At discharge, we observed significantly more patients with good recovery in the combination group when compared to the control group (p &lt; 0.05), suggesting better quality of life of the patients, while this statistical significance was no longer observable at 90 days after discharge (p &gt; 0.05).
CONCLUSION: For acute ischemic stroke patients, rt-PA thrombolysis combined with Solitaire AB stent mechanical thrombectomy treatment is effective. It promotes neurological function recovery, improves vascular stenosis, reduces inflammation and adverse reactions, and enhances quality of life, showing promising clinical applications.

Citation: Liu Y, et al. Observation of efficacy of rt-PA thrombolysis combined with Solitaire AB stent mechanical thrombectomy in patients with acute ischemic stroke: a retrospective analysis. Observation of efficacy of rt-PA thrombolysis combined with Solitaire AB stent mechanical thrombectomy in patients with acute ischemic stroke: a retrospective analysis. 2024; (unknown volume):1-9. doi: 10.1080/00207454.2024.2341911

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38598308/
