PMID: 38599937
Title: Immune checkpoints in autoimmune vasculitis.

Abstract: Giant cell arteritis (GCA) is a prototypic autoimmune disease with a highly selective tissue tropism for medium and large arteries. Extravascular GCA manifests with intense systemic inflammation and polymyalgia rheumatica; vascular GCA results in vessel wall damage and stenosis, causing tissue ischemia. Typical granulomatous infiltrates in affected arteries are composed of CD4+ T cells and hyperactivated macrophages, signifying the involvement of the innate and adaptive immune system. Lesional CD4+ T cells undergo antigen-dependent clonal expansion, but antigen-nonspecific pathways ultimately control the intensity and duration of pathogenic immunity. Patient-derived CD4+ T cells receive strong co-stimulatory signals through the NOTCH1 receptor and the CD28/CD80-CD86 pathway. In parallel, co-inhibitory signals, designed to dampen overshooting T cell immunity, are defective, leaving CD4+ T cells unopposed and capable of supporting long-lasting and inappropriate immune responses. Based on recent data, two inhibitory checkpoints are defective in GCA: the Programmed death-1 (PD-1)/Programmed cell death ligand 1 (PD-L1) checkpoint and the CD96/CD155 checkpoint, giving rise to the "lost inhibition concept". Subcellular and molecular analysis has demonstrated trapping of the checkpoint ligands in the endoplasmic reticulum, creating PD-L1low CD155low antigen-presenting cells. Uninhibited CD4+ T cells expand, release copious amounts of the cytokine Interleukin (IL)-9, and differentiate into long-lived effector memory cells. These data place GCA and cancer on opposite ends of the co-inhibition spectrum, with cancer patients developing immune paralysis due to excessive inhibitory checkpoints and GCA patients developing autoimmunity due to nonfunctional inhibitory checkpoints.

Citation: Sato Y, et al. Immune checkpoints in autoimmune vasculitis. Immune checkpoints in autoimmune vasculitis. 2024; 38:101943. doi: 10.1016/j.berh.2024.101943

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38599937/
