PMID: 38592335
Title: The Diagnostic Accuracy of Transcranial Color-Coded Doppler Ultrasound Technique in Stratifying Intracranial Cerebral Artery Stenoses in Cerebrovascular Disease Patients: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis.

Abstract: The early and accurate stratification of intracranial cerebral artery stenosis (ICAS) is critical to inform treatment management and enhance the prognostic outcomes in patients with cerebrovascular disease (CVD). Digital subtraction angiography (DSA) is an invasive and expensive procedure but is the gold standard for the diagnosis of ICAS. Over recent years, transcranial color-coded Doppler ultrasound (TCCD) has been suggested to be a useful imaging method for accurately diagnosing ICAS. However, the diagnostic accuracy of TCCD in stratifying ICASs among patients with CVD remains unclear. Therefore, this systematic review and meta-analysis aimed at evaluating the diagnostic accuracy of TCCD in the stratification of intracranial steno-occlusions among CVD patients. A total of six databases-Embase, CINAHL, Medline, PubMed, Google Scholar, and Web of Science (core collection)-were searched for studies that assessed the diagnostic accuracy of TCCD in stratifying ICASs. The meta-analysis was performed using Meta-DiSc 1.4. The Quality Assessment of Diagnostic Accuracy Studies tool version 2 (QUADAS-2) assessed the risk of bias. Eighteen studies met all of the eligibility criteria. TCCD exhibited a high pooled diagnostic accuracy in stratifying intracranial steno-occlusions in patients presenting with CVD when compared to DSA as a reference standard (sensitivity = 90%; specificity = 87%; AUC = 97%). Additionally, the ultrasound parameters peak systolic velocity (PSV) and mean flow velocity (MFV) yielded a comparable diagnostic accuracy of "AUC = 0.96". In conclusion, TCCD could be a noble, safe, and accurate alternative imaging technique to DSA that can provide useful diagnostic information in stratifying intracranial steno-occlusions in patients presenting with CVD. TCCD should be considered in clinical cases where access to DSA is limited.

Citation: Gunda ST, et al. The Diagnostic Accuracy of Transcranial Color-Coded Doppler Ultrasound Technique in Stratifying Intracranial Cerebral Artery Stenoses in Cerebrovascular Disease Patients: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis. The Diagnostic Accuracy of Transcranial Color-Coded Doppler Ultrasound Technique in Stratifying Intracranial Cerebral Artery Stenoses in Cerebrovascular Disease Patients: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis. 2024; 13:(unknown pages). doi: 10.3390/jcm13051507

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38592335/
