PMID: 38590071
Title: Challenges in the use of Venous Sinus Stenting in the Treatment of Idiopathic Intracranial Hypertension and Pulsatile Tinnitus.

Abstract: Although numerous case series and meta-analyses have shown the efficacy of venous sinus stenting (VSS) in the treatment of idiopathic intracranial hypertension and idiopathic intracranial hypertension-associated pulsatile tinnitus, there remain numerous challenges to be resolved. There is no widespread agreement on candidacy; pressure gradient and failed medical treatment are common indications, but not all clinicians require medical refractoriness as a criterion. Venous manometry, venography, and cerebral angiography are essential tools for patient assessment, but again disagreements exist regarding the best, or most appropriate, diagnostic imaging choice. Challenges with the VSS technique also exist, such as stent choice and deployment. There are considerations regarding postprocedural balloon angioplasty and pharmacologic treatment, but there is insufficient evidence to formalize postoperative decision making. Although complications of VSS are relatively rare, they include in-stent stenosis, hemorrhage, and subdural hematoma, and the learning curve for VSS presents specific challenges in navigating venous anatomy, emphasizing the need for wider availability of high-quality training. Recurrence of symptoms, particularly stent-adjacent stenosis, poses challenges, and although restenting and cerebrospinal fluid-diverting procedures are options, there is a need for clearer criteria for retreatment strategies. Despite these challenges, when comparing VSS with traditional cerebrospinal fluid-diverting procedures, VSS emerges as a favorable option, with strong clinical outcomes, lower complication rates, and cost-effectiveness. Further research is necessary to refine techniques and indications and address specific aspects of VSS to overcome these challenges.

Citation: Pandey A, et al. Challenges in the use of Venous Sinus Stenting in the Treatment of Idiopathic Intracranial Hypertension and Pulsatile Tinnitus. Challenges in the use of Venous Sinus Stenting in the Treatment of Idiopathic Intracranial Hypertension and Pulsatile Tinnitus. 2024; 184:372-386. doi: 10.1016/j.wneu.2023.12.164

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38590071/
