PMID: 38592348
Title: A Non-Coronary, Peripheral Arterial Atherosclerotic Disease (Carotid, Renal, Lower Limb) in Elderly Patients-A Review PART II-Pharmacological Approach for Management of Elderly Patients with Peripheral Atherosclerotic Lesions outside Coronary Territory.

Abstract: Aging is a key risk factor for atherosclerosis progression that is associated with increased incidence of ischemic events in supplied organs, including stroke, coronary events, limb ischemia, or renal failure. Cardiovascular disease is the leading cause of death and major disability in adults ≥ 75 years of age. Atherosclerotic occlusive disease affects everyday activity, quality of life, and it is associated with reduced life expectancy. As most multicenter randomized trials exclude elderly and very elderly patients, particularly those with severe comorbidities, physical or cognitive dysfunctions, frailty, or residence in a nursing home, there is insufficient data on the management of older patients presenting with atherosclerotic lesions outside coronary territory. This results in serious critical gaps in knowledge and a lack of guidance on the appropriate medical treatment. In addition, due to a variety of severe comorbidities in the elderly, the average daily number of pills taken by octogenarians exceeds nine. Polypharmacy frequently results in drug therapy problems related to interactions, drug toxicity, falls with injury, delirium, and non-adherence. Therefore, we have attempted to gather data on the medical treatment in patients with extra-cardiac atherosclerotic lesions indicating where there is some evidence of the management in elderly patients and where there are gaps in evidence-based medicine. Public PubMed databases were searched to review existing evidence on the effectiveness of lipid-lowering, antithrombotic, and new glucose-lowering medications in patients with extra-cardiac atherosclerotic occlusive disease.

Citation: Piechocki M, et al. A Non-Coronary, Peripheral Arterial Atherosclerotic Disease (Carotid, Renal, Lower Limb) in Elderly Patients-A Review PART II-Pharmacological Approach for Management of Elderly Patients with Peripheral Atherosclerotic Lesions outside Coronary Territory. A Non-Coronary, Peripheral Arterial Atherosclerotic Disease (Carotid, Renal, Lower Limb) in Elderly Patients-A Review PART II-Pharmacological Approach for Management of Elderly Patients with Peripheral Atherosclerotic Lesions outside Coronary Territory. 2024; 13:(unknown pages). doi: 10.3390/jcm13051508

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38592348/
