PMID: 38596109
Title: Modified whitehead hemorrhoidectomy versus partial hemorrhoidectomy for fourth-degree circular mixed hemorrhoids: A retrospective analysis.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Grade IV circular hemorrhoids are difficult to treat. We aim to describe the modified whitehead hemorrhoidectomy procedure and to assess the effectiveness and safety of this procedure for grade IV circular hemorrhoid patients.
METHODS: Patients with grade Ⅳ circular hemorrhoids who underwent modified Whitehead hemorrhoidectomy and partial hemorrhoidectomy for fourth-degree circular mixed hemorrhoids were retrospectively reviewed. Clinical data were extracted from the database at our institution, and long-term postoperative complications were assessed through repeated outpatient examinations and telephonic communication.
RESULTS: A total of 205 patients were included in this study. The mean operative time was 59.2 ± 13.8 min. The average hospital stay was 4.6 ± 1.0 days. For postoperative complications, 66 (32.2%) patients had urinary retention, 10 (4.9%) patients had a sense of incomplete rectal emptying, 5 (2.4%) patients had anal incontinence, and 6 (2.9%) patients had wound infection. For long-term postoperative complications, 3 (1.5%) patients experienced mild to moderate anal stricture, 2 (1%) patients experienced mucosal ectropion, they all had smooth recoveries, and none of them needed secondary surgery. None of these patients had a hemorrhoid recurrence. A total of 205 patients who received modified Whitehead hemorrhoidectomy and 161 who received partial hemorrhoidectomy were included. There were no residual hemorrhoids in patients who received modified Whitehead hemorrhoidectomy, and none had hemorrhoid recurrence. Fifty-eight patients who received partial hemorrhoidectomy had hemorrhoidal residues, and 19 patients experienced hemorrhoid recurrence. After modified Whitehead hemorrhoidectomy, 3 patients developed anal stenosis, and 2 had mucosal ectropion. Four patients developed anal stricture after partial hemorrhoidectomy, and none had mucosal ectropion. They all had smooth recoveries, and none of them needed a secondary surgery. For the mean duration of surgery, postoperative bleeding, postoperative pain, wound infection, sense of incomplete rectal emptying, anal incontinence, and urinary retention, no statistically significant differences were found between the two groups.
CONCLUSIONS: Compared with partial hemorrhoidectomy, modified whitehead hemorrhoidectomy is an effective and safe surgical procedure and does not significantly increase the risk of anal stenosis and mucosal ectropion for grade IV circular hemorrhoid patients. Prospective randomized controlled trials are needed to verify our results.

Citation: Liu X, et al. Modified whitehead hemorrhoidectomy versus partial hemorrhoidectomy for fourth-degree circular mixed hemorrhoids: A retrospective analysis. Modified whitehead hemorrhoidectomy versus partial hemorrhoidectomy for fourth-degree circular mixed hemorrhoids: A retrospective analysis. 2024; 10:e28465. doi: 10.1016/j.heliyon.2024.e28465

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38596109/
