PMID: 38594893
Title: Closure of the neuro-central synchondrosis and other physes in foal cervical spines.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: The neuro-central synchondrosis (NCS) is a physis responsible for the growth of the dorsal third of the vertebral body and neural arches. When the NCS of pigs is tethered to model scoliosis, stenosis also ensues. It is necessary to describe the NCS for future evaluation of its potential role in equine spinal cord compression and ataxia (wobbler syndrome).
OBJECTIVES: To describe the NCS, including when it and other physes closed in computed tomographic (CT) scans of the cervical spine of foals, due to its potential role in vertebral stenosis.
STUDY DESIGN: Post-mortem cohort study.
METHODS: The cervical spine of 35 cases, comprising both sexes and miscellaneous breeds from 153 gestational days to 438 days old, was examined with CT and physes scored from 6: fully open to 0: fully closed. The dorsal physis, physis of the dens and mid-NCS were scored separately, whereas the cranial and caudal NCS portions were scored together with the respective cranial and caudal vertebral body physes.
RESULTS: The NCS was a pair of thin physes located in a predominantly dorsal plane between the vertebral body and neural arches. The mid-NCS was closed in C1 from 115 days of age, and in C2-C7 from 38 days of age. The dorsal physis closed later than the NCS in C1, and earlier than the NCS in C2-C7. The dens physis was closed from 227 days of age. The cranial and caudal physes were closing, but not closed from different ages in the different vertebrae of the oldest cases.
MAIN LIMITATIONS: Hospital population.
CONCLUSIONS: The NCS was a thin physis that contributed mainly to height-wise growth, but also width- and length-wise growth of the vertebral body and neural arches. The mid-NCS was closed in all cervical vertebrae from 115 days of age. The NCS warrants further investigation in the pathogenesis of vertebral stenosis.

Citation: Olstad K, et al. Closure of the neuro-central synchondrosis and other physes in foal cervical spines. Closure of the neuro-central synchondrosis and other physes in foal cervical spines. 2024; (unknown volume):(unknown pages). doi: 10.1111/evj.14093

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38594893/
