PMID: 38598829
Title: Brazilian portuguese validation of the patient-reported outcome measure for urethral stricture surgery (USS-PROM) questionnaire.

Abstract: INTRODUCTION: Urethral stricture is a common, albeit complex, condition that predominantly affects men. The aim of this study was to translate, culturally adapt, and validate the Patient-Reported Outcome Measure questionnaire for patients undergoing urethroplasty (USS-PROM) into Brazilian Portuguese using validated psychometric criteria.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: The process involved translating and culturally adapting the original USS-PROM into Brazilian Portuguese (USS-PROMbr), synthesizing, back-translating, cross-culturally adapting, and analyzing the pre-final version with experts from our committee. This pre-version was administered to 10 patients who had undergone urethroplasty by the Reconstructive Urology team at the Hospital de Clínicas de Porto Alegre for face validation, linguistic, and semantic adjustments, resulting in the final USS-PROMbr version. Subsequently, well-established psychometric criteria, including content validity, internal consistency, and test-retest reproducibility, were assessed after administering the questionnaire to a total of 56 patients, with 50 of them responding to the test and retest.
RESULTS: Evaluation of the pre-final version identified 15 questions as clear, and only one question was considered somewhat unclear necessitating modifications based on patient suggestions and subsequent reassessment by the research team. Psychometric criteria demonstrated good content validity, with a content validity index exceeding 0.80 for all questions; good internal consistency, Cronbach's alpha of 0.77, ranging from 0.70 to 0.78 with the exclusion of any item, and item-total correlations ranging from 0.33 to 0.67. The test-retest intraclass correlation coefficient was 0.74 for the lower urinary tract symptoms construct (Q1-Q6).
CONCLUSION: The USS-PROMbr demonstrated acceptable cross-cultural adaptation and psychometric properties, making it a valid and useful tool for evaluating patients undergoing urethroplasty.

Citation: Jorge KB, et al. Brazilian portuguese validation of the patient-reported outcome measure for urethral stricture surgery (USS-PROM) questionnaire. Brazilian portuguese validation of the patient-reported outcome measure for urethral stricture surgery (USS-PROM) questionnaire. 2024; 50:261-276. doi: 10.1590/S1677-5538.IBJU.2023.0602

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38598829/
