PMID: 38592382
Title: See It Best: A Propensity-Matched Analysis of Ultrasound-Guided versus Blind Femoral Artery Puncture in Balloon-Expandable TAVI.

Abstract: Background: Currently, transcatheter aortic valve implantation (TAVI) is the standard procedure recommended for patients over 75 years of age with symptomatic aortic valve stenosis. Percutaneous transfemoral (TF) access is the main route used to perform the procedure. Among periprocedural complications, access-related ones are the most frequent, potentially leading to prolonged in-hospital stays and transfusions. Methods: We performed a retrospective analysis of prospectively collected data on consecutive patients undergoing TF-TAVI with the latest generation balloon-expandable transcatheter valve between 2013 and 2022. Results: A total of 600 patients were analyzed, differentiating the population between ultrasound-guided and blind common femoral artery puncture. Valve Academic Research Consortium 3 (VARC-3)criteria were used to report at 30 days and follow-up. In our propensity-matched comparison of the two groups, we found a strong reduction in access-related complications in the echo-guided group, particularly in terms of reduction of major and minor bleedings. We also found a significant trend in reduction of local complications, such as pseudoaneurysms, hematomas, arterio-venous fistulas, dissection of the femoral or iliac arteries, and stenosis. Conclusions: Although there is a lack of consensus on the role of ultrasound-guided puncture, we found better outcomes for patients having an echo-guided puncture of the main access, particularly with regard to access-related complications, early mobilization, and early discharge home.

Citation: Gennari M, et al. See It Best: A Propensity-Matched Analysis of Ultrasound-Guided versus Blind Femoral Artery Puncture in Balloon-Expandable TAVI. See It Best: A Propensity-Matched Analysis of Ultrasound-Guided versus Blind Femoral Artery Puncture in Balloon-Expandable TAVI. 2024; 13:(unknown pages). doi: 10.3390/jcm13051514

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38592382/
