PMID: 38599810
Title: [Diffuse thickening of bronchial walls with multiple nodular mucosal protrusions].

Abstract: A 58-year-old woman presented with a six-month history of nasal congestion, sore throat and cough, and a five-month history of dyspnea. She had a history of xerostomia for one year. On examination, the bilateral submandibular gland and parotid glands were enlarged. Parotid and anterior cervical lymph nodes were palpable. There were rales in both lungs. The rest of the physical examination was unremarkable. Sialographic analysis showed normal caliber in the main duct, stenosis in secondary ducts, and dilation in the proximal ducts. Minor salivary gland biopsy demonstrated periductal lymphocytic infiltration. Chest computed tomography (CT) showed diffuse thickening of the tracheal and bilateral bronchial walls. Bronchoscopy revealed macroscopic multiple nodules mainly in the trachea and bilateral main bronchus. Endobronchial biopsy showed lymphocytic infiltration in the bronchial submucosa. She was diagnosed with Sjögren's syndrome and treated with glucocorticoids. The dose of prednisone was started at 30 mg/d and tapered gradually. Following treatment, the patient's clinical condition improved dramatically, with shrinkage of the enlarged lymph nodes, bilateral submandibular and parotid glands. A repeated chest CT scan revealed improvement of the tracheal and bilateral bronchial thickening. Multiple nodules in the airway regressed, as evidenced by repeated bronchoscopic examination. The final diagnosis was a large-airway disease associated with Sjögren's syndrome.Among airway diseases in Sjögren's syndrome, peripheral airway diseases including bronchiolitis and bronchiectasis are common; however, central airway lesions in Sjögren's syndrome, especially with macroscopic nodules, are rare. In this case, we demonstrated tracheal and endobronchial nodules in Sjögren's syndrome as determined by clinical features, CT scan, bronchoscopy, and response to therapy.

Citation: Zhu WY, et al. [Diffuse thickening of bronchial walls with multiple nodular mucosal protrusions]. [Diffuse thickening of bronchial walls with multiple nodular mucosal protrusions]. 2024; 47:346-351. doi: 10.3760/cma.j.cn112147-20230913-00156

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38599810/
