PMID: 38594643
Title: Risk factors of internal carotid artery stenosis in patients with proliferative diabetic retinopathy: an analysis using optical coherence tomography and optical coherence tomography angiography.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: This research investigates the correlation between the severity of internal carotid artery (ICA) stenosis and retinal parameters in patients with proliferative diabetic retinopathy (PDR), aiming to uncover potential risk factors.
METHODS: A retrospective analysis of 68 patients (136 eyes) diagnosed with bilateral PDR from January 1, 2017, to December 31, 2021, was conducted. Carotid artery stenosis (CAS) was assessed using neck computed tomography angiography (CTA) and carotid duplex ultrasound (CDUS), with stenosis classified into two groups: normal (group 1) and mild or above (group 2), based on the North American Symptomatic Carotid Endarterectomy Trial (NASCET) criteria. Optical coherence tomography (OCT) and OCT angiography (OCTA) measured several retinal parameters, including sub foveal choroidal thickness (SFCT), retinal nerve fiber layer (RNFL) thickness, ganglion cell-inner plexiform layer (GCIPL) thickness, vessel density (VD), and foveal avascular zone (FAZ) area. Statistical analyses determined correlations between ICA degrees and retinal parameters.
RESULTS: This study showed significant differences between groups in total VD, FAZ area, total RNFL thickness, and temporal RNFL thickness, indicating that patients with more severe ICA stenosis had noticeable retinal changes. Other parameters such as hyperlipidemia, total cholesterol levels, and intraocular pressure (IOP) also differed significantly, while no notable differences were observed in SFCT, central VD, average GCIPL, and superior, nasal, and inferior RNFL thickness.
CONCLUSION: The study findings highlight retinal changes, such as an increased FAZ area, decreased total VD, and a total and thinner temporal RNFL, which suggest the need for carotid artery evaluation in patients. These findings have important clinical implications for the need for carotid work up in patients with PDR.

Citation: Lee CY, et al. Risk factors of internal carotid artery stenosis in patients with proliferative diabetic retinopathy: an analysis using optical coherence tomography and optical coherence tomography angiography. Risk factors of internal carotid artery stenosis in patients with proliferative diabetic retinopathy: an analysis using optical coherence tomography and optical coherence tomography angiography. 2024; 24:156. doi: 10.1186/s12886-024-03391-z

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38594643/
