PMID: 38607554
Title: Digital twins for cardiac electrophysiology: state of the art and future challenges.

Abstract: Cardiac arrhythmias remain a major cause of death and disability. Current antiarrhythmic therapies are effective to only a limited extent, likely in large part due to their mechanism-independent approach. Precision cardiology aims to deliver targeted therapy for an individual patient to maximize efficacy and minimize adverse effects. In-silico digital twins have emerged as a promising strategy to realize the vision of precision cardiology. While there is no uniform definition of a digital twin, it typically employs digital tools, including simulations of mechanistic computer models, based on patient-specific clinical data to understand arrhythmia mechanisms and/or make clinically relevant predictions. Digital twins have become part of routine clinical practice in the setting of interventional cardiology, where commercially available services use digital twins to non-invasively determine the severity of stenosis (computed tomography-based fractional flow reserve). Although routine clinical application has not been achieved for cardiac arrhythmia management, significant progress towards digital twins for cardiac electrophysiology has been made in recent years. At the same time, significant technical and clinical challenges remain. This article provides a short overview of the history of digital twins for cardiac electrophysiology, including recent applications for the prediction of sudden cardiac death risk and the tailoring of rhythm control in atrial fibrillation. The authors highlight the current challenges for routine clinical application and discuss how overcoming these challenges may allow digital twins to enable a significant precision medicine-based advancement in cardiac arrhythmia management.

Citation: Cluitmans MJM, et al. Digital twins for cardiac electrophysiology: state of the art and future challenges. Digital twins for cardiac electrophysiology: state of the art and future challenges. 2024; 35:118-123. doi: 10.1007/s00399-024-01014-0

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38607554/
