PMID: 38604346
Title: Turbo spin-echo-based enhanced acceleration-selective arterial spin labeling without electrocardiography or peripheral pulse unit triggering and contrast enhancement for lower extremity MRA.

Abstract: PURPOSE: Lower extremity magnetic resonance angiography (MRA) without electrocardiography (ECG) or peripheral pulse unit (PPU) triggering and contrast enhancement is beneficial for diagnosing peripheral arterial disease (PAD) while avoiding synchronization failure and nephrogenic systemic fibrosis. This study aimed to compare the diagnostic performance of turbo spin-echo-based enhanced acceleration-selective arterial spin labeling (eAccASL) (TSE-Acc) of the lower extremities with that of turbo field-echo-based eAccASL (TFE-Acc) and triggered angiography non-contrast enhanced (TRANCE).
METHODS: Nine healthy volunteers and a patient with PAD were examined on a 3.0 Tesla magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) system. The artery-to-muscle signal intensity ratio (SIR) and contrast-to-noise ratio (CNR) were calculated. The arterial visibility (1: poor, 4: excellent) and artifact contamination (1: severe, 4: no) were independently assessed by two radiologists. Phase-contrast MRI and digital subtraction angiography were referenced in a patient with PAD. Friedman's test and a post-hoc test according to the Bonferroni-adjusted Wilcoxon signed-rank test were used for the SIR, CNR, and visual assessment. p < 0.05 was considered statistically significant.
RESULTS: No significant differences in nearly all the SIRs were observed among the three MRA methods. Higher CNRs were observed with TSE-Acc than those with TFE-Acc (anterior tibial artery, p = 0.014; peroneal artery, p = 0.029; and posterior tibial artery, p = 0.014) in distal arterial segments; however, no significant differences were observed upon comparison with TRANCE (all p > 0.05). The arterial visibility scores exhibited similar trends as the CNRs. The artifact contamination scores with TSE-Acc were significantly lower (but within an acceptable level) compared to those with TFE-Acc. In the patient with PAD, the sluggish peripheral arteries were better visualized using TSE-Acc than those using TFE-Acc, and the collateral and stenosis arteries were better visualized using TSE-Acc than those using TRANCE.
CONCLUSION: Peripheral arterial visualization was better with TSE-Acc than that with TFE-Acc in lower extremity MRA without ECG or PPU triggering and contrast enhancement, which was comparable with TRANCE as the reference standard. Furthermore, TSE-Acc may propose satisfactory diagnostic performance for diagnosing PAD in patients with arrhythmia and chronic kidney disease.

Citation: Konta N, et al. Turbo spin-echo-based enhanced acceleration-selective arterial spin labeling without electrocardiography or peripheral pulse unit triggering and contrast enhancement for lower extremity MRA. Turbo spin-echo-based enhanced acceleration-selective arterial spin labeling without electrocardiography or peripheral pulse unit triggering and contrast enhancement for lower extremity MRA. 2024; 110:43-50. doi: 10.1016/j.mri.2024.04.008

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38604346/
