PMID: 38604314
Title: Itaconate as a key player in cardiovascular immunometabolism.

Abstract: Cardiovascular diseases (CVDs) are the leading cause of death globally, resulting in a major health burden. Thus, an urgent need exists for exploring effective therapeutic targets to block progression of CVDs and improve patient prognoses. Immune and inflammatory responses are involved in the development of atherosclerosis, ischemic myocardial damage responses and repair, calcification, and stenosis of the aortic valve. These responses can involve both large and small blood vessels throughout the body, leading to increased blood pressure and end-organ damage. While exploring potential avenues for therapeutic intervention in CVDs, researchers have begun to focus on immune metabolism, where metabolic changes that occur in immune cells in response to exogenous or endogenous stimuli can influence immune cell effector responses and local immune signaling. Itaconate, an intermediate metabolite of the tricarboxylic acid (TCA) cycle, is related to pathophysiological processes, including cellular metabolism, oxidative stress, and inflammatory immune responses. The expression of immune response gene 1 (IRG1) is upregulated in activated macrophages, and this gene encodes an enzyme that catalyzes the production of itaconate from the TCA cycle intermediate, cis-aconitate. Itaconate and its derivatives have exerted cardioprotective effects through immune modulation in various disease models, such as ischemic heart disease, valvular heart disease, vascular disease, heart transplantation, and chemotherapy drug-induced cardiotoxicity, implying their therapeutic potential in CVDs. In this review, we delve into the associated signaling pathways through which itaconate exerts immunomodulatory effects, summarize its specific roles in CVDs, and explore emerging immunological therapeutic strategies for managing CVDs.

Citation: Shan W, et al. Itaconate as a key player in cardiovascular immunometabolism. Itaconate as a key player in cardiovascular immunometabolism. 2024; 219:64-75. doi: 10.1016/j.freeradbiomed.2024.04.218

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38604314/
