PMID: 38613151
Title: Biliary strictures post pediatric liver transplantation-incidence and risk factors in a single tertiary referral transplant center.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Biliary strictures are a significant cause of morbidity and graft loss in pediatric liver transplant recipients. Risk factors for the development of biliary strictures are not fully established. We aimed to evaluate the incidence of biliary strictures and treatment modalities outcomes and to identify potential risk factors for occurrence.
METHODS: Pediatric patients who underwent liver transplantation in the single tertiary pediatric liver transplant center in Israel were evaluated. We compared demographics, presentation, laboratory results, imaging, treatment, and outcomes between patients with and without biliary stricture. Multivariate regression analyses were used to identify risk factors for biliary strictures.
RESULTS: Among 121 pediatric liver transplant patients, 65 (53.7%) were males; the median age at the time of liver transplantation was 43 (3-215) months. Fifteen patients (12.4%) had biliary strictures following transplantation. One (7%) patient with biliary stricture was treated via endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography, and 12 patients (80%) underwent interventions via a percutaneous transhepatic approach. Nine of the 12 patients were treated successfully, requiring one or multiple procedures, while the remaining had surgery or laser therapy. Risk factors for the development of biliary strictures were biliary leak, acute cellular rejection, and the presence of two biliary anastomoses.
CONCLUSIONS: In our cohort, the presence of two biliary anastomoses and post-transplant complications including acute cellular rejection and early biliary leaks were associated with biliary strictures in pediatric liver transplantation recipients. Percutaneous transhepatic interventions result in good outcomes in most patients.

Citation: Vingrovich O, et al. Biliary strictures post pediatric liver transplantation-incidence and risk factors in a single tertiary referral transplant center. Biliary strictures post pediatric liver transplantation-incidence and risk factors in a single tertiary referral transplant center. 2024; 28:e14727. doi: 10.1111/petr.14727

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38613151/
