PMID: 38619020
Title: Atorvastatin reduces calcification in valve interstitial cells via the NF-κB signalling pathway by promoting Atg5-mediated autophagy.

Abstract: Aortic valve calcification (AVC) is a common cardiovascular disease and a risk factor for sudden death. However, the potential mechanisms and effective therapeutic drugs need to be explored. Atorvastatin is a statin that can effectively prevent cardiovascular events by lowering cholesterol levels. However, whether atorvastatin can inhibit AVC by reducing low-density lipoprotein (LDL) and its possible mechanism of action require further exploration. In the current study, we constructed an in vitro AVC model by inducing calcification of the valve interstitial cells. We found that atorvastatin significantly inhibited osteogenic differentiation, reduced the deposition of calcium nodules in valve interstitial cells, and enhanced autophagy in calcified valve interstitial cells, manifested by increased expression levels of the autophagy proteins Atg5 and LC3B-II/I and the formation of smooth autophagic flow. Atorvastatin inhibited the NF-κB signalling pathway and the expression of inflammatory factors mediated by NF-κB in calcified valve interstitial cells. The activation of the NF-κB signalling pathway led to the reversal of atorvastatin's effect on enhancing autophagy and alleviating valve interstitial cell calcification. In conclusion, atorvastatin inhibited the NF-κB signalling pathway by upregulating autophagy, thereby alleviating valve interstitial cell calcification, which was conducive to improving AVC.

Citation: Chen M and Liu S. Atorvastatin reduces calcification in valve interstitial cells via the NF-κB signalling pathway by promoting Atg5-mediated autophagy. Atorvastatin reduces calcification in valve interstitial cells via the NF-κB signalling pathway by promoting Atg5-mediated autophagy. 2024; 68:(unknown pages). doi: 10.4081/ejh.2024.3983

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38619020/
