PMID: 38616249
Title: Successful Implantation of Rapid Deployment Aortic Valve after TAVR Explantation.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Transcatheter aortic valve replacement (TAVR) has become widely used in recent years, However, there is also an increasing need for removal of TAVR valves due to prosthetic valve dysfunction (PVD) and the development of infective endocarditis. Surgical aortic valve replacement (AVR) for these patients is risky due to the original patient background and anatomic conditions. Intuity rapid deployment aortic valve (Edwards Lifesciences, Irvine, CA) replacement would be useful for such high risk patients to prevent longer cardiac arrest time and obtain good hemodynamic results. However, there are few reports which present Intuity valve replacement after TAVR explantation. Herein, We report two cases in which we have achieved good hemodynamics with shorter cardiac arrest times by using a rapid deployment valve after TAVR explantation.
CASE PRESENTATION: We present 2 cases of successful implantation of the Intuity rapid deployment valve after TAVR explantation. The 84- and 88-year-old female patients had previously received TAVR for severe aortic stenosis with SAPIEN XT (Edwards Lifesciences, Irvine, CA) and developed PVD during follow-up. The TAVR valve was removed carefully, then an Intuity valve was implanted with cardiac arrest times of 69 and 41 min. Both patients had good echocardiographic results with effective orifice area of 2.0 cm2 and 1.2 cm2 and mean trans-aortic plessure gradient of 9 mmHg and 15 mmHg respectively without aortic regurgitation. They were discharged without major complications.
CONCLUSIONS: Surgical AVR using a rapid deployment valve is a useful alternative to sutured AVR after TAVR valve explantation. It allows for shorter cardiac arrest times and better postoperative hemodynamics without major complication.

Citation: Yanagino Y, et al. Successful Implantation of Rapid Deployment Aortic Valve after TAVR Explantation. Successful Implantation of Rapid Deployment Aortic Valve after TAVR Explantation. 2024; 19:211. doi: 10.1186/s13019-024-02728-5

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38616249/
