PMID: 38616934
Title: The role of external iliac artery diameter indexed to BSA score in predicting vascular access complications after transfemoral transcatheter aortic valve implantation.

Abstract: INTRODUCTION: Aortic stenosis is the most common primary valve disease and requires invasive treatment. Transcatheter aortic valve implantation (TAVI) from a transfemoral access is a routine intervention worldwide.
AIM: To investigate the correlation between external iliac artery diameter (EIAD) indexed to body surface area (BSA) (EIAD-BSA) and access site complications in patients undergoing TAVI via transfemoral access (TF) (TF-TAVI).
MATERIAL AND METHODS: Patients underwent TF-TAVI in 2017-2019 at the Upper-Silesian Medical Center in Katowice. Based on the preoperative multi-slice computed tomography (MSCT), pre-specified measurements of the ilio-femoral vessels were performed. The results were indexed to BSA and body mass index (BMI). Complications after TAVI were defined by Valve Academic Research Consortium 3 (VARC-3). The primary outcome regarding the adverse events after TAVI was the composite of access site complications requiring surgical intervention or blood transfusion.
RESULTS: The registry included 193 unselected patients with severe symptomatic aortic stenosis. Vascular and access-related complications including bleeding occurred in 17.1% of patients. Major TAVI access site complications (VARC-3) were reported in 5.7% of patients, while minor complications (VARC-3) occurred in 2.6%. EIAD-BSA demonstrated a positive correlation with the access site complications primary endpoint. Patients with greater EIAD-BSA had a numerically higher number of access site adverse events requiring surgical intervention or blood transfusion: n = 12 (5%) vs. n = 4 (4%), p = 0.011.
CONCLUSIONS: External iliac artery diameter indexed to BSA could be an underestimated indicator of unfavorable outcomes after TF-TAVI, predicting periprocedural access site complications.

Citation: Gruz-Kwapisz M, et al. The role of external iliac artery diameter indexed to BSA score in predicting vascular access complications after transfemoral transcatheter aortic valve implantation. The role of external iliac artery diameter indexed to BSA score in predicting vascular access complications after transfemoral transcatheter aortic valve implantation. 2024; 20:76-83. doi: 10.5114/aic.2024.136407

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38616934/
