PMID: 38618158
Title: Improving Stenosis Assessment in Energy Integrating Detector CT via Learned Monoenergetic Imaging Capability.

Abstract: Coronary CT angiography (cCTA) is a fast non-invasive imaging exam for coronary artery disease (CAD) but struggles with dense calcifications and stents due to blooming artifacts, potentially causing stenosis overestimation. Virtual monoenergetic images (VMIs) at higher keV (e.g., 100 keV) from photon counting detector (PCD) CT have shown promise in reducing blooming artifacts and improving lumen visibility through its simultaneous high-resolution and multi-energy imaging capability. However, most cCTA exams are performed with single-energy CT (SECT) using conventional energy-integrating detectors (EID). Generating VMIs through EID-CT requires advanced multi-energy CT (MECT) scanners and potentially sacrifices temporal resolution. Given these limitations, MECT cCTA exams are not commonly performed on EID-CT and VMIs are not routinely generated. To tackle this, we aim to enhance the multi-energy imaging capability of EID-CT through the utilization of a convolutional neural network to LEarn MONoenergetic imAging from VMIs at Different Energies (LEMONADE). The neural network was trained using ten patient cCTA exams acquired on a clinical PCD-CT (NAEOTOM Alpha, Siemens Healthineers), with 70 keV VMIs as input (which is nominally equivalent to the SECT from EID-CT scanned at 120 kV) and 100 keV VMIs as the target. Subsequently, we evaluated the performance of EID-CT equipped with LEMONADE on both phantom and patient cases (n=10) for stenosis assessment. Results indicated that LEMONADE accurately quantified stenosis in three phantoms, aligning closely with ground truth and demonstrating stenosis percentage area reductions of 13%, 8%, and 9%. In patient cases, it led to a 12.9% reduction in average diameter luminal stenosis when compared to the original SECT without LEMONADE. These outcomes highlight LEMONADE's capacity to enable multi-energy CT imaging, mitigate blooming artifacts, and improve stenosis assessment for the widely available EID-CT. This has a high potential impact as most cCTA exams are performed on EID-CT.

Citation: Chang S, et al. Improving Stenosis Assessment in Energy Integrating Detector CT via Learned Monoenergetic Imaging Capability. Improving Stenosis Assessment in Energy Integrating Detector CT via Learned Monoenergetic Imaging Capability. 2024; 12925:(unknown pages). doi: 10.1117/12.3006468

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38618158/
