PMID: 38617457
Title: Myocardial metastasis from ZEB1- and TWIST-positive spindle cell carcinoma of the esophagus: A case report.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Metastatic cardiac tumors are known to occur more frequently than primary cardiac tumors, however, they often remain asymptomatic and are commonly discovered on autopsy. Malignant tumors with a relatively high frequency of cardiac metastasis include mesothelioma, melanoma, lung cancer, and breast cancer, whereas reports of esophageal cancer with cardiac metastasis are rare.
CASE SUMMARY: The case of a 60-year-old man who complained of dysphagia is presented. Upper gastrointestinal endoscopy showed a submucosal tumor-like elevated lesion in the esophagus causing stenosis. Contrast-enhanced computed tomography showed left atrial compression due to the esophageal tumor, multiple liver and lung metastases, and a left pleural effusion. Pathological examination of a biopsy specimen from the esophageal tumor showed spindle-shaped cells, raising suspicion of esophageal sarcoma. The disease progressed rapidly, and systemic chemotherapy was deemed necessary, however, due to his poor general condition, administration of cytotoxic agents was considered difficult. Given his high Combined Positive Score, nivolumab was administered, however, the patient soon died from the disease. The autopsy confirmed spindle cell carcinoma (SCC) of the esophagus and cardiac metastasis with similar histological features. Cancer stem cell markers, ZEB1 and TWIST, were positive in both the primary tumor and the cardiac metastasis.
CONCLUSION: To the best of our knowledge, there have been no prior reports of cardiac metastasis of esophageal SCC. This case highlights our experience with a patient with esophageal SCC who progressed rapidly and died from the disease, with the autopsy examination showing cardiac metastasis.

Citation: Shibata Y, et al. Myocardial metastasis from ZEB1- and TWIST-positive spindle cell carcinoma of the esophagus: A case report. Myocardial metastasis from ZEB1- and TWIST-positive spindle cell carcinoma of the esophagus: A case report. 2024; 30:1636-1643. doi: 10.3748/wjg.v30.i11.1636

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38617457/
