PMID: 38614364
Title: Circulating soluble fibroblast activation protein (FAP) levels are independent of cardiac and extra-cardiac FAP expression determined by targeted molecular imaging in patients with myocardial FAP activation.

Abstract: INTRODUCTION: Tissue Fibroblast Activation Protein alpha (FAP) is overexpressed in various types of acute and chronic cardiovascular disease. A soluble form of FAP has been detected in human plasma, and low circulating FAP concentrations are associated with increased risk of death in patients with acute coronary syndrome. However, little is known about the regulation and release of FAP from fibroblasts, and whether circulating FAP concentration is associated with tissue FAP expression. This study characterizes the release of FAP in human cardiac fibroblasts (CF) and analyzes the association of circulating FAP concentrations with in vivo tissue FAP expression in patients with acute (ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction, STEMI) and chronic (severe aortic stenosis, AS) myocardial FAP expression.
METHODS AND RESULTS: FAP was released from CF in a time- and concentration-dependent manner. FAP concentration was higher in supernatant of TGFβ-stimulated CF, and correlated with cellular FAP concentration. Inhibition of metallo- and serine-proteases diminished FAP release in vitro. Median FAP concentrations of patients with acute (77 ng/mL) and chronic (75 ng/mL, p = 0.50 vs. STEMI) myocardial FAP expression did not correlate with myocardial nor extra-myocardial nor total FAP volume (P ≥ 0.61 in all cases) measured by whole-body FAP-targeted positron emission tomography.
CONCLUSION: We describe a time- and concentration dependent, protease-mediated release of FAP from cardiac fibroblasts. Circulating FAP concentrations were not associated with increased in vivo tissue FAP expression determined by molecular imaging in patients with both chronic and acute myocardial FAP expression. These data suggest that circulating FAP and tissue FAP expression provide complementary, non-interchangeable information.

Citation: Tillmanns J, et al. Circulating soluble fibroblast activation protein (FAP) levels are independent of cardiac and extra-cardiac FAP expression determined by targeted molecular imaging in patients with myocardial FAP activation. Circulating soluble fibroblast activation protein (FAP) levels are independent of cardiac and extra-cardiac FAP expression determined by targeted molecular imaging in patients with myocardial FAP activation. 2024; 406:132044. doi: 10.1016/j.ijcard.2024.132044

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38614364/
