PMID: 38612796
Title: Unified Methodology for the Primary Preclinical In Vivo Screening of New Anticoagulant Pharmaceutical Agents from Hematophagous Organisms.

Abstract: The development of novel anticoagulants requires a comprehensive investigational approach that is capable of characterizing different aspects of antithrombotic activity. The necessary experiments include both in vitro assays and studies on animal models. The required in vivo approaches include the assessment of pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic profiles and studies of hemorrhagic and antithrombotic effects. Comparison of anticoagulants with different mechanisms of action and administration types requires unification of the experiment scheme and its adaptation to existing laboratory conditions. The rodent thrombosis models in combination with the assessment of hemostasis parameters and hematological analysis are the classic methods for conducting preclinical studies. We report an approach for the comparative study of the activity of different anticoagulants in vivo, including the investigation of pharmacodynamics and the assessment of hemorrhagic effects (tail-cut bleeding model) and pathological thrombus formation (inferior vena cava stenosis model of venous thrombosis). The reproducibility and uniformity of our set of experiments were illustrated on unfractionated heparin and dabigatran etexilate (the most common pharmaceuticals in antithrombic therapy) as comparator drugs and an experimental drug variegin from the tick Amblyomma variegatum. Variegin is notorious since it is a potential analogue of bivalirudin (Angiomax, Novartis AG, Basel, Switzerland), which is now being actively introduced into antithrombotic therapy.

Citation: Kostromina MA, et al. Unified Methodology for the Primary Preclinical In Vivo Screening of New Anticoagulant Pharmaceutical Agents from Hematophagous Organisms. Unified Methodology for the Primary Preclinical In Vivo Screening of New Anticoagulant Pharmaceutical Agents from Hematophagous Organisms. 2024; 25:(unknown pages). doi: 10.3390/ijms25073986

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38612796/
