PMID: 38625611
Title: ESR Essentials: imaging in stable chest pain - practice recommendations by ESCR.

Abstract: Stable chest pain is a common symptom with multiple potential causes. Non-invasive imaging has an important role in diagnosis and guiding management through the assessment of coronary stenoses, atherosclerotic plaque, myocardial ischaemia or infarction, and cardiac function. Computed tomography (CT) provides the anatomical evaluation of coronary artery disease (CAD) with the assessment of stenosis, plaque type and plaque burden, with additional functional information available from CT fractional flow reserve (FFR) or CT myocardial perfusion imaging. Stress magnetic resonance imaging, nuclear stress myocardial perfusion imaging, and stress echocardiography can assess myocardial ischaemia and other cardiac functional parameters. Coronary CT angiography can be used as a first-line test for many patients with stable chest pain, particularly those with low to intermediate pre-test probability. Functional testing may be considered for patients with known CAD, where the clinical significance is uncertain based on anatomical testing, or in patients with high pre-test probability. This practice recommendations document can be used to guide the selection of non-invasive imaging for patients with stable chest pain and provides brief recommendations on how to perform and report these diagnostic tests. KEY POINTS: The selection of non-invasive imaging tests for patients with stable chest pain should be based on symptoms, pre-test probability, and previous history. Coronary CT angiography can be used as a first-line test for many patients with stable chest pain, particularly those with low to intermediate pre-test probability. Functional testing can be considered for patients with known CAD, where the clinical significance of CAD is uncertain based on anatomical testing, or in patients with high pre-test probability. KEY RECOMMENDATIONS: Non-invasive imaging is an important part of the assessment of patients with stable chest pain. The selection of non-invasive imaging test should be based on symptoms, pre-test probability, and previous history. (Level of evidence: High). Coronary CT angiography can be used as a first line test for many patients with stable chest pain, particularly those with low to intermediate pre-test probability. CT provides information on stenoses, plaque type, plaque volume, and if required functional information with CT fractional flow reserve or CT perfusion. (Level of evidence: High). Functional testing can be considered for patients with known CAD, where the clinical significance of CAD is uncertain based on anatomical testing, or in patients with high pre-test probability. Stress MRI, SPECT, PET, and echocardiography can provide information on myocardial ischemia, along with cardiac functional and other information. (Level of evidence: Medium).

Citation: Muscogiuri G, et al. ESR Essentials: imaging in stable chest pain - practice recommendations by ESCR. ESR Essentials: imaging in stable chest pain - practice recommendations by ESCR. 2024; 34:6559-6567. doi: 10.1007/s00330-024-10739-y

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38625611/
