PMID: 38621839
Title: Simulation of cancer progression in bone by a virtual thermal flux with a case study on lumbar vertebrae with multiple myeloma.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Two main problems examining the mechanism of cancer progression in the tissues using the computational models are lack of enough knowledge on the effective factors for such events in vivo environments and lack of specific parameters in the available computational models to simulate such complicated reactions.
METHODS: In this study, it was tried to simulate the progression of cancerous lesions in the bone tissues by an independent parameter from the anatomical and physiological characteristics of the tissues, so to degrade the orthotropic mechanical properties of the bone tissues, a virtual temperature was determined to be used by a well-known framework for simulation of damages in the composite materials. First, the reliability of the FE model to simulate hyperelastic response in the intervertebral discs (IVDs) and progressive failure in the bony components were verified by simulation of some In-Vitro tests, available in the literature. Then, the progression of the osteolytic damage was simulated in a clinical case with multiple myeloma in the lumbar vertebrae.
RESULTS: The FE model could simulate stress-shielding and diffusion of lesion in the posterior elements of the damaged vertebra which led to spinal stenosis. The load carrying shares associated with the anterior half and the posterior half of the examined vertebral body and the posterior elements were estimated equal to 41 %, 47 % and 12 %, respectively for the intact condition, that changed to 14 %, 16 % and 70 %, when lesion occupied one third of the vertebral body.
CONCLUSION: Correlation of the FE results with the deformation shapes, observed in the MRIs for the clinical case study, indicated appropriateness of the procedure, proposed for simulation of the progressive osteolytic damage in the vertebral segments. The future studies may follow simulation of tumor growth for various metastatic tissues using the method, established here.

Citation: Nazari AR. Simulation of cancer progression in bone by a virtual thermal flux with a case study on lumbar vertebrae with multiple myeloma. Simulation of cancer progression in bone by a virtual thermal flux with a case study on lumbar vertebrae with multiple myeloma. 2024; 126:104147. doi: 10.1016/j.medengphy.2024.104147

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38621839/
