PMID: 38632689
Title: Initial Experience with a New Self-Expanding Open-Cell Stent System with Antithrombotic Hydrophilic Polymer Coating (pEGASUS Stent) in the Treatment of Wide-Necked Intracranial Aneurysms.

Abstract: PURPOSE: We report our initial experience with endovascular embolization of intracranial aneurysms using this new self-expanding open-cell stent system (pEGASUS stent system) with the antithrombogenic hydrophilic polymer coating.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: We retrospectively reviewed all patients treated with stent-assisted coiling or the Woven EndoBridge device using the pEGASUS stent system between September 2022 and June 2023. Demographic, clinical, and angiographic data were analyzed as well as short-term follow-up, including procedural complication rates and aneurysmal occlusion rates using the Raymond-Roy occlusion classification (RROC).
RESULTS: Twelve patients with 12 wide-necked intracranial aneurysms were treated with the pEGASUS stent system, including 2 acutely ruptured aneurysms embolized in an emergency setting. The treated aneurysms were located at the anterior communicating artery (25.0%), the basilar artery (50.0%), the middle cerebral artery (16.7%), and the internal carotid artery (8.3%). All stents were deployed successfully. Immediate complete aneurysmal occlusion (RROC class I) was achieved in 83.3% (10/12) and near-complete occlusion (RROC II) in 16.7% (2/12). No periprocedural complications occurred in patients treated in the elective setting. A single case of intraoperative in-stent thrombus formation occurred during the treatment of an acutely ruptured basilar aneurysm and was resolved with intravenous Tirofiban. No other periprocedural complications occurred. Eleven out of 12 patients were available for follow up (mean 7.4 months). Complete aneurysmal occlusion without in-stent stenosis (ISS) was seen in 10 patients (90.9%). One patient (9.1%) showed aneurysmal reperfusion (RROC IIIb) with asymptomatic moderate ISS.
CONCLUSION: Our initial results demonstrate that the pEGASUS stent system appears to be a safe and effective device for stent assisted embolization of wide-necked intracranial aneurysms. More data is necessary to evaluate long-term follow-up.

Citation: Boxberg F, et al. Initial Experience with a New Self-Expanding Open-Cell Stent System with Antithrombotic Hydrophilic Polymer Coating (pEGASUS Stent) in the Treatment of Wide-Necked Intracranial Aneurysms. Initial Experience with a New Self-Expanding Open-Cell Stent System with Antithrombotic Hydrophilic Polymer Coating (pEGASUS Stent) in the Treatment of Wide-Necked Intracranial Aneurysms. 2024; 19:74-81. doi: 10.5469/neuroint.2024.00066

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38632689/
