PMID: 38638284
Title: Case report of a rare cause of secondary hypertension illustrating the importance of cardio-obstetric preconception counselling.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Cardiovascular diseases represent a leading cause of maternal morbidity and mortality in industrialized countries. High blood pressure during pregnancy is a major driver of short- and long-term cardiovascular health in both mother and child. Screening and adequate treatment of elevated blood pressure before pregnancy significantly reduce mortality risk to mother and child.
CASE SUMMARY: A 30-year-old woman with middle aortic coarctation (MAC) previously treated with aortic stenting was referred to our cardio-obstetrics with plans to become pregnant. The clinical examination revealed severe hypertension with a significant blood pressure gradient between the upper and lower limbs. The patient underwent computed tomography angiography showing re-stenosis of the aorta. After the analysis of the benefit risk of all treatment options, percutaneous transluminal aortic in-stent re-stenting was performed. Following the intervention, blood pressure profile significantly improved but remained slightly elevated further necessitating the introduction of an antihypertensive therapy.
DISCUSSION: This clinical case condenses several challenges encountered in the management of hypertension in women who plan to become pregnant. Firstly, it emphasizes the fact that secondary causes of chronic hypertension, including MAC, do not have to be overlooked in childbearing age patient. Secondly, it illustrates the need for a multidisciplinary analysis of all available treatment options in view of a future pregnancy. Finally, it discusses the particular follow-up and potential complications in pregnant women with MAC and aortic stent.

Citation: Meister TA, et al. Case report of a rare cause of secondary hypertension illustrating the importance of cardio-obstetric preconception counselling. Case report of a rare cause of secondary hypertension illustrating the importance of cardio-obstetric preconception counselling. 2024; 8:ytae092. doi: 10.1093/ehjcr/ytae092

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38638284/
