PMID: 38631371
Title: The value of AI-based analysis of fractional flow reserve of volume computed tomographically detected coronary artery stenosis with regard to their hemodynamic relevance.

Abstract: The aim of our work was to demonstrate the importance of artificial intelligence-based analysis of fractional flow reserves of computed tomographically detected coronary artery stenosis with regard to their hemodynamic relevance in patients with unclear chest pain and suspected stable coronary heart disease with a low to medium pre-test probability.The collective of our retrospective analysis includes 63 patients in whom coronary artery stenosis was detected by volume computed tomographic examination in "one beat, whole heart" mode in the period from March to October 2022. In these patients, the fractional flow reserve was also determined by computed tomography, which was modulated by the use of artificial intelligence.The calculated values of the fractional flow reserve and the degrees of stenosis determined by computed tomography showed a moderate and significant negative correlation for all three coronary vascular territories (LAD/CX/RCA) (correlation coefficient rho = 0.54/0.54/0.6; p < 0.01 respectively). In just over a third (37.6 %) of all stenoses classified as high-grade by computed tomography, the assessment of hemodynamic relevance by calculating the fractional flow reserve deviated from the severity of the stenosis diagnosed by computed tomography, while the results in the peripheral areas "no stenosis/vascular occlusion" were 100 % consistent in each case.The present results of this work illustrate that the calculation of the fractional flow reserve based on artificial intelligence as a supplement to volume computed tomography of the heart can make a decisive contribution to further therapy planning by increasing the specificity of the purely morphological method by the physiological aspect. · Calculation of fractional flow reserve is a useful addition to computed tomography of the heart.. · It provides possibility to dispense with unnecessary further diagnostics by increasing specificity.. · The combination of both procedures leads to therapy optimization for patients.. · Noblé H, Mühlbauer N, Ehling J et al. The value of AI-based analysis of fractional flow reserve of volume computed tomographically detected coronary artery stenosis with regard to their hemodynamic relevance. Fortschr Röntgenstr 2024; DOI: 10.1055/a-2271-0887.

Citation: Noblé HJ, et al. The value of AI-based analysis of fractional flow reserve of volume computed tomographically detected coronary artery stenosis with regard to their hemodynamic relevance. The value of AI-based analysis of fractional flow reserve of volume computed tomographically detected coronary artery stenosis with regard to their hemodynamic relevance. 2024; (unknown volume):(unknown pages). doi: 10.1055/a-2271-0887

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38631371/
