PMID: 38639140
Title: Single suture-mediated closure system after transfemoral transcatheter aortic valve implantation: A single-center real-world experience.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Despite the use of two crossed Perclose ProGlide™ (Abbott Vascular Devices) is the most widespread technique to close the main arterial access in transfemoral transcatheter aortic valve implantation (TF-TAVI), the safest and most effective strategy still remains much debated.
AIMS: The aim of the present study was to evaluate the performance of a single Perclose ProGlide suture-mediated closure device to obtain femoral hemostasis after sheathless implantation of self-expanding transcatheter heart valves through their 14 F-equivalent fix delivery systems.
METHODS: This prospective observational study included 439 patients undergoing TF-TAVI at the "Montevergine" Clinic of Mercogliano, Italy. All patients underwent hemostasis of the large-bore access using a single Perclose ProGlide with preclose technique, after sheathless implantation of self-expanding transcatheter heart valves through 14 F-equivalent fix delivery systems. A multidetector computed tomography analysis of size, tortuosity, atherosclerotic, and calcification burdens of the ilio-femoral access route was made by a dedicated corelab. Vascular complications (VCs), percutaneous closure device (PCD) failure, and bleedings were adjudicated by a clinical events committee.
RESULTS: A total of 81 different VCs were observed in 60 patients (13.7%); among these, 41 (5% of patients) were categorized as major. PCD failure occurred in 14 patients (3.2%). At the logistic regression analysis, no predictors of PCD failure have been identified.
CONCLUSION: This registry suggests that the use of a single suture-mediated closure device could be considered a safe and efficient technique to achieve access site hemostasis in patients undergoing TF-TAVI through 14 F-equivalent fix delivery systems.

Citation: Iacovelli F, et al. Single suture-mediated closure system after transfemoral transcatheter aortic valve implantation: A single-center real-world experience. Single suture-mediated closure system after transfemoral transcatheter aortic valve implantation: A single-center real-world experience. 2024; 103:1125-1137. doi: 10.1002/ccd.31054

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38639140/
