PMID: 38638756
Title: Restoring Access in a Thrombosed Hemodialysis Reliable Outflow Graft Using the InThrill Thrombectomy System.

Abstract: Arteriovenous grafts (AVGs) provide vascular access for hemodialysis in patients with end-stage renal disease (ESRD). However, vascular access thrombosis often occurs, requiring frequent reinterventions to maintain access patency. This report describes the successful use of the InThrill Thrombectomy System (Irvine, CA: Inari Medical) for macerating and removing thrombus from an occluded and heavily thrombosed AVG. A 47-year-old male was sent to our institute for a thrombosed right upper extremity arteriovenous access with a HeRO graft (South Jordan, UT: Merit Medical). The patient underwent interventions for the thrombosis of the same AVG two weeks prior using an Aspirex catheter (Franklin Lakes, NJ: BD Medical), and again two days prior with a Fogarty balloon catheter (Irvine, CA: Edwards Lifesciences). The patient presented with a recurrent completely occluded AVG. Using the InThrill Thrombectomy System and balloon angioplasty, the stenosis was reduced to less than 20%, resulting in brisk flow. The patient tolerated the procedure well without complication and recovered in the holding area with no acute distress. He was discharged the same day on anticoagulation therapy. This study highlights the successful use of the InThrill Thrombectomy System for the treatment of thrombosed AVG in a hemodialysis-dependent ESRD patient. The device was easy to use and efficient. Device and procedure times are unparalleled when compared with thrombolytic-based procedures. The patient's AVG remained patent at a 14-day follow-up.

Citation: Devireddy RR and Qaqi O. Restoring Access in a Thrombosed Hemodialysis Reliable Outflow Graft Using the InThrill Thrombectomy System. Restoring Access in a Thrombosed Hemodialysis Reliable Outflow Graft Using the InThrill Thrombectomy System. 2024; 16:e56496. doi: 10.7759/cureus.56496

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38638756/
