PMID: 38643044
Title: Radiotherapy induced ureteric stenosis in locally advanced cervical cancer: A review of current evidence.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Concurrent chemo-radiation followed by high dose rate brachytherapy is the standard of care for locally advanced cervical cancer. The proximity of the ureters to the tumor volume risks ureteric stenosis. Here we outline the current understanding of radiotherapy induced ureteric stenosis in patients treated for cervical cancer, focusing on the incidence, risk factors, clinical consequences, and management.
METHODS: Searches on EMBASE, PubMed, Science Direct, and Google Scholar were performed for publications reporting on radiotherapy, cervix cancer and ureteric stenosis. Multi and single center, prospective/retrospective, cohort, and cross-sectional studies were included.
RESULTS: This narrative review identified key issues relevant to radiation induced ureteric stenosis in cervical cancer in the literature. Thirteen studies were evaluated, identifying crude and actuarial rates of ureteric stenosis of 0.3-13.5% and 1.5-4.4% (at 5 years) respectively. The risk of ureteric stenosis is highest in the first 5 years after radiotherapy but continues to occur at a rate of 0.15% per year. Risk factors including advanced FIGO stage, tumor size >5 cm and baseline hydronephrosis increase the incidence of ureteric stenosis. EQD2 doses of ≥ 77Gy were significantly associated with ≥grade 3 ureteric morbidity. The majority of patients were managed with nephrostomy +/- ureteric stent insertion, with some requiring ureteral reimplantation, urinary diversion or nephrectomy.
CONCLUSIONS: This review has identified multiple considerations, highlighting the need to identify patients highest at risk of ureteric stenosis. There is also a need to recognize ureters as organs at risk, record dose exposure, and apply dose constraints, all of which set the landscape for allowing dose optimization.

Citation: Sarwar A and Eminowicz G. Radiotherapy induced ureteric stenosis in locally advanced cervical cancer: A review of current evidence. Radiotherapy induced ureteric stenosis in locally advanced cervical cancer: A review of current evidence. 2024; 23:387-396. doi: 10.1016/j.brachy.2024.03.002

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38643044/
