PMID: 38646078
Title: A case of spontaneous coronary artery dissection that later turned out to be Takayasu arteritis.

Abstract: UNLABELLED: Spontaneous coronary artery dissection (SCAD) is a rare cause of acute coronary syndrome (ACS), which typically occurs in women at low risk of atherosclerosis. We herein report a case of SCAD in a 57-year-old man who later developed Takayasu arteritis. The patient presented to our hospital complaining of chest pain and was diagnosed with unstable angina. Emergent coronary angiography was performed, and optical coherence tomography revealed that ACS was caused by SCAD. The patient was treated medically without further ballooning or stenting. Because there was a bilateral difference in blood pressure, the systemic artery was screened by contrast-enhanced computed tomography, which showed left subclavian artery occlusion, proximal stenosis of the superior mesenteric artery, right common iliac artery dissection, and left external iliac artery dissection. Based on these results and 18F-fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography findings, we diagnosed Takayasu arteritis. Prednisolone and tocilizumab were selected for medical treatment, and the patient was in a good condition at one year after the diagnosis. Takayasu arteritis can cause dissection of various arteries and should be suspected when atypical SCAD or multiple dissections are present. Early initiation of immunosuppressive therapy can control disease activity.
LEARNING OBJECTIVE: Spontaneous coronary artery dissection (SCAD) is an important cause of acute coronary syndrome. In this case, we experienced a case of SCAD which turned out to be the first symptom of Takayasu arteritis. Immunosuppressive therapy was effective for both coronary lesion and systemic vasculitis. Not only fibromuscular dysplasia, but also various types of vasculitis should therefore be considered in the differential diagnosis when encountering atypical SCAD cases.

Citation: Tezuka T, et al. A case of spontaneous coronary artery dissection that later turned out to be Takayasu arteritis. A case of spontaneous coronary artery dissection that later turned out to be Takayasu arteritis. 2024; 29:186-189. doi: 10.1016/j.jccase.2023.12.009

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38646078/
