PMID: 38644318
Title: [A Case of Adenocarcinoma of Pancreatic Head of Liver Disfunction after Pancreaticoduodenectomy with Celiac Artery Stenosis Treated by Urgent Median Arcuate Ligament Release].

Abstract: This patient visited our hospital for the purpose of detailed examination of prostate cancer in his seventies. Abdominal contrast-enhanced computed tomography(CT)revealed a low-density mass of 2 cm in the pancreatic head. He was diagnosed with pancreatic cancer. Pancreaticoduodenectomy was performed after 2 courses of gemcitabine and S-1 therapy were performed as neoadjuvant chemotherapy. An intraoperative clamp test of the gastroduodenal artery showed that the pulsation of the common hepatic artery and the proper hepatic artery was weak but sufficient, so the gastroduodenal artery was cut and the operation was completed as planned. A blood test on the 1st day after the operation showed elevated levels of AST 537 U/L, ALT 616 U/L, and 7 hours later blood sampling showed further increases in AST 1,455 U/L, ALT 1,314 U/L. After a detailed review of the preoperative CT, celiac artery stenosis due to compression of the arcuate ligament was suspected, and urgent median arcuate ligament release was performed on the same day. Dissection of the arcuate ligament significantly improved the pulsation of the common hepatic artery and proper hepatic artery. Postoperatively, hepatic enzymes improved and ISGPS showed Grade B pancreatic juice leakage, but the patient was discharged from the hospital on the 49th postoperative day without any other complications. He took S-1 as adjuvant chemotherapy, and no signs of recurrence have been observed 9 months after the operation.

Citation: Matsushita K, et al. [A Case of Adenocarcinoma of Pancreatic Head of Liver Disfunction after Pancreaticoduodenectomy with Celiac Artery Stenosis Treated by Urgent Median Arcuate Ligament Release]. [A Case of Adenocarcinoma of Pancreatic Head of Liver Disfunction after Pancreaticoduodenectomy with Celiac Artery Stenosis Treated by Urgent Median Arcuate Ligament Release]. 2024; 51:448-450.

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38644318/
