PMID: 38641592
Title: Contrast extravasation mimicking intracerebral and intraventricular hemorrhage after intravenous thrombolytic treatment of ischemic stroke: a case report.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Although contrast extravasation on follow-up head computed tomography (CT) is frequently visualized after endovascular treatment, this phenomenon is rare after intravenous thrombolytic treatment in patients with acute ischemic stroke (AIS). Here, we report a case of contrast extravasation mimicking intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH) with intraventricular extension after intravenous thrombolytic treatment and computed tomography angiography (CTA).
CASE PRESENTATION: A 52-year-old man presented with right-sided hemiparesis and hypoesthesia. Initial non-contrast head CT was negative for intracranial hemorrhage and acute ischemic changes. He received intravenous treatment with tenecteplase 3.8 h after the onset of stroke. CTA of the head and neck was performed at 4.3 h after stroke onset. It showed no stenosis or occlusion of the carotid and major intracranial arteries. At about 1.5 h after CTA, the right-sided hemiparesis deteriorated, accompanied by drowsiness, aphasia, and urinary incontinence. Immediate head CT showed hyperdense lesions with mild space-occupying effect in the left basal ganglia and both lateral ventricles. The hyperdense lesions were reduced in size on follow-up CT after 5 h. Two days later, CT showed that the hyperdense lesions in the lateral ventricles almost completely disappeared and only a small amount remained in the infarcted area.
CONCLUSIONS: Contrast extravasation into the brain tissue and lateral ventricles, mimicking ICH with intraventricular extension, could occur after intravenous thrombolytic treatment and CTA in a patient with AIS, which might lead to misdiagnosis and wrong treatment of the patient. The rapid resolution of intracranial hyperdense lesions is key to differentiate contrast extravasation from ICH on serial non-enhanced CT.

Citation: Tang J, et al. Contrast extravasation mimicking intracerebral and intraventricular hemorrhage after intravenous thrombolytic treatment of ischemic stroke: a case report. Contrast extravasation mimicking intracerebral and intraventricular hemorrhage after intravenous thrombolytic treatment of ischemic stroke: a case report. 2024; 24:134. doi: 10.1186/s12883-024-03618-y

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38641592/
