PMID: 38646785
Title: Apelin-13: a novel approach to suppressing renin production in RVHT.

Abstract: Renovascular hypertension (RVHT) is characterized by renal artery stenosis and overactivated renin-angiotensin system (RAS). Apelin, known for its negative modulation of RAS, has protective effects against cardiovascular diseases. The role and mechanisms of the primary active form of apelin, apelin-13, in RVHT are unclear. In this study, male Sprague-Dawley rats were divided into control, two-kidney one-clip (2K1C) model, and 2K1C with apelin-13 treatment groups. Renin expression was analyzed using immunohistochemistry and molecular techniques. Full-length (pro)renin receptor (fPRR) and soluble PRR (sPRR) levels were assessed via Western blotting, and cAMP levels were measured using ELISA. Plasma renin content, plasma renin activity (PRA), angiotensin II (ANG II), and sPRR levels were determined by ELISA. Human Calu-6 and mouse As4.1 cells were used to investigate renin production mechanisms. The 2K1C model exhibited increased systolic blood pressure, plasma renin content, PRA, sPRR, and ANG II levels, while apelin-13 treatment reduced these elevations. Apelin-13 inhibited cAMP production, renin mRNA expression, protein synthesis, and PRR/sPRR protein expression in renal tissue. In Calu-6 cells, cAMP-induced fPRR and site-1 protease (S1P)-derived sPRR expression, which was blocked by cAMP-responsive element-binding protein (CREB) inhibition. Apelin-13 suppressed cAMP elevation, CREB phosphorylation, fPRR/sPRR protein expression, and renin production. Recombinant sPRR (sPRR-His) stimulated renin production, which was inhibited by the PRR decoy peptide PRO20 and S1P inhibitor PF429242. These findings suggest that apelin-13 inhibits plasma renin expression through the cAMP/PKA/sPRR pathway, providing a potential therapeutic approach for RVHT. Understanding the regulation of renin production is crucial for developing effective treatments.NEW &amp; NOTEWORTHY Our research elucidated that apelin-13 inhibits renin production through the cAMP/PKA/soluble (pro)renin receptor pathway, presenting a promising therapeutic approach for renovascular hypertension (RVHT) by targeting renin expression mechanisms. These findings underscore the potential of apelin-13 as a novel strategy to address RVHT.

Citation: Yan Z, et al. Apelin-13: a novel approach to suppressing renin production in RVHT. Apelin-13: a novel approach to suppressing renin production in RVHT. 2024; 326:C1683-C1696. doi: 10.1152/ajpcell.00092.2024

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38646785/
