PMID: 38654269
Title: The additive effect of metabolic syndrome on left ventricular impairment in patients with obstructive coronary artery disease assessed by 3.0 T cardiac magnetic resonance feature tracking.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Metabolic syndrome (MetS) can increase the risk of morbidity and mortality of cardiovascular disease and obstructive coronary artery disease (OCAD), which usually have a poor prognosis. This study aimed to explore the impact of MetS on left ventricular (LV) deformation and function in OCAD patients and investigate the independent factors of impaired LV function and deformation.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: A total of 121 patients with OCAD and 52 sex- and age-matched controls who underwent cardiac magnetic resonance scanning were enrolled in the study. All OCAD patients were divided into two groups: OCAD with MetS [OCAD(MetS+), n = 83] and OCAD without MetS [OCAD(MetS-), n = 38]. LV functional and global strain parameters were measured and compared among the three groups. Multivariable linear regression analyses were constructed to investigate the independent factors of LV impairment in OCAD patients. Logistic regression analysis and receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve analysis were performed to test the prediction efficiency of MetS for LV impairment.
RESULTS: From controls to the OCAD(MetS-) group to the OCAD(MetS+) group, LV mass (LVM) increased, and LV global function index (LVGFI) and LV global longitudinal peak strain (GLPS) decreased (all p < 0.05). Compared with the OCAD(MetS-) group, the LV GLPS declined significantly (p = 0.027), the LVM increased (p = 0.006), and the LVGFI decreased (p = 0.043) in the OCAD(MetS+) group. After adjustment for covariates in OCAD patients, MetS was an independent factor of decreased LV GLPS (β = - 0.211, p = 0.002) and increased LVM (β = 0.221, p = 0.003). The logistic multivariable regression analysis and ROC analysis showed that combined MetS improved the efficiency of predicting LV GLPS reduction (AUC = 0.88) and LVM (AUC = 0.89) increase.
CONCLUSIONS: MetS aggravated the damage of LV deformation and function in OCAD patients and was independently associated with LV deformation and impaired LV strain. Additionally, MetS increased the prediction efficiency of increased LVM and decreased LV GLPS. Early detection and intervention of MetS in patients with OCAD is of great significance.

Citation: Min CY, et al. The additive effect of metabolic syndrome on left ventricular impairment in patients with obstructive coronary artery disease assessed by 3.0 T cardiac magnetic resonance feature tracking. The additive effect of metabolic syndrome on left ventricular impairment in patients with obstructive coronary artery disease assessed by 3.0 T cardiac magnetic resonance feature tracking. 2024; 23:133. doi: 10.1186/s12933-024-02225-y

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38654269/
