PMID: 38654373
Title: A first-in-human clinical study of laparoscopic autologous myoblast sheet transplantation to prevent delayed perforation after duodenal endoscopic mucosal dissection.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: The detection rate of superficial non-ampullary duodenal epithelial tumors (SNADETs) has recently been increasing. Large tumors may contain malignant lesions and early therapeutic intervention is recommended. Endoscopic mucosal dissection (ESD) is considered a feasible treatment modality, however, the anatomical and physiological characteristics of the duodenum create a risk of postoperative perforation after ESD.
METHODS: To explore whether myoblast sheet transplantation could prevent delayed perforation after ESD, a first-in-human (FIH) clinical trial of laparoscopic autologous myoblast sheet transplantation after duodenal ESD was launched. Autologous myoblast sheets fabricated from muscle tissue obtained seven weeks before ESD were transplanted laparoscopically onto the serous side of the ESD. The primary endpoints were the onset of peritonitis due to delayed perforation within three days after surgery and all adverse events during the follow-up period.
RESULTS: Three patients with SNADETs ≥ 20 mm in size underwent transplantation of a myoblast sheet onto the serous side of the duodenum after ESD. In case 1, The patient's postoperative course was uneventful. Endoscopy and abdominal computed tomography revealed no signs of delayed perforation. Despite incomplete mucosal closure in case 2, and multiple micro perforations during ESD in case 3, cell sheet transplantation could prevent the postoperative massive perforation after ESD, and endoscopy on day 49 after transplantation revealed no stenosis.
CONCLUSIONS: This clinical trial showed the safety, efficacy, and procedural operability of this novel regenerative medicine approach involving transplanting an autologous myoblast sheet laparoscopically onto the serosa after ESD in cases with a high risk of delayed perforation. This result indicates the potential application of cell sheet medicine in treating various abdominal organs and conditions with minimal invasiveness in the future.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: jRCT, jRCT2073210094. Registered November 8 2021, https://jrct.niph.go.jp/latest-detail/jRCT2073210094 .

Citation: Kanetaka K, et al. A first-in-human clinical study of laparoscopic autologous myoblast sheet transplantation to prevent delayed perforation after duodenal endoscopic mucosal dissection. A first-in-human clinical study of laparoscopic autologous myoblast sheet transplantation to prevent delayed perforation after duodenal endoscopic mucosal dissection. 2024; 15:117. doi: 10.1186/s13287-024-03730-3

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38654373/
