PMID: 38658774
Title: A novel rabbit model of atherosclerotic vulnerable plaque established by cryofluid-induced endothelial injury.

Abstract: Acute thrombosis secondary to atherosclerotic plaque rupture is the main cause of acute cardiac and cerebral ischemia. An animal model of unstable atherosclerotic plaques is highly important for investigating the mechanism of plaque rupture and thrombosis. However, current animal models involve complex operations, are costly, and have plaque morphologies that are different from those of humans. We aimed to establish a simple animal model of vulnerable plaques similar to those of humans. Rabbits were randomly divided into three groups. Group A was given a normal formula diet for 13 weeks. Group C underwent surgery on the intima of the right carotid artery with - 80 °C cryofluid-induced injury after 1 week of a high-fat diet and further feeding a 12-week high-fat diet. Group B underwent the same procedure as Group C but without the - 80 °C cryofluid. Serum lipid levels were detected via ELISA. The plaque morphology, stability and degree of stenosis were evaluated through hematoxylin-eosin (HE) staining, Masson trichrome staining, Elastica van Gieson staining (EVG), and oil red O staining. Macrophages and inflammatory factors in the plaques were assessed via immunohistochemical analysis. The serum low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C), triglyceride (TG), and total cholesterol (TC) levels in groups B and C were significantly greater than those in group A. No plaque formation was observed in group A. The plaques in group B were very small. In group C, obvious plaques were observed in the blood vessels, and the plaques exhibited a thin fibrous cap, a large lipid core, and partially visible neovascularization, which is consistent with the characteristics of vulnerable plaques. In the plaques of group C, a large number of macrophages were present, and matrix metalloproteinase 9 (MMP-9) and lectin-like oxidized LDL receptor 1 (LOX-1) were abundantly expressed. We successfully established a rabbit model of vulnerable carotid plaque similar to that of humans through the combination of cryofluid-induced endothelial injury and a high-fat diet, which is feasible and cost effective.

Citation: Lu H, et al. A novel rabbit model of atherosclerotic vulnerable plaque established by cryofluid-induced endothelial injury. A novel rabbit model of atherosclerotic vulnerable plaque established by cryofluid-induced endothelial injury. 2024; 14:9447. doi: 10.1038/s41598-024-60287-0

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38658774/
