PMID: 38669704
Title: Long-term efficacy of microendoscopic laminotomy for lumbar spinal stenosis in advanced degenerative spondylolisthesis with or without dynamic spinal instability: a propensity score-matching analysis.

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: In this study, the authors aimed to determine the mid- to long-term outcomes of microendoscopic laminotomy (MEL) for lumbar spinal stenosis (LSS) with degenerative spondylolisthesis (DS) and identify preoperative predictors of poor mid- to long-term outcomes.
METHODS: The authors retrospectively reviewed the medical records of 274 patients who underwent spinal MEL for symptomatic LSS. The minimum postoperative follow-up duration was 5 years. Patients were classified into two groups according to DS: those with DS (the DS+ group) and those without DS (the DS- group). The patients were subjected to propensity score matching based on sex, age, BMI, surgical segments, and preoperative leg pain visual analog scale scores. Clinical outcomes were evaluated 1 year and > 5 years after surgery.
RESULTS: Surgical outcomes of MEL for LSS were not significantly different between the DS+ and DS- groups at the final follow-up (mean 7.8 years) in terms of Oswestry Disability Index (p = 0.498), satisfaction (p = 0.913), and reoperation rate (p = 0.154). In the multivariate analysis, female sex (standard β -0.260), patients with slip angle > 5° in the forward bending position (standard β -0.313), and those with dynamic progression of Meyerding grade (standard β -0.325) were at a high risk of poor long-term outcomes.
CONCLUSIONS: MEL may have good long-term results in patients with DS without dynamic instability. Women with dynamic instability may require additional fusion surgery in approximately 25% of cases for a period of ≥ 5 years.

Citation: Murata S, et al. Long-term efficacy of microendoscopic laminotomy for lumbar spinal stenosis in advanced degenerative spondylolisthesis with or without dynamic spinal instability: a propensity score-matching analysis. Long-term efficacy of microendoscopic laminotomy for lumbar spinal stenosis in advanced degenerative spondylolisthesis with or without dynamic spinal instability: a propensity score-matching analysis. 2024; 41:9-16. doi: 10.3171/2024.2.SPINE231075

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38669704/
