PMID: 38663287
Title: A diagnostic challenge in cervical spine mass of spinal giant cell tumor mimicking tuberculosis: Case report.

Abstract: INTRODUCTION AND IMPORTANCE: There were many reported cases that misdiagnosed cervical tuberculosis because cervical tuberculosis can mimic the characteristics of benign tumours. In this case report, we are reporting a case of a giant cell tumor (GCT) that was misdiagnosed with cervical tuberculosis.
CASE PRESENTATION: A 24-year-old male came with a chief complaint of being unable to move his hands and feet four months before admission. Total collapse/ destruction of C3 vertebrae body. The MRI non-contrast result showed an anterior translation of VC2-3 and bilateral stenosis of the foraminal canal. The patient was suspected of cervical tuberculosis, and then the patient was planned for an Anterior Cervical Corpectomy and Fusion (ACCF). The gene X-pert MTB result is negative, and the histopathologic result showed the domination of multinucleated giant cells. The patient was reassessed with cervical GCT. The neurological function was significantly improved from Frankel B to Frankel D in the follow-up.
CLINICAL DISCUSSION: Spinal GCT was imitated both clinical and radiological of the spinal tuberculosis. Gene X-pert is the definitive diagnosis in cases of tuberculosis. The histopathologic analysis and Gene X-pert should be the main tools used to evaluate a lesion miming spinal tuberculosis.
CONCLUSION: With the availability of a wide range of diagnostic options, the appropriate selection of a diagnostic approach is one of the most important steps in patients with spinal tumours and mimicking lesions.

Citation: Febrian F and Hidayat AR. A diagnostic challenge in cervical spine mass of spinal giant cell tumor mimicking tuberculosis: Case report. A diagnostic challenge in cervical spine mass of spinal giant cell tumor mimicking tuberculosis: Case report. 2024; 118:109639. doi: 10.1016/j.ijscr.2024.109639

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38663287/
