PMID: 38662213
Title: Predictive role of ureteral wall thickness and patient characteristics in endoscopic treatment outcomes for ureteral stricture disease following stone surgery.

Abstract: PURPOSE: To evaluate the role of certain radiological parameters and patient characteristics in predicting the success of endoscopic treatment in ureteral stricture disease.
METHODS: Fifty one adult patients with ureteral stricture disease (< 1 cm) after developing due to upper ureteral stones with ureteroscopic laser disintegration were included and in addition to stone and patient parameters, radiological parameters including ureteral wall thickness (UWT) at the impacted stone site were also measured on computed tomography (CT) images. Patients were divided into two groups: Group 1: Patients with endoscopic treatment success and Group 2: Patients with endoscopic treatment failure. The possible relationship between the UWT values and other radiological parameter was comparatively evaluated.
RESULTS: Mean UWT value assessed at the treated stone site was significantly higher in cases unresponsive to endoscopic treatment with values of 2.77 ± 1.03 mm and 4.25 ± 1.32 mm in Group 1 and 2 respectively. A cut off value 3.55 mm for UWT was found to be highly predictive for endoscopic treatment failure.
CONCLUSIONS: Our current results indicated that assessment of UWT value at the obstructing stone could be helpful enough to predict the likelihood of failure following endoscopic management of strictures with high sensitivity and specificity. Evaluation of this particular parameter could let the endourologists to look for more rational treatment alternatives with necessary measures taken on time.

Citation: Sahin C, et al. Predictive role of ureteral wall thickness and patient characteristics in endoscopic treatment outcomes for ureteral stricture disease following stone surgery. Predictive role of ureteral wall thickness and patient characteristics in endoscopic treatment outcomes for ureteral stricture disease following stone surgery. 2024; 42:258. doi: 10.1007/s00345-024-04978-3

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38662213/
