PMID: 38666356
Title: Renal artery occlusion in a young woman - a tale of mysterious thrombosis.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Renal artery thrombosis is rare and limited reports exist in the young population. The most common aetiology is thromboembolic disease or abdominal trauma in this population and isolated occurrences are extremely rare. We present the case of an 18-year-old woman with spontaneous unilateral renal artery thrombosis and infarction for whom reperfusion was achieved through endovascular intervention. The aetiology of her thrombosis remains unclear and is under investigation with differential diagnoses being fibromuscular dysplasia, large and medium vessel vasculitis, and thromboembolic causes.
OBJECTIVE: To demonstrate the value in attempting salvage of an ischaemic kidney in a young patient with an unexplained spontaneous renal thrombosis.
METHOD: JM is an 18-year-old woman who presented to a large regional tertiary hospital with 3 days of right flank pain. She had no infective symptoms and no urinary or bowel changes before admission. She was not pregnant, and her only medication was the oral contraceptive pill commenced 3 months prior. A CT angiogram demonstrated right renal artery thrombosis with renal infarction. The kidney was deemed potentially salvageable, and ultrasound defined adequate vessel calibre to access for thrombectomy in the context of a negative coagulopathy screen.
RESULTS: The patient underwent thrombolysis, thrombectomy and balloon angioplasty. Intraoperatively, a thin segment of distal stenosis was identified, and angiogram reperfusion was achieved with subsequent improvement in renal function.
CONCLUSION: Renal artery thrombosis in young people is extremely rare and presents a diagnostic and management challenge requiring input from multiple teams including nephrology, rheumatology, paediatrics and vascular surgery. Systemic coagulopathy and vasculitis are differentials against anatomical aetiologies such as fibromuscular dysplasia. Our case adds to the limited literature regarding this in the young population. Renal artery thrombosis with occlusion in young people is very rare and is most often associated with a systemic coagulopathic disorder, such as antiphospholipid syndrome or structural pathology of the renal vasculature such as fibromuscular dysplasia. The work-up of a young female presenting with renal artery thrombosis without any previous medical history screens for a wide range of pathological processes.

Citation: Farley N, et al. Renal artery occlusion in a young woman - a tale of mysterious thrombosis. Renal artery occlusion in a young woman - a tale of mysterious thrombosis. 2024; (unknown volume):17085381241247906. doi: 10.1177/17085381241247906

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38666356/
