PMID: 38662539
Title: Update on applications of endoscopic cryotherapy in the gastrointestinal tract.

Abstract: PURPOSE OF REVIEW: Endoscopic cryotherapy has emerged as a minimally invasive procedure for targeted tissue ablation within the gastrointestinal tract. This review aims to provide a comprehensive overview of current clinical applications of EC with a review of the pertinent literature.
RECENT FINDINGS: Endoscopic cryotherapy has demonstrated safety and efficacy for various gastrointestinal conditions. Recent studies have highlighted the efficacy of endoscopic cryotherapy, including both liquid nitrogen-based spray cryotherapy and the novel cryoballoon focal ablation system, in achieving complete eradication of dysplasia and neoplasia in Barrett's esophagus. Endoscopic cryotherapy has also shown promise as a second-line treatment option for patients with dysplastic Barrett's esophagus refractory to radiofrequency ablation and as an alternative to surgical resection for duodenal adenomas, when endoscopic resection is not feasible. Innovative applications for the treatment of gastrointestinal bleeding and management of benign refractory esophageal strictures have also been reported.
SUMMARY: Endoscopic cryotherapy represents a safe, effective, and well tolerated therapeutic option for various clinical scenarios in gastrointestinal endoscopy, including challenging disease states such as refractory Barrett's esophagus and advanced esophageal cancer. Advancements in cryotherapy technology and ongoing research continue to explore additional clinical indications and expand the role of endoscopic cryotherapy in patient care with an aim toward improved patient outcomes.

Citation: Enslin S and Kaul V. Update on applications of endoscopic cryotherapy in the gastrointestinal tract. Update on applications of endoscopic cryotherapy in the gastrointestinal tract. 2024; 40:330-337. doi: 10.1097/MOG.0000000000001040

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38662539/
