PMID: 38679219
Title: The effect of the collateral cerebrovascular circulation on tolerance to carotid artery cross-clamping and on early outcome after carotid endarterectomy.

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: The Circle of Willis (CoW) serves as the primary source of contralateral blood supply in patients who undergo carotid artery cross-clamping (CC) for carotid endarterectomy (CEA). It has been suggested that the CoW's anatomy influences CEA outcomes. The aim of this study was to evaluate associations between the cerebral collateral circulation, a positive awake test for intraoperative neurologic deficit after carotid CC, and postoperative adverse neurologic events.
METHODS: A systematic review was conducted searching MEDLINE, Cochrane, and Web of Science databases for studies that assessed the cerebral circulation, including CoW variations, using neuroimaging techniques in patients who underwent carotid CC. For the metanalytical incidence, the statistical technique used was weight averaging. Otherwise, descriptive analysis was used due to the excessive heterogeneity of the studies.
RESULTS: Eight publications, seven cohort and one case-controlled study, involving 1313 patients who underwent carotid artery CC under loco-regional anesthesia, were included in the systematic review. The incidence of positive awake test in the cohort studies ranged from 4.4% to 19.7%. Carotid artery CC resulted in positive awake test in 5% to 91% of patients with alterations in the anterior portion and in 27% to 74% with alterations in the posterior portion of the CoW. A positive awake test in patients with contralateral carotid stenosis or occlusion ranged from 5.8% to 45.7%. Contralateral carotid stenosis >70% or occlusion were associated with a positive awake test (P < .001). Patients with incomplete CoW did not have statistically significant correlation with intraoperative neurological deficits after CC. Data were insufficient to evaluate the effect of the collateral circulation on early outcome after CEA.
CONCLUSIONS: In this systematic review, contralateral carotid artery stenosis or occlusion, but not CoW abnormalities, were associated with a positive awake test after carotid artery CC. Further research is needed to evaluate which specific CoW anomaly predicts neurologic deficit after CC and to confirm association between a positive awake test and clinical outcome after CEA.

Citation: Myrcha P, et al. The effect of the collateral cerebrovascular circulation on tolerance to carotid artery cross-clamping and on early outcome after carotid endarterectomy. The effect of the collateral cerebrovascular circulation on tolerance to carotid artery cross-clamping and on early outcome after carotid endarterectomy. 2024; 80:1603-1613.e6. doi: 10.1016/j.jvs.2024.04.052

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38679219/
