PMID: 38670202
Title: Gelatin/heparin coated bio-inspired polyurethane composite fibers to construct small-caliber artificial blood vessel grafts.

Abstract: Long-term patency and ability for revascularization remain challenges for small-caliber blood vessel grafts to treat cardiovascular diseases clinically. Here, a gelatin/heparin coated bio-inspired polyurethane composite fibers-based artificial blood vessel with continuous release of NO and biopeptides to regulate vascular tissue repair and maintain long-term patency is fabricated. A biodegradable polyurethane elastomer that can catalyze S-nitrosothiols in the blood to release NO is synthesized (NPU). Then, the NPU core-shell structured nanofiber grafts with requisite mechanical properties and biopeptide release for inflammation manipulation are fabricated by electrospinning and lyophilization. Finally, the surface of tubular NPU nanofiber grafts is coated with heparin/gelatin and crosslinked with glutaraldehyde to obtain small-caliber artificial blood vessels (ABVs) with the ability of vascular revascularization. We demonstrate that artificial blood vessel grafts promote the growth of endothelial cells but inhibit the growth of smooth muscle cells by the continuous release of NO; vascular grafts can regulate inflammatory balance for vascular tissue remodel without excessive collagen deposition through the release of biological peptides. Vascular grafts prevent thrombus and vascular stenosis to obtain long-term patency. Hence, our work paves a new way to develop small-caliber artificial blood vessel grafts that can maintain long-term patency in vivo and remodel vascular tissue successfully.

Citation: Xiang Z, et al. Gelatin/heparin coated bio-inspired polyurethane composite fibers to construct small-caliber artificial blood vessel grafts. Gelatin/heparin coated bio-inspired polyurethane composite fibers to construct small-caliber artificial blood vessel grafts. 2024; 269:131849. doi: 10.1016/j.ijbiomac.2024.131849

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38670202/
