PMID: 38673023
Title: Enhancing Frontal Sinus Surgery: Assessing the Long-Term Impact of Free Grafts and Flaps in Draf III Procedures.

Abstract: The frontal sinus medial drainage -Draf Type III (modified endoscopic Lothrop) procedure, has become a cornerstone in frontal sinus surgery over the last three decades. Despite its widespread acceptance, challenges such as restenosis and neo-ostium closure persist, prompting the exploration of various preventive techniques. In this retrospective study, we analyzed data from 111 patients who underwent the Draf III procedure between November 2015 and November 2023, with a mean follow-up period of 3 years and 11 months. Approximately two-thirds of patients (64%) had undergone previous sinus surgery and 16% a previous Draf III. Over half of the patients had inflammatory conditions, with the majority being chronic rhinosinusitis with nasal polyps (CRSwNP) (46%), while 15% were diagnosed with malignant sinonasal tumors, and 23% with benign sinonasal tumors, of which the commonest was osteoma, accounting for 14 cases. The mean follow-up period was 3 years and 11 months. We focused on evaluating the efficacy of mucosal flaps and free grafts in preventing neo-ostium closure. Although it appears that there is no statistically significant correlation between flap usage and the need for revision surgery or ostium patency maintenance overall, subgroup analysis highlighted the benefits of flap reconstruction in patients with chronic rhinosinusitis with nasal polyps. In this subgroup, the use of flaps or grafts reduced the rate of neo-ostium stenosis from 20% to 0% (p &lt; 0.05). Overall revision rate was 11.7%-however this was 8% in patients without acute inflammation at the time of surgery and went up to 31% in the presence of pus in the frontal recess (p = 0.02). This study contributes to the existing literature by providing insights into long-term outcomes, the enduring effectiveness of interventions in frontal sinus surgery, and especially the importance of taking into account the underlying pathology when assessing long-term outcomes.

Citation: Leventi A, et al. Enhancing Frontal Sinus Surgery: Assessing the Long-Term Impact of Free Grafts and Flaps in Draf III Procedures. Enhancing Frontal Sinus Surgery: Assessing the Long-Term Impact of Free Grafts and Flaps in Draf III Procedures. 2024; 14:(unknown pages). doi: 10.3390/jpm14040396

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38673023/
