PMID: 38670858
Title: Reducing fistula rate in hypospadias repair: A comparative study between standard tubularized incised plate repair and incorporation of a layer of spongiosum tissue.

Abstract: INTRODUCTION: The most prevalent complication in hypospadias repair is fistula formation. Adhering to the principle of providing urethroplasty coverage to mitigate fistula occurrence, we implemented a modification by integrating a spongiosum layer between the urethroplasty and the dartos flap. Our hypothesis posited that this approach would result in a reduced fistula formation rate.
METHODS: This study is a comparative analysis involving patients under 18 years of age who underwent primary hypospadias repair. The cases were allocated into two groups. In the study group, in addition to performing tubularized incised plate (TIP) repair, a spongiosum layer harvested from both sides of the urethra was used to cover the urethroplasty (modification of the Y-to-I urethroplasty). The control group underwent a standard TIP repair. The primary outcome was to assess urethrocutaneous fistula formation. Secondary outcomes included evaluating the development of meatal stenosis and glans dehiscence, along with assessing cosmetic results by the Hypospadias Objective Penile Evaluation (HOPE) score.
RESULTS: Overall, 154 hypospadias cases were included in the study. Eighty-seven patients (56%) were allocated to the study group, and 67 (44%) were allocated to the control group. Urethrocutaneous fistula developed in 3 (3.4%) and 11 (16.4%) patients in the study and control group, respectively (p = 0.006). Glans dehiscence occurred in 2 (2.3%) patients in the study group and 4 (6%) patients in the control group (p = 0.198). Meatal stenosis was observed in 4 (4.6%) patients in the study group and 5 (7.5%) patients in the control (p = 0.452). The mean HOPE score was 59 in both groups (p = 0.36).
DISCUSSION: This study details our encounters with the novel modification and compares the results with standard TIP. Our data suggest that adding a layer of spongiosum tissue over the urethroplasty reduces the complication of urethrocutaneous fistula without increasing the occurrence of dehiscence, significant meatal stenosis, or compromising cosmetic outcomes.
CONCLUSION: We advocate for implementing the described surgical modification as a viable option for hypospadias repair.

Citation: Schwarztuch Gildor O, et al. Reducing fistula rate in hypospadias repair: A comparative study between standard tubularized incised plate repair and incorporation of a layer of spongiosum tissue. Reducing fistula rate in hypospadias repair: A comparative study between standard tubularized incised plate repair and incorporation of a layer of spongiosum tissue. 2024; 20:675-679. doi: 10.1016/j.jpurol.2024.04.004

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38670858/
