PMID: 38671615
Title: Management of Pediatric Bilateral Vocal Fold Paralysis: A State-of-the-Art Review of Etiologies, Diagnosis, and Treatments.

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: This paper reviews the current literature about epidemiology, etiologies, diagnosis, and management of pediatric bilateral vocal fold paralysis (PBVFP).
METHODS: According to PRISMA statements, a narrative review of the current literature was conducted through the PubMed, Scopus, and Cochrane Library databases about the epidemiology, etiologies, diagnosis, and management of PBVFP.
RESULTS: PBVCP is the second most common congenital laryngeal anomaly in the pediatric population, accounting for 10% to 20% of pediatric laryngeal conditions. PBVCP is related to idiopathic (42.2%), congenital (19.7%), and neurological (16.9%) conditions. A tracheotomy is required in 60% of cases regarding stridor and dyspnea, which are the most prevalent symptoms. The diagnosis is based on the etiological features, clinical presentation, laryngoscopic findings, and objective examinations. Laryngeal electromyography may be used to support the diagnosis in difficult cases, but its reliability depends on the practitioner's experience. The primary differential diagnosis is posterior glottis stenosis, which needs to be excluded regarding therapeutic and management differences with PBVCP. Transient surgical procedures consist of tracheotomy or laterofixation of the vocal fold. Current permanent procedures include uni- or bilateral partial arytenoidectomy, posterior transverse cordotomy, cricoid splits, and laryngeal selective reinnervation. There is no evidence of the superiority of some procedures over others.
CONCLUSIONS: PBVCP is the second most common laryngeal disorder in the pediatric population. Diagnosis is based on etiological and clinical findings and may require the use of laryngeal electromyography. Therapeutic management may involve several transient or permanent surgical procedures that are associated with overall subjective improvements in symptoms, laryngeal findings, and low complication rates.

Citation: Lechien JR. Management of Pediatric Bilateral Vocal Fold Paralysis: A State-of-the-Art Review of Etiologies, Diagnosis, and Treatments. Management of Pediatric Bilateral Vocal Fold Paralysis: A State-of-the-Art Review of Etiologies, Diagnosis, and Treatments. 2024; 11:(unknown pages). doi: 10.3390/children11040398

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38671615/
