PMID: 38673658
Title: Quantification of Aortic Valve Calcification in Contrast-Enhanced Computed Tomography.

Abstract: Background: The goal of our study is to evaluate a method to quantify aortic valve calcification (AVC) in contrast-enhanced computed tomography for patients with suspected severe aortic stenosis pre-interventionally. Methods: A total of sixty-five patients with aortic stenosis underwent both a native and a contrast-enhanced computed tomography (CECT) scan of the aortic valve (45 in the training cohort and 20 in the validation cohort) using a standardized protocol. Aortic valve calcification was semi-automatically quantified via the Agatston score method for the native scans and was used as a reference. For contrast-enhanced computed tomography, a calcium threshold of the Hounsfield units of the aorta plus four times the standard deviation was used. Results: For the quantification of aortic valve calcification in contrast-enhanced computed tomography, a conversion formula (691 + 1.83 x AVCCECT) was derived via a linear regression model in the training cohort. The validation in the second cohort showed high agreement for this conversion formula with no significant proportional bias (Bland-Altman, p = 0.055) and with an intraclass correlation coefficient in the validation cohort of 0.915 (confidence interval 95% 0.786-0.966) p &lt; 0.001. Conclusions: Calcium scoring in patients with aortic valve stenosis can be performed using contrast-enhanced computed tomography with high validity. Using a conversion factor led to an excellent agreement, thereby obviating an additional native computed tomography scan. This might contribute to a decrease in radiation exposure.

Citation: Laohachewin D, et al. Quantification of Aortic Valve Calcification in Contrast-Enhanced Computed Tomography. Quantification of Aortic Valve Calcification in Contrast-Enhanced Computed Tomography. 2024; 13:(unknown pages). doi: 10.3390/jcm13082386

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38673658/
