PMID: 38678801
Title: Choice of suture technique may mitigate figure-of-8 deformity in slide tracheoplasty.

Abstract: OBJECTIVES: To demonstrate varying degrees of immediate postoperative figure of 8 deformity following three different methods of tracheal suturing.
STUDY DESIGN: Comparative ex-vivo study.
METHODS: A fresh, unfixed rabbit trachea was harvested and bisected at its midpoint. The posterior membranous trachea was excised from both segments to mimic the anatomy of complete tracheal rings following longitudinal release. A slide tracheoplasty was performed on the same tracheal segments as an internal control, using three different methods of closure: simple running, running horizontal mattress, and a modified baseball stitch. Endoscopic and external photographs were taken immediately following repair to document the effect of closure technique on external and endoluminal anatomy.
RESULTS: A simple running closure, in which traveling occurs between needle passes, showed the greatest degree of postoperative figure of 8 deformity. A running horizontal mattress suture closure showed less deformity and a modified running closure, in which traveling occurs within needle passes, showed the least deformity.
CONCLUSIONS: Our study suggests that a minor modification of standard running closure techniques may help limit the common figure-of-8 deformity often noted following slide tracheoplasty.
LAY SUMMARY: Figure of-8 deformity is a problem that can occur when repairing a narrow trachea referred to as tracheal stenosis. This deformity may be prevented using particular suture techniques which may decrease the likelihood that the trachea becomes blocked again following repair.

Citation: Sheffield CD, et al. Choice of suture technique may mitigate figure-of-8 deformity in slide tracheoplasty. Choice of suture technique may mitigate figure-of-8 deformity in slide tracheoplasty. 2024; 45:104318. doi: 10.1016/j.amjoto.2024.104318

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38678801/
