PMID: 38686895
Title: Perioperative Risk of Noncardiac Surgery in Patients With Asymptomatic Significant Aortic Stenosis: A 10-Year Retrospective Study.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Aortic stenosis (AS) is a representative geriatric disease, and there is an anticipated rise in the number of patients requiring noncardiac surgeries in patients with AS. However, there is still a lack of research on the primary predictors of noncardiac perioperative complications in patients with asymptomatic significant AS.
METHODS AND RESULTS: Among the cohort of noncardiac surgeries under general anesthesia, with an intermediate to high risk of surgery from 2011 to 2019, at Samsung Medical Center, 221 patients were identified to have asymptomatic significant AS. First, to examine the impact of significant AS on perioperative adverse events, the occurrences of major adverse cardiovascular events and perioperative adverse cardiovascular events were compared between patients with asymptomatic significant AS and the control group. Second, to identify the factors influencing the perioperative adverse events in patients with asymptomatic significant AS, a least absolute shrinkage and selection operator regression model was used. There was no significant difference between the control group and the asymptomatic significant AS group in the event rate of major adverse cardiovascular events (4.6% at control group versus 5.5% at asymptomatic significant AS group; P=0.608) and perioperative adverse cardiovascular events (13.8% at control group versus 18.3% at asymptomatic significant AS group; P=0.130). Cardiac damage stage was a significant risk factor of major adverse cardiovascular events and perioperative adverse cardiovascular events.
CONCLUSIONS: There was no significant difference in major postoperative cardiovascular events between patients with asymptomatic significant AS and the control group. Advanced cardiac damage stage in significant AS is an important factor in perioperative risk of noncardiac surgery.

Citation: Bak M, et al. Perioperative Risk of Noncardiac Surgery in Patients With Asymptomatic Significant Aortic Stenosis: A 10-Year Retrospective Study. Perioperative Risk of Noncardiac Surgery in Patients With Asymptomatic Significant Aortic Stenosis: A 10-Year Retrospective Study. 2024; 13:e032675. doi: 10.1161/JAHA.123.032675

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38686895/
