PMID: 38688090
Title: First reported long-term two- and three-dimensional echocardiographic follow-up with histopathological analysis of a transcatheter pulmonary valve implantation in a pet dog.

Abstract: Transcatheter pulmonary valve implantation (TPVI) is indicated for use in the management of failing pulmonary valves in humans. We report here the long-term follow-up of the first documented transcatheter pulmonary valve implanted in a client-owned dog. A one-year-old Beagle dog with severe congenital type A valvular pulmonic stenosis first underwent percutaneous balloon pulmonary valvuloplasty, leading two years later to severe pulmonary regurgitation. A TPVI using a Melody™ bioprosthetic valve was then successfully performed, with normalization of the right heart cavities. Repeated two- and three-dimensional transthoracic echocardiographic examinations combined with Doppler modes confirmed the appropriate position and function of the valve for four years. Mitral myxomatous valvular degeneration led to refractory left-sided congestive heart failure, and the dog was humanely euthanized. After postmortem examination, X-ray imaging and histopathological evaluation of the stent and the valve were performed. Ex-vivo imaging of the implanted valve using a Faxitron® Path radiography system and microscopic evaluation of the implanted stent and bioprosthetic leaflets did not show any relevant leaflet or stent alterations. This case provides a proof of concept in interventional veterinary cardiology, showing that TPVI can be performed in dogs with subsequent long-term maintaining normal pulmonary valve function.

Citation: Terrade G, et al. First reported long-term two- and three-dimensional echocardiographic follow-up with histopathological analysis of a transcatheter pulmonary valve implantation in a pet dog. First reported long-term two- and three-dimensional echocardiographic follow-up with histopathological analysis of a transcatheter pulmonary valve implantation in a pet dog. 2024; 53:52-59. doi: 10.1016/j.jvc.2024.04.001

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38688090/
