PMID: 38681895
Title: Measurement and Incorporation of Laryngeal Motion Using cine-MRI on an MR-Linear Accelerator to Generate Radiation Therapy Plans for Early-stage Squamous Cell Cancers of the Glottis.

Abstract: PURPOSE: Swallow-related motion of the larynx is most significant in the cranio-caudal directions and of` short duration. Conventional target definition for radical radiation therapy includes coverage of the whole larynx. This study longitudinally examined respiration- and swallow-related laryngeal motions using cine-magnetic resonance imaging. We further analyzed the dosimetry to organs at risk by comparing 3D-conformal radiation therapy (3D-CRT), volumetric modulated arc therapy (VMAT), and intensity modulated radiation therapy (IMRT) techniques.
METHODS: Fifteen patients with T1-2 N0 glottic squamous cell carcinomas were prospectively recruited for up to 3 cine-MRI scans on the Elekta Unity MR-Linear accelerator, at the beginning, middle, and end of a course of radical radiation therapy. Swallow frequency and motion of the hyoid bone, cricoid and thyroid cartilages, and vocal cords were recorded during swallow and rest. Adapted treatment volumes consisted of gross tumor volume + 0.5-1 cm to a clinical target volume with an additional internal target volume (ITV) for personalized resting-motion. Swallow-related motion was deemed infrequent and was not accounted for in the ITV. We compared radiation therapy plans for 3D-CRT (whole larynx), VMAT (whole larynx), and VMAT and IMRT (ITV for resting motion).
RESULTS: Resting- and swallow-related motions were most prominent in the cranio-caudal plane. There were no significant changes in the magnitude of motion over the course of radiation therapy. There was a trend of a progressive reduction in the frequency of swallow. Treatment of partial larynx volumes with intensity modulated methods significantly reduced the dose to carotid arteries, compared with treatment of whole larynx volumes. Robustness analysis demonstrated that when accounting for intrafraction swallow, the total dose delivered to the ITV/planning target volume was maintained at above 95%.
CONCLUSIONS: Swallow-related motions are infrequent and accounting for resting motion in an ITV is sufficient. VMAT/IMRT techniques that treat more conformal targets can significantly spare critical organs at risk such as the carotid arteries and thyroid gland, potentially reducing the risk of carotid artery stenosis-related complications and other long-term complications.

Citation: Gupta A, et al. Measurement and Incorporation of Laryngeal Motion Using cine-MRI on an MR-Linear Accelerator to Generate Radiation Therapy Plans for Early-stage Squamous Cell Cancers of the Glottis. Measurement and Incorporation of Laryngeal Motion Using cine-MRI on an MR-Linear Accelerator to Generate Radiation Therapy Plans for Early-stage Squamous Cell Cancers of the Glottis. 2024; 9:101490. doi: 10.1016/j.adro.2024.101490

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38681895/
