PMID: 38683446
Title: Myocardial biomechanical effects of fetal aortic valvuloplasty.

Abstract: Fetal critical aortic stenosis with evolving hypoplastic left heart syndrome (CAS-eHLHS) can progress to a univentricular (UV) birth malformation. Catheter-based fetal aortic valvuloplasty (FAV) can resolve stenosis and reduce the likelihood of malformation progression. However, we have limited understanding of the biomechanical impact of FAV and subsequent LV responses. Therefore, we performed image-based finite element (FE) modeling of 4 CAS-eHLHS fetal hearts, by performing iterative simulations to match image-based characteristics and then back-computing physiological parameters. We used pre-FAV simulations to conduct virtual FAV (vFAV) and compared pre-FAV and post-FAV simulations. vFAV simulations generally enabled partial restoration of several physiological features toward healthy levels, including increased stroke volume and myocardial strains, reduced aortic valve (AV) and mitral valve regurgitation (MVr) velocities, reduced LV and LA pressures, and reduced peak myofiber stress. FAV often leads to aortic valve regurgitation (AVr). Our simulations showed that AVr could compromise LV and LA depressurization but it could also significantly increase stroke volume and myocardial deformational stimuli. Post-FAV scans and simulations showed FAV enabled only partial reduction of the AV dissipative coefficient. Furthermore, LV contractility and peripheral vascular resistance could change in response to FAV, preventing decreases in AV velocity and LV pressure, compared with what would be anticipated from stenosis relief. This suggested that case-specific post-FAV modeling is required to fully capture cardiac functionality. Overall, image-based FE modeling could provide mechanistic details of the effects of FAV, but computational prediction of acute outcomes was difficult due to a patient-dependent physiological response to FAV.

Citation: Green L, et al. Myocardial biomechanical effects of fetal aortic valvuloplasty. Myocardial biomechanical effects of fetal aortic valvuloplasty. 2024; 23:1433-1448. doi: 10.1007/s10237-024-01848-0

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38683446/
