PMID: 38687349
Title: Association between pre-treatment with statin and its inhibitory effect on the onset of coronary artery disease at the time of coronary computed tomography angiography: a new look at an old medication.

Abstract: Coronary artery stenosis is often advanced by the time coronary computed tomography angiography (CCTA). Statins are the most important anti-lipidemic medication for improving the prognosis of coronary artery disease (CAD) patients. Although lipid-lowering therapy using statins appears to have been established as a method for preventing CAD, there remains the problem that CAD cannot be completely suppressed. In this study, we investigated whether pre-treatment with statin could significantly inhibit the onset of CAD when patients received CCTA for screening of CAD. The subjects were 1164 patients who underwent CCTA as screening for CAD. CAD was diagnosed when 50% or more coronary stenosis was present in the coronary arteries. Patient backgrounds were investigated by age, gender, body mass index, coronary risk factors [family history of cardiovascular diseases, smoking history, hypertension (HTN), diabetes mellitus (DM), dyslipidemia, chronic kidney disease (CKD) or metabolic sydrome] and medications. Patients were classified into two groups according to the presence or absence of statin pre-administration during CCTA [statin (-) group (n = 804) and (+) group (n = 360)]. Compared with the statin (-) group, the statin (+) group was significantly older and had higher rates of family history, HTN, and DM. The statin (+) group had a significantly higher % CAD than the statin (-) group. Serum levels of low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) were significantly lower in the statin (+) group than in the statin (-) group. There was no significant difference in either high-density lipoprotein cholesterol levels or triglyceride levels between the two groups. Age, male gender, HTN, DM and pre-treatment with statin were all associated with CAD (+) in all patients. In addition, factors that contributed to CAD (+) in the statin (-) group were age, male gender, and DM, and factors that contributed to CAD (+) in the statin (+) group were age, smoking, HTN and % maximum dose of statin. At the time of CCTA, the statin (+) group had a high rate of CAD and coronary artery stenosis progressed despite a reduction of LDL-C levels. To prevent the onset of CAD, in addition to strict control of other coronary risk factors (HTN etc.), further LDL cholesterol-lowering therapy may be necessary.

Citation: Miura-Takahashi E, et al. Association between pre-treatment with statin and its inhibitory effect on the onset of coronary artery disease at the time of coronary computed tomography angiography: a new look at an old medication. Association between pre-treatment with statin and its inhibitory effect on the onset of coronary artery disease at the time of coronary computed tomography angiography: a new look at an old medication. 2024; 39:845-856. doi: 10.1007/s00380-024-02407-4

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38687349/
