PMID: 38682469
Title: Comparison of the outcomes of concurrent versus staged TAVR combined with PCI in patients with severe aortic stenosis and coronary artery disease: a systematic review and meta-analysis.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: The optimal timing for percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) in patients undergoing transcatheter aortic valve replacement (TAVR) remains uncertain. This research aims to evaluate the results of patients diagnosed with severe aortic valve stenosis and coronary artery disease who undergo either simultaneous or staged PCI therapy during TAVR procedures.
METHODS: We retrieved all relevant studies from our self-constructed databases up to January 2, 2024, encompassing databases such as Embase, Medline, Cochrane Library, and PubMed.
RESULTS: A total of nine studies were included, and the results showed that both surgical modalities had good safety profiles in the early and long-term stages. For early endpoint events, the risk of all-cause mortality and major bleeding within 30 years was similar in the staged TAVR + PCI and the contemporaneous TAVR + PCI ( P > 0.05). Additionally, the risk of myocardial infarction, stroke, acute kidney injury and pacemaker implantation within 30 days or perioperatively is similar ( P > 0.05). For long-term endpoint events, the risk of all-cause mortality, myocardial infarction and stroke was similar in the two groups at ≥2 years ( P > 0.05).
CONCLUSION: In patients undergoing TAVR who required coronary revascularization, no significant differences were observed in the early and long-term outcomes between those receiving concurrent TAVR and PCI versus staged surgery.

Citation: Zhang X, et al. Comparison of the outcomes of concurrent versus staged TAVR combined with PCI in patients with severe aortic stenosis and coronary artery disease: a systematic review and meta-analysis. Comparison of the outcomes of concurrent versus staged TAVR combined with PCI in patients with severe aortic stenosis and coronary artery disease: a systematic review and meta-analysis. 2024; 35:481-489. doi: 10.1097/MCA.0000000000001373

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38682469/
