PMID: 38699089
Title: A Rare Occurrence of Spontaneous Coronary Artery Dissection in Elderly: Diagnostic Challenges and Clinical Implications.

Abstract: Spontaneous coronary artery dissection (SCAD) is the ripping of the epicardial coronary artery wall without any trauma, coronary procedures, or rupture of atherosclerotic plaque. Intimal rip, intramural hematoma, and false lumen formation are the hallmarks of this disease, which may result in coronary blood flow obstruction and myocardial ischemia. The role of SCAD in acute coronary syndrome (ACS), and sudden death has come to light more and more, particularly in young females and those with few typical atherosclerotic risk factors. This study details a 65-year-old female with a history of hypertension, hyperlipidemia, asthma, and chronic kidney disease who presented with severe chest pain and elevated troponin levels. Upon investigation, spontaneous dissection of the left anterior descending artery (LAD) involving its mid and distal segments was identified. The present case highlights a rare occurrence of spontaneous coronary artery dissection (SCAD) in a demographic typically unaffected by the condition - females aged 65 years and over. The atypical presentation underscores the importance of reporting such cases to prevent oversight. This patient's case is particularly noteworthy as it deviates from the typical predisposing factors associated with SCAD, such as youth, pregnancy, or stressors. Additionally, the case is unique in that it presented both SCAD and imaging findings consistent with takotsubo cardiomyopathy, suggesting a complex cardiac pathology deserving of further study and consideration.

Citation: Haddad AW, et al. A Rare Occurrence of Spontaneous Coronary Artery Dissection in Elderly: Diagnostic Challenges and Clinical Implications. A Rare Occurrence of Spontaneous Coronary Artery Dissection in Elderly: Diagnostic Challenges and Clinical Implications. 2024; 16:e57464. doi: 10.7759/cureus.57464

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38699089/
