PMID: 38697400
Title: Screening for cardiac amyloidosis in patients with tenosynovial red flags: A collaboration between family medicine and cardiology.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Amyloid deposition in tenosynovial structures precedes cardiac involvement up to 20 years. Therefore, a cardiological screening in patients with a history of tenosynovial manifestations of cardiac amyloidosis (CA) could lead to an increased number of early diagnoses.
METHODS: Patients with tenosynovial manifestations of CA (carpal tunnel syndrome, atraumatic biceps tendon rupture, lumbar spinal stenosis) have been identified by general practitioners and evaluated in a Referral Center for CA. Patients with a high suspicion of CA underwent the CA diagnostic pathway.
RESULTS: Among 50 General Practitioners (GP) contacted, 10 (20%) agreed to participate in the study for a total of 5615 patients ≥60 years. One hundred forty-five patients met the inclusion criteria, 2 of them already had a diagnosis of CA, and 57 agreed to undergo a cardiological evaluation (electrocardiography, echocardiography, NTproBNP assay). The median age was 73 [67-80] years and 31 (54%) were women. Eight patients were suggested to start the CA diagnostic pathway, five of them underwent a complete diagnostic evaluation for CA, three refused to complete the diagnostic exams and no new diagnoses were made.
CONCLUSION: A screening program for CA in patients with tenosynovial manifestations identified by general practitioners is feasible, but may not yield a high rate of new diagnosis. In this study, we identified two patients who already had a diagnosis of CA, and among patients at high risk for CA, 37% refused to complete the diagnostic pathway. Increased awareness of CA among patients might increase participation and diagnostic yield in screening studies. Further validation of this protocol is needed to evaluate its diagnostic performance.

Citation: Andrei V, et al. Screening for cardiac amyloidosis in patients with tenosynovial red flags: A collaboration between family medicine and cardiology. Screening for cardiac amyloidosis in patients with tenosynovial red flags: A collaboration between family medicine and cardiology. 2024; 407:132114. doi: 10.1016/j.ijcard.2024.132114

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38697400/
