PMID: 38690831
Title: Fibrostricturing Crohn's Disease Is Marked by an Increase in Active Eosinophils in the Deeper Layers.

Abstract: INTRODUCTION: Approximately 50% of patients with Crohn's disease (CD) develop intestinal strictures necessitating surgery. The immune cell distribution in these strictures remains uncharacterized. We aimed to identify the immune cells in intestinal strictures of patients with CD.
METHODS: During ileocolonic resections, transmural sections of terminal ileum were sampled from 25 patients with CD and 10 non-inflammatory bowel disease controls. Macroscopically unaffected, fibrostenotic, and inflamed ileum was collected and analyzed for immune cell distribution (flow cytometry) and protein expression. Collagen deposition was assessed through a Masson Trichrome staining. Eosinophil and fibroblast colocalization was assessed through immunohistochemistry.
RESULTS: The Masson Trichrome staining confirmed augmented collagen deposition in both the fibrotic and the inflamed regions, though with a significant increased collagen deposition in the fibrotic compared with inflamed tissue. Distinct Th1, Th2, regulatory T cells, dendritic cells, and monocytes were identified in fibrotic and inflamed CD ileum compared with unaffected ileum of patients with CD as non-inflammatory bowel disease controls. Only minor differences were observed between fibrotic and inflamed tissue, with more active eosinophils in fibrotic deeper layers and increased eosinophil cationic protein expression in inflamed deeper layers. Last, no differences in eosinophil and fibroblast colocalization were observed between the different regions.
DISCUSSION: This study characterized immune cell distribution and protein expression in fibrotic and inflamed ileal tissue of patients with CD. Immunologic, proteomic, and histological data suggest inflammation and fibrosis are intertwined, with a large overlap between both tissue types. However strikingly, we did identify an increased presence of active eosinophils only in the fibrotic deeper layers, suggesting their potential role in fibrosis development.

Citation: Jacobs I, et al. Fibrostricturing Crohn's Disease Is Marked by an Increase in Active Eosinophils in the Deeper Layers. Fibrostricturing Crohn's Disease Is Marked by an Increase in Active Eosinophils in the Deeper Layers. 2024; 15:e00706. doi: 10.14309/ctg.0000000000000706

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38690831/
