PMID: 38709382
Title: Persistent intracranial steno-occlusion from calcified embolism: a treatment challenge.

Abstract: INTRODUCTION: Calcified arterial cerebral embolism is a rare occurrence among large and medium vessel occlusions causing ischemic stroke and its diagnosis and treatment is a challenge. The sources of calcified embolism might be a calcific atheroma from the aortic arch and carotid artery, but also heart valve disease has been reported in the literature. Calcified embolism is frequently simultaneous on multiple vascular territories. The prognosis of patients is usually poor, including patients treated by using endovascular thrombectomy (EVT) and this diagnosis could be easily missed in the acute phase. In addition, the optimal secondary prevention has not been yet fully stated.
METHODS: We are presenting two cases of acute stroke due to calcified embolism in the middle cerebral artery (MCA) coming from a complicated carotid atheroma, non-stenosing in the first case (a 49 years old man) and stenosing in the second case (a 71 years old man) without clinical indications to intravenous thrombolysis and/or EVT, extensively investigated in the acute phase and followed-up for over 12 months with a favorable clinical course and the persisting steno-occlusion in the involved MCA. In both cases, antiplatelet treatment and targeting of vascular risk factors were done without recurrences in the follow-up period.
DISCUSSION: Cerebral calcified embolism has been reported in 5.9% of cases of acute ischemic stroke in a single center series and only in 1.2% of a large retrospective cohort of EVT-treated patients. In both series the prognosis was poor and only one third of EVT-treated patients had functional independence at 3-months follow-up. The natural history of these subtype of ischemic stroke is relatively poorly understood and both etiological diagnosis and treatment have not yet defined. It is possible that some cases might be underdiagnosed and underreported.
CONCLUSIONS: Calcified cerebral embolism is a rare cause of stroke, but it is largely underreported and both acute phase and secondary preventive treatment have to be defined.

Citation: Zedde M, et al. Persistent intracranial steno-occlusion from calcified embolism: a treatment challenge. Persistent intracranial steno-occlusion from calcified embolism: a treatment challenge. 2024; 45:4037-4042. doi: 10.1007/s10072-024-07575-9

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38709382/
