PMID: 38705085
Title: Echocardiographic findings in apparently healthy Czechoslovakian wolfdogs.

Abstract: INTRODUCTION: To echocardiographically evaluate a large number of apparently healthy Czechoslovakian wolfdogs (CWDs) to identify possible subclinical cardiac abnormalities and to generate reference intervals.
ANIMALS: One-hundred and seventeen apparently healthy client-owned CWDs.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Standard two-dimensional, M-mode, and Doppler echocardiographic measurements were obtained on non-sedated, manually restrained standing dogs. Animals with no relevant echocardiographic abnormalities were used to generate reference intervals. Echocardiographic variables were compared between males and females and between dogs with and without mitral regurgitation (MR).
RESULTS AND DISCUSSION: Among the 117 CWDs, 103 dogs were used to generate reference intervals. The 14 dogs with abnormalities had more than trivial MR (12 dogs), subaortic stenosis (one dog), and equivocal subaortic stenosis (one dog). The 44 males were heavier than 59 females (P<0.001) and had a larger maximum left atrial dimension (P=0.015), left ventricular internal dimension at end-diastole (P<0.001) and systole (P<0.001), and thicker interventricular septum thickness at end-diastole (P=0.016). A positive linear correlation was identified between bodyweight and aortic root and left atrial diameters and left ventricular dimensions and between age and aortic root and left atrial diameter and peak late transmitral flow velocity. A negative linear correlation was identified between age and peak early transmitral flow velocity and the ratio between peak early and late transmitral flow velocities. No differences in echocardiographic-derived cardiac dimensions were detected between healthy dogs and dogs with more than trivial MR.
CONCLUSIONS: In this population of CWDs, subclinical cardiac abnormalities were uncommon, and they were mainly classified as MR.

Citation: Ivasovic F, et al. Echocardiographic findings in apparently healthy Czechoslovakian wolfdogs. Echocardiographic findings in apparently healthy Czechoslovakian wolfdogs. 2024; 53:60-71. doi: 10.1016/j.jvc.2024.04.002

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38705085/
