PMID: 38706999
Title: A Rare Case of Severe Mitral Stenosis Presenting As Cardiogenic Shock.

Abstract: We report a case of severe mitral stenosis (MS) in a 58-year-old female from Guyana. Though rheumatic MS continues to be less prevalent in third-world countries, it poses a significant threat as far as morbidity and mortality are concerned. The modern definition of "Third World" is used to classify countries that are poor or developing. Countries that are part of the "third world" are generally characterized by (1) high rates of poverty, (2) economic and/or political instability, and (3) high mortality. The standard method of diagnosing MS in patients has been established as transthoracic echocardiograms (TTE), along with pertinent historical and physical exam findings. Specifically, with TTE, criteria include a mitral valve area ≤1.5 cm2, severe left atrial enlargement, and elevated pulmonary artery systolic pressure &gt;50 millimeters of mercury (mmHg). Once diagnosed with severe MS, treatment options for patients range from non-surgical percutaneous mitral balloon valvuloplasty to surgical mitral valve commissurotomy. In our case, she was a 58-year-old female with a past medical history of seizures of unknown etiology, not on any home medication regimen, presenting to the emergency department with shortness of breath, malaise, weight loss, and bilateral lower leg edema. Vitals were significant for tachycardia at 153 bpm, tachypnea at 24 breaths per minute, and saturating at 96% on room air. On the physical exam, there was an irregularly irregular rhythm, bilateral crackles at the bases, right upper quadrant tenderness to palpation, bilateral pitting edema, and no calf tenderness. Lab findings were significant for elevated brain natriuretic peptide, but three electrocardiograms were performed in the emergency department, all confirming the new onset of atrial fibrillation. A CT angiogram of the chest was performed, which ruled out pulmonary embolus but additionally found marked reflux of contrast noted within the inferior vena cava and hepatic veins, along with right atrial dilation reflective of right heart strain; additionally, mitral valve calcifications were noted. The cardiologist on duty confirmed the diagnosis using point-of-care ultrasound (POCUS) followed by TTE; the patient was rapidly transferred to a hospital with appropriate services for surgical management within the same day of arrival at the emergency department. This case highlights the importance of bedside POCUS as an additional diagnostic tool for cardiologists, along with pertinent history, physical examination findings, and laboratory findings. Proper utilization of POCUS can allow for the immediate diagnosis of severe pathologies and prevent the delay of appropriate treatment, as seen in our case. Wider adoption of POCUS practices as a part of the general initial evaluation of patients has not yet been recommended by the American Heart Association but can offer clinical benefit in morbidity/mortality with expedited progression to appropriate treatment.

Citation: Garcia Reinoso L and John S. A Rare Case of Severe Mitral Stenosis Presenting As Cardiogenic Shock. A Rare Case of Severe Mitral Stenosis Presenting As Cardiogenic Shock. 2024; 16:e57627. doi: 10.7759/cureus.57627

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38706999/
