PMID: 38701807
Title: [Esophageal stenosis as a result of a right aortic arch in 2 cats].

Abstract: A 3-month-old and a 4-year-old cat were presented in the clinic due to regurgitation. The kitten had displayed the symptoms since it had been fed solid foods and was smaller than the litter mates. The 4-year-old cat showed sudden-onset symptoms for 5 days prior to presentation and had a good general condition. Positive contrast thoracic radiographs of both cats in lateral recumbency showed an esophageal dilatation cranial to the heart base and raised a suspicion of foreign material with soft tissue density in this area. In the 4-year-old cat, findings of ventrodorsal thoracic radiographs were compatible with a dextroposition of the aorta and a slightly marked focal left curve of the trachea. The echocardiographic examination of the kitten pictured a right sided aorta, hence a vascular ring anomaly with a dextroposition from the aorta was suspected. Aberrant blood flow as it is seen in a persistent ductus arteriosus was not apparent in the echocardiography. As a result of the sudden development of the clinical signs in the older cat without displaying any former history of regurgitation, an esophagoscopy was performed to exclude an intraluminal esophageal cause for the stricture as well as to extract the foreign material. In this cat, computed tomography imaging also displayed an aberrant left subclavian artery. Both cats recovered well after surgical correction.The diagnosis of a ring anomaly in the kitten via echocardiography is a rare situation. As is the diagnosis of a high-grade esophageal stricture due to a vascular ring anomaly at the age of 4 without a former history of regurgitation.Recovery was excellent in the younger cat. There were no signs of regurgitation 6 months after surgery. The adult cat was in good general condition without clinical symptoms according to the owners when presented for stitch removal. Unfortunately, the adult cat was lost to follow up.

Citation: Mackus L, et al. [Esophageal stenosis as a result of a right aortic arch in 2 cats]. [Esophageal stenosis as a result of a right aortic arch in 2 cats]. 2024; 52:117-124. doi: 10.1055/a-2289-1234

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38701807/
