PMID: 38701696
Title: Numerical study of hemodynamic flow in the aortic vessel of Williams syndrome patient with congenital heart disease.

Abstract: Congenital arterial stenosis such as supravalvar aortic stenosis (SVAS) are highly prevalent in Williams syndrome (WS) and other arteriopathies pose a substantial health risk. Conventional tools for severity assessment, including clinical findings and pressure gradient estimations, often fall short due to their susceptibility to transient physiological changes and disease stage influences. Moreover, in the pediatric population, the severity of these and other congenital heart defects (CHDs) often restricts the applicability of invasive techniques for obtaining crucial physiological data. Conversely, evaluating CHDs and their progression requires a comprehensive understanding of intracardiac blood flow. Current imaging modalities, such as blood speckle imaging (BSI) and four-dimensional magnetic resonance imaging (4D MRI) face limitations in resolving flow data, especially in cases of elevated flow velocities. To address these challenges, we devised a computational framework employing zero-dimensional (0D) lumped parameter models coupled with patient-specific reconstructed geometries pre- and post-surgical intervention to execute computational fluid dynamic (CFD) simulations. This framework facilitates the analysis and visualization of intricate blood flow patterns, offering insights into geometry and flow dynamics alterations impacting cardiac function. In this study, we aim to assess the efficacy of surgical intervention in correcting an extreme aortic defect in a patient with WS, leading to reductions in wall shear stress (WSS), maximum velocity magnitude, pressure drop, and ultimately a decrease in cardiac workload.

Citation: Jack JT, et al. Numerical study of hemodynamic flow in the aortic vessel of Williams syndrome patient with congenital heart disease. Numerical study of hemodynamic flow in the aortic vessel of Williams syndrome patient with congenital heart disease. 2024; 168:112124. doi: 10.1016/j.jbiomech.2024.112124

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38701696/
