PMID: 38700484
Title: Fibrosis-related Transcriptome Unveils a Distinctive Remodelling Matrix Pattern in Penetrating Ileal Crohn's Disease.

Abstract: BACKGROUND AND AIMS: Stricturing [B2] and penetrating [B3] ileal Crohn's disease have been reported to present similar levels of histopathological transmural fibrosis. This study aimed to compare the fibrosis-related transcriptomic profiles of penetrating and stricturing ileal Crohn's disease.
METHODS: Using Nanostring technology and comparative bioinformatics, we analysed the expression of 787 fibrosis-related genes in 36 ileal surgical specimens, 12 B2 and 24 B3, the latter including 12 cases with associated stricture[s] [B3s] and 12 without [B3o]. Quality control of extracted RNA was performed according to Nanostring parameters and principal component analysis for the distribution analysis. For the selection of the differentially expressed genes, a p-adjusted <0.05 and fold change ≤-1.5 or ≥1.5 were adopted. Quantitative polymerase chain reaction (qPCR) and immunohistochemistry analyses were used to validate selected differentially expressed genes.
RESULTS: We included 34 patients with B2 and B3 phenotypes, balanced for age at diagnosis, age at surgery, gender, Crohn's disease localisation, perianal disease, and therapy. Inflammation and fibrosis histopathological scoring were similar in all cases. B2 and B3 groups showed a very good clustering regarding 30 significantly differentially expressed genes, all being remarkably upregulated in B3. More than half of these genes were involved in Crohn's disease fibrogenesis, and eight differentially expressed genes were so in other organs. The most significantly active biological processes and pathways in penetrating disease were response to TGFβ and matrix organisation and degradation, as validated by immunohistochemistry.
CONCLUSIONS: Despite the histopathological similarities in fibrosis between stricturing and penetrating ileal Crohn's disease, their fibrosis-related transcriptomic profiles are distinct. Penetrating disease exhibits a distinctive transcriptomic landscape related to enhanced matrix remodelling.

Citation: Tavares de Sousa H, et al. Fibrosis-related Transcriptome Unveils a Distinctive Remodelling Matrix Pattern in Penetrating Ileal Crohn's Disease. Fibrosis-related Transcriptome Unveils a Distinctive Remodelling Matrix Pattern in Penetrating Ileal Crohn's Disease. 2024; 18:1741-1752. doi: 10.1093/ecco-jcc/jjae064

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38700484/
