PMID: 38701260
Title: Analysis of clinical features and prognostic factors in Takayasu arteritis involving pulmonary hypertension: A retrospective study.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Multiple takayasu arteritis (TA) is a chronic nonspecific large to medium vasculitis disease that mainly accumulates the aorta and its branches. Pulmonary vascular disease is often seen as stenosis and occlusion, and patients may show no moderate to severe pulmonary hypertension (PH). This study aims to summarize the clinical characteristics and analysis of prognostic factors in patients with PH caused by TA.
METHODS: Patients diagnosed with aortitis involving the pulmonary artery by pulmonary arteriography or pulmonary artery and total aortic computed tomography arteriography (CTA). All patients underwent detailed clinical assessment, laboratory data collection, and analysis of imaging data. Patients were followed up and factors affecting the prognosis of the pulmonary arteries were analyzed.
RESULTS: Most of the patients' complaints were chest tightness, shortness of breath, decreased activity tolerance, hemoptysis and chest pain. 56.90% of the patients were in at the time of admission. Echocardiographic estimation of pulmonary artery systolic pressure was 90.39 ± 22.87 mm Hg. In terms of laboratory tests, 39.66%% of the patients had elevated C-reactive protein and erythrocyte sedimentation rate, and amino-terminal natriuretic peptide precursor on admission. In terms of imaging, all patients had pulmonary artery involvement, which was combined with aortic involvement in 31.03%. Nuclide lung perfusion/ventilation imaging of the patients revealed multiple perfusion defects/absences in the segmental and subsegmental distribution of the lungs. Univariate Cox regression model analysis suggested that patients' WHO functional class at admission, age ≧ 51 years at the time of consultation, and amino-terminal natriuretic peptide precursor ≧ 3500 pg/mL were factors affecting the prognosis. Further multifactorial Cox regression model analysis suggested amino-terminal natriuretic peptide precursor ≧ 3500 pg/mL was an independent predictor of poor prognosis with a hazard ratio (HR) value of 5.248.
CONCLUSION: Electrocardiogram and echocardiogram may suggest an increased right heart load; some patients have elevated serum inflammatory indexes. Characteristic imaging manifestations include widening of the main pulmonary artery, multiple pulmonary segmental and subsegmental stenoses.

Citation: Wang J, et al. Analysis of clinical features and prognostic factors in Takayasu arteritis involving pulmonary hypertension: A retrospective study. Analysis of clinical features and prognostic factors in Takayasu arteritis involving pulmonary hypertension: A retrospective study. 2024; 103:e37992. doi: 10.1097/MD.0000000000037992

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38701260/
