PMID: 38704573
Title: The impact of nursing interventions on the rehabilitation outcome of patients after lumbar spine surgery.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: This study aimed to investigate the impact of nursing interventions on the rehabilitation outcomes of patients after lumbar spine surgery and to provide effective references for future postoperative care for patients undergoing lumbar spine surgery.
METHODS: The study included two groups: a control group receiving routine care and an observation group receiving additional comprehensive nursing care. The comprehensive care encompassed postoperative rehabilitation, pain, psychological, dietary management, and discharge planning. The Visual Analogue Scale (VAS), Oswestry Disability Index (ODI), Short-Form 36 (SF-36) Health Survey, self-rating depression scale (SDS) and self-rating anxiety scale(SAS) were used to assess physiological and psychological recovery. Blood albumin, haemoglobin, neutrophil counts, white blood cell counts, red blood cell counts, inflammatory markers (IL-6, IL-10, and IFN-γ) were measured, and the incidence of postoperative adverse reactions was also recorded.
RESULTS: Patients in the observation group exhibited significantly improved VAS, ODI, SF-36, SDS and SAS scores assessments post-intervention compared to the control group (P < 0.05). Moreover, levels of IL-6, IL-10, and IFN-γ were more favorable in the observation group post-intervention (P < 0.05), indicating a reduction in inflammatory response. There was no significant difference in the incidence of postoperative adverse reactions between the groups (P > 0.05), suggesting that the comprehensive nursing interventions did not increase the risk of adverse effects.
CONCLUSION: Comprehensive nursing interventions have a significant impact on the postoperative recovery outcomes of patients with LSS, alleviating pain, reducing inflammation levels, and improving the overall quality of patient recovery without increasing the patient burden. Therefore, in clinical practice, it is important to focus on comprehensive nursing interventions for patients with LSS to improve their recovery outcomes and quality of life.

Citation: Liang J, et al. The impact of nursing interventions on the rehabilitation outcome of patients after lumbar spine surgery. The impact of nursing interventions on the rehabilitation outcome of patients after lumbar spine surgery. 2024; 25:354. doi: 10.1186/s12891-024-07419-9

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38704573/
