PMID: 38707070
Title: Pediococcus pentosaceus Endocarditis in a Patient With Recent Transcatheter Aortic Valve Implantation and Liver Cirrhosis: A Case Report and Review of the Literature.

Abstract: Transcatheter aortic valve implantation (TAVI) is increasingly being used in the management of severe aortic stenosis, mainly in older and/or medically compromised patients, due to its minimally invasive nature. As in any valve replacement procedure, endocarditis is a recognized complication, more so in TAVI patients, in whom comorbidities are highly prevalent. We report the case of a 70-year-old male with a history of liver cirrhosis and a recent TAVI, who presented with recurrent fever and sustainedPediococcus pentosaceus bacteremia. The diagnosis of endocarditis was delayed, as the microorganism was initially discarded as a contaminant, given that Pediococci are rarely described as human pathogens. However, in cirrhotic patients, microbiota may cause intermittent bacteremia and thereby affect prosthetic valves. Transthoracic echocardiography was not helpful in validating the diagnosis, as is often the case in TAVI patients. Transesophageal echocardiography was deemed perilous, due to esophageal varices complicating the underlying cirrhosis. Therefore, endocarditis diagnosis was based on sustained bacteremia and Duke's criteria, including the presence of high fever, a predisposing cardiac lesion, splenic infarction, and the exclusion of an alternative diagnosis. Moreover, cirrhosis enhanced the side effects of treatment and led to the need for regimen changes and prolonged hospitalization. Given the precariousness of the situation, confirmation of treatment success by 2-deoxy-2-[fluorine-18]fluoro-D-glucose positron emission tomography-computed tomography (18F-FDG PET-CT) scan was sought. This is the first reported case of Pediococcus TAVI endocarditis in a cirrhotic patient, highlighting the unique challenges in the diagnosis and management of TAVI endocarditis in patients with co-existing conditions.

Citation: Mantzios PG, et al. Pediococcus pentosaceus Endocarditis in a Patient With Recent Transcatheter Aortic Valve Implantation and Liver Cirrhosis: A Case Report and Review of the Literature. Pediococcus pentosaceus Endocarditis in a Patient With Recent Transcatheter Aortic Valve Implantation and Liver Cirrhosis: A Case Report and Review of the Literature. 2024; 16:e57509. doi: 10.7759/cureus.57509

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38707070/
