PMID: 38703614
Title: Duodenal stenosis in adult malrotation: When Ladd procedure is not enough: A case report.

Abstract: INTRODUCTION: Congenital causes of duodenal obstruction can be grouped into intrinsic and extrinsic causes. The degree of obstruction caused by such etiologies determines the severity and timing of symptom presentation. Early neonatal diagnosis is common in patients with etiologies that present with high degrees of obstruction such as atresia whereas etiologies that cause lesser degrees of obstruction such as malrotation and duodenal stenosis can go undiagnosed into adulthood.
PRESENTATION OF CASE: We report a case of a 24-year-old female who presented with acute on chronic abdominal pain with bilious vomiting. She was diagnosed with intermittent small bowel volvulus which resolved spontaneously but was found to have adult intestinal malrotation diagnosed intraoperatively. She had a Ladd procedure done but had persistent obstructive small bowel symptoms after the Ladd procedure. She was found to have duodenal stenosis from fibrosis of the duodenum on relaparotomy which was treated surgically with Heineke-Mikulicz strictureplasty leading to total resolution of symptoms.
DISCUSSION: Congenital extrinsic and intrinsic causes of partial duodenal obstruction such as Ladd bands in malrotation and duodenal stenosis respectively, can co-exist and persist into adulthood due to their lesser symptomatology and degree of obstruction. Surgical treatment must identify and correct both conditions when they co-exist to ensure complete resolution of symptoms.
CONCLUSION: This case report highlights the association of duodenal stenosis with adult malrotation which may account for persistent symptoms after the Ladd procedure and suggests the use of Heineke-Mikulicz strictureplasty as a complementary procedure for complete symptom resolution.

Citation: Akomea-Agyin E, et al. Duodenal stenosis in adult malrotation: When Ladd procedure is not enough: A case report. Duodenal stenosis in adult malrotation: When Ladd procedure is not enough: A case report. 2024; 119:109713. doi: 10.1016/j.ijscr.2024.109713

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38703614/
