PMID: 38708961
Title: Diagnostic value of cervical vascular ultrasound in large arterial lesions of the neck in patients with transient ischemic attack.

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: To assess the diagnostic value of cervical vascular ultrasound in identifying large arterial lesions in patients with transient ischemic attack (TIA).
METHODS: The current study matched 84 TIA patients (disease group) with 66 healthy controls (control group). The baseline patient profiles and biochemical indices of the patients were analyzed. All patients received color Doppler ultrasonography, and outcome measures of its diagnostic efficiency included plaque status, plaque properties, and the degree of carotid stenosis. The patients in the disease group were assigned to group A (TIA of the internal carotid artery system, n = 40) and group B (TIA of the vertebrobasilar artery system, n = 44), and the plaque distribution of the patients was analyzed.
RESULTS: TIA patients had higher rates of diabetes, hypertension, hyperlipidemia, obesity, and smoking compared to controls (p &lt; 0.05). Their serum TC, LDL-C, and FBG levels were significantly elevated, while HDL-C levels were decreased (p &lt; 0.05). TIA patients had more plaques, especially soft plaques, than controls (p &lt; 0.05). They also showed higher rates of moderate to severe carotid stenosis (p &lt; 0.05). TIA involving the internal carotid artery system was associated with a higher risk of plaques at the entrance of the subclavian artery compared to TIA involving the vertebrobasilar artery system (p &lt; 0.05).
CONCLUSION: The diagnostic value of cervical vascular ultrasound in patients with TIA is remarkable, and it provides a reliable monitoring approach as well as an essential screening modality for TIA. The rational use of this technique will markedly benefit the diagnosis, treatment, and prevention of TIA.

Citation: Zhang J, et al. Diagnostic value of cervical vascular ultrasound in large arterial lesions of the neck in patients with transient ischemic attack. Diagnostic value of cervical vascular ultrasound in large arterial lesions of the neck in patients with transient ischemic attack. 2024; (unknown volume):1-7. doi: 10.1080/00207454.2024.2352041

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38708961/
