PMID: 38710405
Title: Are Chiari Malformation and Basilar Invagination Associated with Jugular Foramen Stenosis?

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: We compared the diameter of the jugular foramen (JF) between normal individuals and those with a diagnosis of craniovertebral junction abnormalities, such as Chiari malformation type I (CMI) and/or basilar invagination (BI).
METHODS: This cross-sectional analytical study measured the diameter of the right and left JF on magnetic resonance imaging scans of patients divided into 4 groups: 68 with combined CMI and BI (CMI+BI), 42 with isolated BI, 45 with isolated CMI, and 102 control cases. The t test determined sex differences, and univariate analysis of variance with Tukey's post hoc test assessed JF differences between groups.
RESULTS: Considering all combinations of laterality and sex, the CMI+BI group had a JF narrower than their respective control groups. The JF was bilaterally narrower in the BI group than in the control group only in the women. Regardless of laterality, the CMI group had a wider JF than did the CMI+BI group in men and did not differ from that of the control group. In the female patients with CMI, the right JF did not differ from that of the controls and was wider than that in the CMI+BI group. Also, the left JF was narrower than that in the control group and did not differ from that in the CMI+BI group.
CONCLUSIONS: JF narrowing is associated with CMI and BI when combined in the same patient. When CMI or BI are detected separately, they do not imply evident changes in JF morphometry. It is expected that these findings could bring empiric substrate to support theories that claim a possible role of intracranial pressure disturbances as a triggering factor for CMI.

Citation: Barros DPM, et al. Are Chiari Malformation and Basilar Invagination Associated with Jugular Foramen Stenosis?. Are Chiari Malformation and Basilar Invagination Associated with Jugular Foramen Stenosis?. 2024; 187:e832-e838. doi: 10.1016/j.wneu.2024.04.172

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38710405/
