PMID: 38729011
Title: Evaluation of clinical predictors of postoperative outcomes in tegmen defect patients with and without concurrent superior semicircular canal dehiscence and cerebrospinal fluid leak.

Abstract: OBJECTIVES: Tegmen and superior semicircular canal defects have been well studied, yet the factors contributing to their onset and progression are widely debated. The clinical utility of intraoperative intracranial pressure measurements has yet to be tested. This report aims to use intraoperative opening pressure and concurrent superior semicircular canal dehiscence (SSCD) to analyze factors influencing disease course and clinical outcomes in patients with tegmen dehiscence.
METHODS: A retrospective analysis of 61 patients who underwent tegmen defect repair was performed. Multiple variables of interest including body mass index (BMI), presence of SSCD, presence of dural venous sinus stenosis, opening pressure, and acetazolamide therapy use were recorded. The cohort was divided into those with or without concurrent SSCD and those presenting with or without cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) leak for analysis.
RESULTS: A linear relationship between opening pressure and BMI (p = 0.009) was noted; however, intraoperative opening pressure was not associated with disease outcome. Concurrent SSCD was present in 25 % of patients, while 62 % presented with CSF leak. The concurrent SSCD group exhibited higher opening pressure, higher likelihood of having dural sinus stenosis, and higher likelihood of being discharged on acetazolamide. The CSF leak group had higher likelihood of obstructive sleep apnea and persistent symptoms.
CONCLUSIONS: In patients undergoing tegmen defect repair, concurrent SSCD suggests increased disease severity. The presence of preoperative CSF leak predicts persistent symptoms following repair. BMI is linearly correlated with intracranial pressure in these patients.

Citation: Plute T, et al. Evaluation of clinical predictors of postoperative outcomes in tegmen defect patients with and without concurrent superior semicircular canal dehiscence and cerebrospinal fluid leak. Evaluation of clinical predictors of postoperative outcomes in tegmen defect patients with and without concurrent superior semicircular canal dehiscence and cerebrospinal fluid leak. 2024; 45:104317. doi: 10.1016/j.amjoto.2024.104317

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38729011/
