PMID: 38729550
Title: Randomized comparison of TAVI valves: The Compare-TAVI trial.

Abstract: INTRODUCTION: Based on technical advancements and clinical evidence, transcatheter aortic valve implantation (TAVI) has been widely adopted. New generation TAVI valve platforms are continually being developed. Ideally, new valves should be superior or at least non-inferior regarding efficacy and safety, when compared to best-in-practice contemporary TAVI valves.
METHODS AND ANALYSIS: The Compare-TAVI trial (ClinicalTrials.gov NCT04443023) was launched in 2020, to perform a 1:1 randomized comparison of new vs contemporary TAVI valves, preferably in all comers. Consecutive cohorts will be launched with sample sizes depending on the choice of interim analyses, expected event rates, and chosen superiority or non-inferiority margins. Enrollment has just been finalized in cohort B, comparing the Sapien 3/Sapien 3 Ultra Transcatheter Heart Valve (THV) series (Edwards Lifesciences, Irvine, California, USA) and the Myval/Myval Octacor THV series (Meril Life Sciences Pvt. Ltd., Vapi, Gujarat, India) balloon expandable valves. This non-inferiority study was aimed to include 1062 patients. The 1-year composite safety and efficacy endpoint comprises death, stroke, moderate-severe aortic regurgitation, and moderate-severe valve deterioration. Patients will be followed until withdrawal of consent, death, or completion of 10-year follow-up, whichever comes first. Secondary endpoints will be monitored at 30 days, 1, 3, 5, and 10 years.
SUMMARY: The Compare-TAVI organization will launch consecutive cohorts wherein patients scheduled for TAVI are randomized to one of two valves. The aim is to ensure that the short- and long-term performance and safety of new valves being introduced is benchmarked against what achieved by best-in-practice contemporary valves.

Citation: Terkelsen CJ, et al. Randomized comparison of TAVI valves: The Compare-TAVI trial. Randomized comparison of TAVI valves: The Compare-TAVI trial. 2024; 274:84-94. doi: 10.1016/j.ahj.2024.05.003

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38729550/
