PMID: 38729278
Title: Recent updates on asymptomatic and symptomatic aortic valve stenosis its diagnosis, pathogenesis, management and future perspectives.

Abstract: Aortic stenosis (AS) is very common in mid-aged and elderly patients, and it has been reported to have a negative impact on both short and long-term survival with a high mortality rate. The current study identified methods of diagnosis, incidence, and causes of AS, pathogenesis, intervention and management and future perspectives of Asymptomatic and Symptomatic Aortic stenosis. A systematic literature search was conducted using PubMed, Scopus and CINAHL, using the Mesh terms and key words "Aortic stenosis", "diagnostic criteria", "pathogenesis", "incidence and causes of AS" and" intervention and management strategies". Studies were retained for review after meeting strict inclusion criteria that included studies evaluating Asymptomatic and Symptomatic AS. Studies were excluded if duplicate publication, overlap of patients, subgroup studies of a main study, lack of data on AS severity, case reports and letters to editors. Forty-five articles were selected for inclusion. Incidence of AS across the studies ranged from 3 % to 7 %. Many factors have been associated with incidence and increased risk of AS, highest incidence of AS was described after aortic valve calcification, rheumatic heart disease, degenerative aortic valve disease, bicuspid aortic valve and other factors. AS is common and can be predicted by aortic root calcification volume, rheumatic heart disease, degenerative aortic valve disease, bicuspid aortic valve. Intervention and management for AS patients is a complex decision that takes into consideration multiple factors. On the other hand, there is not enough progress in preventive pharmacotherapy to slow the progression of AS.

Citation: Sandeep B, et al. Recent updates on asymptomatic and symptomatic aortic valve stenosis its diagnosis, pathogenesis, management and future perspectives. Recent updates on asymptomatic and symptomatic aortic valve stenosis its diagnosis, pathogenesis, management and future perspectives. 2024; 49:102631. doi: 10.1016/j.cpcardiol.2024.102631

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38729278/
