PMID: 38731245
Title: Endovascular Recanalization and Carotid Stenting: The New Approach to Restore Cerebral Perfusion during Aortic Dissection.

Abstract: UNLABELLED: A type A aortic dissection (TAAD) is a dangerous condition requiring emergency surgery. Due to the similarity of the symptoms of cerebral malperfusion in TAAD and the signs of ischemic stroke, a differential diagnosis of these diseases is not always available. Patients with TAAD after cerebral malperfusion can have a neurological deficit. Thrombolysis is performed in this case. It can worsen the patient's condition and increase the risk of mortality and disability. The aim of the study is to evaluate the new approach to restoring cerebral perfusion during aortic dissection. This approach includes endovascular recanalization and carotid stenting.
METHODS: Two clinical cases of TAAD complicated by cerebral malperfusion are described. The first patient is 73 years old and was admitted as planned to perform transcatheter aortic valve implantation (TAVI) for grade III aortic stenosis. The patient underwent transcatheter aortic valve implantation (TAVI) on the second day after admission. The second patient is 60 years old and was hospitalized by an ambulance with strong hypertension and ischemia. The surgical correction of aortic dissection was postponed until the neurological status assessment in both patients.
RESULTS: The surgery to correct the aorta dissection was deemed inappropriate. The carotid arteries have been reanalyzed, and cerebral perfusion has been restored in a short time in both patients.
CONCLUSION: Acute bilateral internal carotid occlusion is a potentially fatal TAAD outcome. Emergency endovascular recanalization and carotid stenting may be considered one of the few ways to restore cerebral perfusion.

Citation: Agarkov M, et al. Endovascular Recanalization and Carotid Stenting: The New Approach to Restore Cerebral Perfusion during Aortic Dissection. Endovascular Recanalization and Carotid Stenting: The New Approach to Restore Cerebral Perfusion during Aortic Dissection. 2024; 13:(unknown pages). doi: 10.3390/jcm13092716

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38731245/
