PMID: 38739321
Title: Cardiac screening in pediatric patients with neurofibromatosis type 1: similarities with Noonan syndrome?

Abstract: UNLABELLED: Both Neurofibromatosis type 1 (NF1) and Noonan syndrome (NS) are RASopathies. Characteristic cardiac phenotypes of NS, including specific electrocardiographic changes, pulmonary valve stenosis and hypertrophic cardiomyopathy have not been completely studied in NF1.
PURPOSE: The aims of this study were to assess: (1) similarities in the prevalence and types of ECG and conventional echocardiographic findings described in NS in asymptomatic patients with NF1, and (2) the presence of discrete myocardial dysfunction in NF1 patients using myocardial strain imaging.
METHODS: Fifty-eight patients with NF1 (ages 0-18 years), and thirty-one age-matched healthy controls underwent cardiac assessment including blood pressure measurements, a 12-lead ECG, and detailed echocardiography. Quantification of cardiac chamber size, mass and function were measured using conventional echocardiography. Myocardial strain parameters were assessed using 2-Dimensional (2D) Speckle tracking echocardiography.
RESULTS: Asymptomatic patients with NF1 had normal electrocardiograms, none with the typical ECG patterns described in NS. However, patients with NF1 showed significantly decreased calculated Z scores of the left ventricular internal diameter in diastole and systole, reduced left ventricular mass index and a higher incidence of cardiac abnormal findings, mainly of the mitral valve, in contrast to the frequently described types of cardiac abnormalities in NS. Peak and end systolic global circumferential strain were the only significantly reduced speckle tracking derived myocardial strain parameter.
CONCLUSIONS: Children with NF1 demonstrated more dissimilarities than similarities in the prevalence and types of ECG and conventional echocardiographic findings described in NS. The role of the abnormal myocardial strain parameter needs to be explored.

Citation: Kapusta L, et al. Cardiac screening in pediatric patients with neurofibromatosis type 1: similarities with Noonan syndrome?. Cardiac screening in pediatric patients with neurofibromatosis type 1: similarities with Noonan syndrome?. 2024; 40:1475-1482. doi: 10.1007/s10554-024-03125-8

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38739321/
