PMID: 38735750
Title: [A rare case of intraductal tumor of the pancreas in which an intraductal tubulopapillary neoplasm was mixed with a widely spreading gastric-type intraductal papillary-mucinous neoplasm].

Abstract: A 70-year-old man receiving treatment for diabetes mellitus presented with a cystic mass in the border area of the pancreatic body and tail on plain computed tomography (CT) due to impaired glucose intolerance. Contrast-enhanced CT showed a faint hyperattenuated nodular mass extending from the dilated main pancreatic duct (MPD) to the branch duct. Endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography revealed a mildly dilated orifice of the papilla of Vater and MPD stenosis with entire upstream and immediate downstream dilatations. The patient underwent distal pancreatectomy due to the suspicion of mixed-type intraductal papillary-mucinous carcinoma. A pathological examination showed an intraductal solid-nodular mass measuring 25mm in length, consisting of two types of neoplasms. One showed tubulopapillary growth with entirely high-grade (HG) atypical cuboidal epithelium, in which immunohistochemical examinations were positive for MUC6 but negative for human gastric mucin (HGM), MUC1, MUC2, and MUC5AC, fitting the concept of intraductal tubulopapillary neoplasm (ITPN). The other showed the same growth of low-grade (LG) atypical columnar cells positive for HGM and MUC5AC and negative for MUC1 and MUC2, which corresponded to gastric-type intraductal papillary-mucinous neoplasm (IPMN) -LG. The tumor had not invaded the duct walls, and no metastatic lymph nodes were observed. The ITPN was adjacent to the IPMN mainly composed of tubular glands mimicking pyloric glands with LG dysplasia that corresponded to the so-called IPMN-pyloric gland variant. Moreover, the proliferation of low-papillary gastric-type IPMN spread around the intraductal tumors. Consequently, the patient was diagnosed with an intraductal tubular neoplasm comprising a noninvasive ITPN and gastric-type IPMN-LG. ITPN is a recently identified intraductal neoplasm of the pancreas proposed by Yamaguchi et al. and is distinguished by intraductal tubulopapillary growth with HG cellular atypia without overt mucin production, in contrast to IPMN. To date, no cases of intraductal nodular tumors comprising ITPN and IPMN have been reported. We report this original case with imaging and pathological observations and discuss potential processes via which ITPN and IPMN may arise adjacent to each other in the same pancreatic duct.

Citation: Wakabayashi T, et al. [A rare case of intraductal tumor of the pancreas in which an intraductal tubulopapillary neoplasm was mixed with a widely spreading gastric-type intraductal papillary-mucinous neoplasm]. [A rare case of intraductal tumor of the pancreas in which an intraductal tubulopapillary neoplasm was mixed with a widely spreading gastric-type intraductal papillary-mucinous neoplasm]. 2024; 121:415-424. doi: 10.11405/nisshoshi.121.415

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38735750/
