PMID: 38734523
Title: Analysis of Google Searches in Laryngology: Where Do People Look and Are the Answers They Find Credible?

Abstract: OBJECTIVES: Patients recently diagnosed with a new medical condition frequently search the internet to learn about their diagnosis. We aimed to identify specific questions people ask regarding common laryngological diagnoses by evaluating "People Also Ask" (PAA) questions generated by Google, search volume of these diagnoses, and to determine if the sources accessed were credible.
STUDY DESIGN: Descriptive study.
METHODS: The terms "subglottic stenosis" (SS), "Zenker's diverticulum" (ZD), "vocal fold paralysis" (VFP), and related terms were entered into Google. PAA questions and associated websites were then extracted using Ahrefs software. Questions were categorized into specific topics. Websites were categorized by type and then assessed using the Journal of the American Medical Association (JAMA) benchmark criteria. A search engine optimization tool was used to determine search volume for individual topics.
RESULTS: One hundred and forty-four PAA questions (SS n = 52, ZD n = 49, and VFP n = 43) and their associated websites were extracted. Inquiries were most related to disease etiology (34%), management (27.1%), and signs/symptoms (16.7%). Sources most commonly linked to PAA questions were academic (37.6%), government (25.6%), and commercial (16.2%) websites, while medical practice (7.69%), single surgeon (3.42%), and social media (9.40%) websites were less frequently referenced. JAMA scores were highest for government websites (mean 3.35, standard deviation = 0.54) and lowest for academic websites (mean 0.77, standard deviation = 0.14).
CONCLUSIONS: The most asked questions regarding SS, ZD, and VFP are related to etiology and management. Academic medical institution websites are most frequently viewed to answer these questions. Therefore, academic laryngological professionals should ensure the information on their websites is current and accurate.

Citation: Lancaster B, et al. Analysis of Google Searches in Laryngology: Where Do People Look and Are the Answers They Find Credible?. Analysis of Google Searches in Laryngology: Where Do People Look and Are the Answers They Find Credible?. 2024; (unknown volume):(unknown pages). doi: 10.1016/j.jvoice.2024.04.022

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38734523/
