PMID: 38744247
Title: Efficacy of Cricoid Pressure Application during Esophagogastroduodenoscopy in Patients with Poor Gastric Wall Extension.

Abstract: INTRODUCTION: Esophagogastroduodenoscopy (EGD) requires adequate air infusion. However, cases of poor gastrointestinal wall extension due to frequent eructation have been reported. Sufficient gastrointestinal wall extension can be achieved by applying cricoid pressure during EGD. Herein, we evaluated the frequency of cases with poor gastrointestinal wall extension and the efficacy and safety of applying cricoid pressure during EGD.
METHODS: This interventional study included patients who underwent EGD between January 2020 and December 2020 at the JA Akita Koseiren Yuri Kumiai General Hospital. Cases wherein folds of the greater curvature of the upper gastric body were not sufficiently extended during EGD were considered to have poor gastrointestinal wall extension. In such cases, air infusion was performed while applying cricoid pressure. This procedure was considered effective when gastric wall extension was achieved.
RESULTS: A total of 2,000 patients were enrolled and underwent upper gastrointestinal endoscopy; however, five were excluded because of upper gastrointestinal tract stenosis. Observation of gastric wall extension of the greater curvature in the upper gastric body with normal air insufflation was difficult in 113 (5.7%) cases. Applying cricoid pressure was effective in 93 (82.3%) patients with poor gastric wall extension. Sufficient gastric wall extension was achieved within an average of 12.8 s in cases where cricoid pressure application was effective. No adverse events were associated with cricoid pressure application.
CONCLUSIONS: Cricoid pressure application for patients with poor gastric wall extension during EGD is useful for ensuring a sufficient field of view during observation of the gastric body.

Citation: Horii T, et al. Efficacy of Cricoid Pressure Application during Esophagogastroduodenoscopy in Patients with Poor Gastric Wall Extension. Efficacy of Cricoid Pressure Application during Esophagogastroduodenoscopy in Patients with Poor Gastric Wall Extension. 2024; 105:291-298. doi: 10.1159/000539318

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38744247/
