PMID: 38743099
Title: [Guideline for the management of symptomatic and asymptomatic internal carotid artery stenosis].

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Stenoses of the internal carotid artery (ICA) with a ≥ 50% degree of stenosis are common in the German population with a prevalence of approx. 4.2%. Furthermore, about 15% of ischemic strokes are due to stenosis or occlusion of the ICA. There are currently three approaches to the treatment of ICA stenoses: conventional therapy, endovascular treatment and surgical treatment.
METHODS: Summary of the S3 guideline on the diagnosis, treatment and follow-up of extracranial carotid stenosis from 3 February 2020.
RESULTS: Color-coded duplex sonography, computed tomography (CT) angiography and magnetic resonance (MR) angiography and, in exceptional cases, diagnostic subtraction angiography can be used to diagnose ICA stenoses, including the stenosis grade. The classification is into symptomatic and asymptomatic ICA stenoses. ICA stenoses can be treated conservatively, endovascularly with stenting or surgically by carotid endarterectomy. Invasive treatment should be carried out under inpatient conditions, whereby the hospital stay should be kept as short as possible. Color-coded duplex sonography should be performed regularly before discharge and at regular intervals thereafter to detect recurrent stenosis at an early stage and, if necessary, to initiate further invasive therapy.
CONCLUSIONS: When choosing the treatment modality, particular attention must be paid to whether the stenosis is symptomatic or asymptomatic and the degree of stenosis. The S3 guideline on the diagnosis, treatment and follow-up of extracranial carotid stenosis from 3 February 2020 provides guidance here.

Citation: Haffner MN. [Guideline for the management of symptomatic and asymptomatic internal carotid artery stenosis]. [Guideline for the management of symptomatic and asymptomatic internal carotid artery stenosis]. 2024; 64:710-715. doi: 10.1007/s00117-024-01309-w

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38743099/
