PMID: 38743145
Title: Triplicated middle cerebral arteries (duplicated and ipsilateral accessory) associated with triplicated anterior cerebral arteries (accessory) diagnosed by magnetic resonance angiography.

Abstract: PURPOSE: To describe a case of duplicated middle cerebral artery (MCA) combined with ipsilateral accessory MCA, forming a triplicated MCA, associated with the accessory anterior cerebral artery (ACA), forming a triplicated A2 segment of the ACA detected incidentally on magnetic resonance (MR) angiography.
METHODS: A 70-year-old woman with internal carotid artery (ICA) stenosis at the origin, which was detected by ultrasound, underwent cranial MR imaging and MR angiography of the intracranial region for an evaluation of brain and cerebral arterial lesions. The MR machine was a 3-Tesla scanner. MR angiography was performed using a standard 3-dimensional time-of-flight technique.
RESULTS: Multiple ischemic white matter lesions are observed. No significant stenotic lesions were observed in intracranial arteries. The right duplicated MCA was originated from right distal ICA. And main MCA was originated from right ICA bifurcation. Right accessory MCA was arisen from the A2 segment of the right ACA. Thus, the right MCA was triplicated. There was also an accessory ACA forming a triplicated ACA at its A2 segment. These findings were clearly identified on partial volume-rendering (VR) images.
CONCLUSION: We herein report a case of triplicated MCA associated with triplicated ACA. MCA variations are relatively rare, and this is the third case of triplicated MCA reported in relevant English-language literature. To identify multiple cerebral arterial variations, creating partial VR images using MR angiographic source images is useful.

Citation: Uchino A and Tokushige K. Triplicated middle cerebral arteries (duplicated and ipsilateral accessory) associated with triplicated anterior cerebral arteries (accessory) diagnosed by magnetic resonance angiography. Triplicated middle cerebral arteries (duplicated and ipsilateral accessory) associated with triplicated anterior cerebral arteries (accessory) diagnosed by magnetic resonance angiography. 2024; 46:959-962. doi: 10.1007/s00276-024-03380-3

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38743145/
