PMID: 38748525
Title: Quantification and Visualization of CT Myocardial Perfusion Imaging to Detect Ischemia-Causing Coronary Arteries.

Abstract: Coronary computed tomography angiography (cCTA) has poor specificity to identify coronary stenosis that limit blood flow to the myocardial tissue. Integration of dynamic CT myocardial perfusion imaging (CT-MPI) can potentially improve the diagnostic accuracy. We propose a method that integrates cCTA and CT-MPI to identify culprit coronary lesions that limit blood flow to the myocardium. Coronary arteries and left ventricle surfaces were segmented from cCTA and registered to CT-MPI. Myocardial blood flow (MBF) was derived from CT-MPI. A ray-casting approach was developed to project volumetric MBF onto the left ventricle surface. MBF volume were divided into coronary-specific territories based on proximity to the nearest coronary artery. MBF and normalized MBF were computed for the entire myocardium and each of the coronary artery. Projection of MBF onto cCTA allowed for direct visualization of perfusion defects. Normalized MBF had higher correlation with ischemic myocardial territory compared to MBF (MBF: R2=0.81 and Index MBF: R2=0.90). There were 18 vessels that showed angiographic disease (stenosis >50%); however, normalized MBF demonstrated only 5 coronary territories to be ischemic. These findings demonstrate that cCTA and CT-MPI can be integrated to visualize myocardial defects and detect culprit coronary arteries responsible for perfusion defects. These methods can allow for non-invasive detection of ischemia-causing coronary lesions and ultimately help guide clinicians to deliver more targeted coronary interventions.

Citation: Khan MO, et al. Quantification and Visualization of CT Myocardial Perfusion Imaging to Detect Ischemia-Causing Coronary Arteries. Quantification and Visualization of CT Myocardial Perfusion Imaging to Detect Ischemia-Causing Coronary Arteries. 2024; 43:3690-3697. doi: 10.1109/TMI.2024.3401552

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38748525/
