PMID: 38749668
Title: Bacteria Endocarditis Caused by Mycoplasma hyorhinis in a Juvenile, Immunosuppressed Pig (Sus scrofa domesticus) following Partial Heart Transplantation.

Abstract: Domestic swine (Sus scrofa domesticus) are important translational models for cardiovascular transplant studies. This can be attributed to the anatomic and physiologic similarities of their cardiovascular system to humans. Transplant studies frequently employ clinically relevant immunosuppression regimens to prevent organ rejection postoperatively. Immunosuppression can lead to opportunistic infection, including presentations that are novel or poorly described in immunocompetent hosts. In this study, we describe the first case of Mycoplasma hyorhinis -induced endocarditis affecting the pulmonary valve in a juvenile, immunosuppressed pig following a partial heart transplantation procedure. Clinical signs of infection began at 15 d postoperation, were consistent with a variety of infectious agents, including Mycoplasma hyorhinis, and included lethargy, respiratory signs, and elevated white blood cell counts. By 28 d post procedure, lameness and soft tissue swelling around the left tarsus developed. Joint fluid obtained by arthrocentesis was PCR positive for Mycoplasma hyorhinis and negative for other tested pathogens. Despite antimicrobial treatment, the transplanted pulmonary valve developed leaflet thickening, stenosis, and insufficiency starting at 30 d after the procedure. At 86 d posttransplantation, the pig reached experimental endpoints and was humanely euthanized for necropsy and histopathology. The pulmonary valve had numerous dark red vegetative expansions of all 3 leaflets. Postmortem testing of a vegetative lesion was positive for Mycoplasma hyorhinis, confirming the etiologic agent responsible for endocarditis. Mycoplasma hyorhinis -induced endocarditis of an orthotopic transplanted pulmonary valve has yet to be described in swine. This case report demonstrates that infections following immunosuppression may present with novel or undercharacterized clinical signs.

Citation: Suk RN, et al. Bacteria Endocarditis Caused by Mycoplasma hyorhinis in a Juvenile, Immunosuppressed Pig (Sus scrofa domesticus) following Partial Heart Transplantation. Bacteria Endocarditis Caused by Mycoplasma hyorhinis in a Juvenile, Immunosuppressed Pig (Sus scrofa domesticus) following Partial Heart Transplantation. 2024; 74:295-303. doi: 10.30802/AALAS-CM-23-000090

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38749668/
