PMID: 38743080
Title: Heated humidified high-flow nasal cannula: a new conservative approach for neonatal nasal stenosis.

Abstract: PURPOSE: The aim of this study is to evaluate the efficacy of heated humidified high flow nasal cannula (HFNC) therapy as a conservative treatment option for newborns suffering from nasal stenosis, a condition that often leads to respiratory distress and feeding difficulties. Given the increasing utilization of HFNC in various upper and lower respiratory tract indications, characterized by its flow-based mechanism and minimal mucosal damage, we seek to investigate its potential benefits in this specific patient population.
METHODS: A retrospective chart review of newborns with congenital nasal stenosis treated with HFNC for respiratory distress or feeding difficulties in a pediatric tertiary center between 2014 and 2022. Data were collected for demographic characteristics, clinical presentation and ventilatory requirements, pre and post HFNC application.
RESULTS: Six infants with nasal stenosis were included in the study cohort. Five were diagnosed with congenital pyriform aperture stenosis, three of whom had additional midnasal stenosis. One patient had nasal synechiae. Two patients had failed surgical treatment and all patients failed conservative treatment prior to HFNC treatment. Following HFNC use, improvement was noted in oxygen saturations, heart and respiratory rates, meal volumes and weight. None of the patients required any additional sinonasal surgical treatment. No complications were observed.
CONCLUSIONS: In this case series, we present the first documented use of HFNC treatment for nasal stenosis, showing favorable results. Further studies with a larger cohort, wider range of conditions and extended follow-up periods are needed to establish the risks and benefits of HFNC for neonatal nasal stenosis.

Citation: Havazelet S, et al. Heated humidified high-flow nasal cannula: a new conservative approach for neonatal nasal stenosis. Heated humidified high-flow nasal cannula: a new conservative approach for neonatal nasal stenosis. 2024; 281:5261-5266. doi: 10.1007/s00405-024-08728-4

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38743080/
