PMID: 38758460
Title: Numerical Modeling of Flow in the Cerebral Vasculature: Understanding Changes in Collateral Flow Directions in the Circle of Willis for a Cohort of Vasospasm Patients Through Image-Based Computational Fluid Dynamics.

Abstract: The Circle of Willis (CoW) is a ring-like network of blood vessels that perfuses the brain. Flow in the collateral pathways that connect major arterial inputs in the CoW change dynamically in response to vessel narrowing or occlusion. Vasospasm is an involuntary constriction of blood vessels following subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH), which can lead to stroke. This study investigated interactions between localization of vasospasm in the CoW, vasospasm severity, anatomical variations, and changes in collateral flow directions. Patient-specific computational fluid dynamics (CFD) simulations were created for 25 vasospasm patients. Computed tomographic angiography scans were segmented capturing the anatomical variation and stenosis due to vasospasm. Transcranial Doppler ultrasound measurements of velocity were used to define boundary conditions. Digital subtraction angiography was analyzed to determine the directions and magnitudes of collateral flows as well as vasospasm severity in each vessel. Percent changes in resistance and viscous dissipation were analyzed to quantify vasospasm severity and localization of vasospasm in a specific region of the CoW. Angiographic severity correlated well with percent changes in resistance and viscous dissipation across all cerebral vessels. Changes in flow direction were observed in collateral pathways of some patients with localized vasospasm, while no significant changes in flow direction were observed in others. CFD simulations can be leveraged to quantify the localization and severity of vasospasm in SAH patients. These factors as well as anatomical variation may lead to changes in collateral flow directions. Future work could relate localization and vasospasm severity to clinical outcomes like the development of infarct.

Citation: Straccia A, et al. Numerical Modeling of Flow in the Cerebral Vasculature: Understanding Changes in Collateral Flow Directions in the Circle of Willis for a Cohort of Vasospasm Patients Through Image-Based Computational Fluid Dynamics. Numerical Modeling of Flow in the Cerebral Vasculature: Understanding Changes in Collateral Flow Directions in the Circle of Willis for a Cohort of Vasospasm Patients Through Image-Based Computational Fluid Dynamics. 2024; 52:2417-2439. doi: 10.1007/s10439-024-03533-w

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38758460/
