PMID: 38751992
Title: Oesophageal Lichen Planus Successfully Treated with Budesonide Orodispersible Tablets: A Case Report.

Abstract: INTRODUCTION: Lichen planus is a relatively common inflammatory condition of the nails, skin, and mucosal surfaces. Oesophageal involvement of lichen planus is thought to be very rare, mainly described in case reports, but is associated with a high risk of oesophageal stenosis as well as squamous cell carcinoma. No evidence-based treatment recommendations exist, with the majority of described treatment regimens involving systemic immunosuppression.
CASE REPORT: In this case report, we describe a novel approach in treating oesophageal lichen planus in a patient with budesonide orodispersible tablets, a treatment normally reserved for eosinophilic oesophagitis. The patient achieved complete relief of dysphagia, with a follow-up oesophagogastroduodenoscopy 2 months after treatment commencement being macroscopically and microscopically free of inflammatory activity. This case report is to our knowledge the first to report this treatment regimen in oesophageal lichen planus.
CONCLUSION: We consider a trial of budesonide orodispersible tablets a reasonable initial management as it's a local therapy specific to the oesophagus with a more benign side effect profile than systemic immunosuppression, but further studies need to be undertaken to corroborate our findings. Also, based on the severity and malignant potential of oesophageal lichen planus, we suggest that physicians be liberal in ordering oesophagogastroduodenoscopy with biopsy taking as part of the workup of dysphagia in a patient with known lichen planus.

Citation: Bagger-Jörgensen H, et al. Oesophageal Lichen Planus Successfully Treated with Budesonide Orodispersible Tablets: A Case Report. Oesophageal Lichen Planus Successfully Treated with Budesonide Orodispersible Tablets: A Case Report. 2024; 18:266-272. doi: 10.1159/000538894

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38751992/
