PMID: 38754465
Title: Local triamcinolone injection and selective add-on oral steroids to prevent esophageal post-endoscopic submucosal dissection stricture: a retrospective analysis in a Western center.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Extensive esophageal endoscopic submucosal dissections (ESDs) without preventive measures carry a high risk of stricture. Oral steroids and local injection of triamcinolone acetonide have proven to be effective in Asia for the prevention of esophageal stricture. This study aimed to assess the efficacy of a systematic steroid administration protocol for stricture prevention in a Western center.
METHODS: A retrospective review was conducted of all esophageal ESDs performed at H.U.B. Erasme Hospital, Brussels between 2016 and 2022. Injection of triamcinolone was performed for mucosal defects between 50% and 89% of the circumference. We added oral corticosteroids for patients with resections of ≥90% of the circumference. The primary outcome was the incidence of symptomatic stenosis at 3 months. Secondary outcomes included the cumulative stricture rate assessed by endoscopy within 6 months of ESD. Potential risk factors of stricture were evaluated with univariate and multivariate analysis.
RESULTS: 111 patients underwent 130 esophageal ESDs, with 59 patients receiving triamcinolone acetonide local injection and eight receiving local and oral corticosteroids. The primary outcome demonstrated a stricture incidence of 8.4%. The cumulative stricture rate assessed by endoscopy within 6 months of ESD was 10.4%. A mucosal defect of ≥60 mm in length was associated with a 15-fold increased risk of stricture, with circumferential extent also identified as being an independent prognostic factor for stricture.
CONCLUSIONS: Our protocol led to a low stricture rate, even after extensive resection. As a single session treatment without systemic side effects, triamcinolone injection could provide benefits as a preventive method after large esophageal resections.

Citation: Carpentier D, et al. Local triamcinolone injection and selective add-on oral steroids to prevent esophageal post-endoscopic submucosal dissection stricture: a retrospective analysis in a Western center. Local triamcinolone injection and selective add-on oral steroids to prevent esophageal post-endoscopic submucosal dissection stricture: a retrospective analysis in a Western center. 2024; 56:811-819. doi: 10.1055/a-2328-6282

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38754465/
