PMID: 38754219
Title: On the role of aortic valve architecture for physiological hemodynamics and valve replacement, Part II: Spectral analysis and anisotropy.

Abstract: Severe aortic valve stenosis can lead to heart failure and aortic valve replacement (AVR) is the primary treatment. However, increasing prevalence of aortic stenosis cases reveal limitations in current replacement options, necessitating improved prosthetic aortic valves. We investigate flow disturbances downstream of severe aortic stenosis and two bioprosthetic aortic valve (BioAV) designs using advanced energy-based analyses. Three-dimensional high-fidelity fluid-structure interaction simulations have been conducted and a dedicated and novel spectral analysis has been developed to characterise the kinetic energy (KE) carried by eddies in the wavenumber space. In addition, new field quantities, i.e. modal KE anisotropy intensity as well as normalised helicity intensity, are introduced. Spectral analysis shows kinetic energy (KE) decay variations, with the stenotic case aligning with Kolmogorov's theory, while BioAV cases differing. We explore the impact of flow helicity on KE transfer and decay in BioAVs. Probability distributions of modal KE anisotropy unveil flow asymmetries in the stenotic and one BioAV cases. Moreover, an inverse correlation between temporally averaged modal KE anisotropy and normalised instantaneous helicity intensity is noted, with the coefficient of determination varying among the valve configurations. Leaflet dynamics analysis highlights a stronger correlation between flow and biomechanical KE anisotropy in one BioAV due to higher leaflet displacement magnitude. These findings emphasise the role of valve architecture in aortic turbulence as well as its importance for BioAV performance and energy-based design enhancement.

Citation: Corso P and Obrist D. On the role of aortic valve architecture for physiological hemodynamics and valve replacement, Part II: Spectral analysis and anisotropy. On the role of aortic valve architecture for physiological hemodynamics and valve replacement, Part II: Spectral analysis and anisotropy. 2024; 176:108552. doi: 10.1016/j.compbiomed.2024.108552

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38754219/
