PMID: 38751901
Title: Excimer laser coronary angioplasty without stenting in a 37-year-old man with acute coronary syndrome involving left main trunk: a case report.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Excimer laser coronary angioplasty (ELCA) is utilized to reduce thrombus in acute coronary syndrome (ACS). However, the feasibility and safety of ELCA for patients with ACS involving the left main trunk (LMT) and bifurcation, as well as the safety of a stentless strategy with ELCA, are not well-documented.
CASE SUMMARY: A 37-year-old man without any past medical history presented with chest pain. Electrocardiogram showed ST-segment elevation in leads I, aVL, and V2-V6. Emergent coronary angiography (CAG) showed a 99% stenosis from LMT to proximal left anterior descending artery (LAD). Intra-aortic balloon pumping (IABP) was initiated. Intravascular ultrasound revealed massive thrombus at the culprit lesion. Thrombus aspiration was not enough to reduce the thrombus, thus, we conducted thrombus vaporization with a 0.9 mm ELCA catheter. Coronary angiography after the procedure showed reduced thrombus with thrombolysis in myocardial infarction grade 3 flow. Considering his age and the complexity of stenting the LMT, we completed the procedure without stenting. After the intervention, we initiated triple antithrombotic therapy. On Day 3, we removed the IABP. On Day 11, CAG showed no significant stenosis. Optical coherence tomography revealed ulceration, indicating the presence of plaque disruption at the proximal LAD as the likely cause of thrombosis. With improvement in CAG findings, we stopped heparin and continued dual antiplatelet therapy. He was discharged on Day 20.
DISCUSSION: Excimer laser coronary angioplasty without stenting can be an option for the patients with ACS involving LMT, especially for younger patients who are suitable to avoid stenting on bifurcation lesions for lifelong management.

Citation: Shigeno R and Hirohata A. Excimer laser coronary angioplasty without stenting in a 37-year-old man with acute coronary syndrome involving left main trunk: a case report. Excimer laser coronary angioplasty without stenting in a 37-year-old man with acute coronary syndrome involving left main trunk: a case report. 2024; 8:ytae206. doi: 10.1093/ehjcr/ytae206

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38751901/
