PMID: 38769162
Title: Surgeon variation: a south african spinal pathology treatment survey.

Abstract: PURPOSE: To investigate variation in treatment decisions among spine surgeons in South Africa and the association between surgeon characteristics and the treatment they select.
METHODS: We surveyed 79 South African spine surgeons. We presented four vignettes (cervical spine distractive flexion injury, lumbar disc herniation, degenerative spondylolisthesis with stenosis, and insufficiency fracture) for them to assess and select treatments. We calculated the index of qualitative variation (IQV) to determine the degree of variability within each vignette. We used Fisher's exact, and Kruskal-Wallis tests to assess the relationships between surgeons' characteristics and their responses per vignette. We compared their responses to the recommendations of a panel of spine specialists.
RESULTS: IQVs showed moderate to high variability for cervical spine distractive flexion injury and insufficiency fracture and slightly lower levels of variability for lumbar disc herniation and degenerative spondylolisthesis with stenosis. This confirms the heterogeneity in South African spine surgeons' management of spinal pathologies. The surgeon characteristics associated with their treatment selection that were important were caseload, experience and training, and external funding. Also, 19% of the surgeons selected a treatment option that the Panel did not support.
CONCLUSION: The findings make a case for evaluating patient outcomes and costs to identify value-based care. Such research would help countries that are seeking to contract with providers on value. Greater uniformity in treatment and easily accessible outcomes reporting would provide guidance for patients. Further investment in training and participation in fellowship programs may be necessary, along with greater dissemination of information from the literature.

Citation: Vorster PA, et al. Surgeon variation: a south african spinal pathology treatment survey. Surgeon variation: a south african spinal pathology treatment survey. 2024; 33:2577-2593. doi: 10.1007/s00586-024-08295-6

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38769162/
