PMID: 38762722
Title: How does cervical sagittal profile change after the spontaneous compensation of global sagittal imbalance following one- or two-level lumbar fusion.

Abstract: PURPOSE: This study aimed to evaluate the cervical sagittal profile after the spontaneous compensation of global sagittal imbalance and analyze the associations between the changes in cervical sagittal alignment and spinopelvic parameters.
METHODS: In this retrospective radiographic study, we analyzed 90 patients with degenerative lumbar stenosis (DLS) and sagittal imbalance who underwent short lumbar fusion (imbalance group). We used 60 patients with DLS and sagittal balance as the control group (balance group). Patients in the imbalance group were also divided into two groups according to the preoperative PI: low PI group (≤ 50°), high PI group (PI > 50°). We measured the spinal sagittal alignment parameters on the long-cassette standing lateral radiographs of the whole spine. We compared the changes of spinal sagittal parameters between pre-operation and post-operation. We observed the relationships between the changes in cervical profile and spinopelvic parameters.
RESULTS: Sagittal vertical axis (SVA) occurred spontaneous compensation (p = 0.000) and significant changes were observed in cervical lordosis (CL) (p = 0.000) and cervical sagittal vertical axis (cSVA) (p = 0.023) after surgery in the imbalance group. However, there were no significant differences in the radiographic parameters from pre-operation to post-operation in the balance group. The variations in CL were correlated with the variations in SVA (R = 0.307, p = 0.041). The variations in cSVA were correlated with the variations in SVA (R=-0.470, p = 0.001).
CONCLUSION: Cervical sagittal profile would have compensatory changes after short lumbar fusion. The spontaneous decrease in CL would occur in patients with DLS after the spontaneous compensation of global sagittal imbalance following one- or two-level lumbar fusion. The changes of cervical sagittal profile were related to the extent of the spontaneous compensation of SVA.

Citation: Liu C, et al. How does cervical sagittal profile change after the spontaneous compensation of global sagittal imbalance following one- or two-level lumbar fusion. How does cervical sagittal profile change after the spontaneous compensation of global sagittal imbalance following one- or two-level lumbar fusion. 2024; 25:387. doi: 10.1186/s12891-024-07518-7

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38762722/
