PMID: 38762041
Title: Magnetic compression anastomosis for the treatment of complete biliary obstruction after cholecystectomy.

Abstract: BACKGROUND AND AIMS: Post-cholecystectomy biliary strictures can be treated surgically or nonsurgically. Although endoscopic or percutaneous treatments are the preferred approaches, these methods are not feasible in cases in which complete stricture occlusion prevents the successful passage of a guidewire. The utility of magnetic compression anastomosis (MCA) in patients with post-cholecystectomy complete biliary obstruction that cannot be treated conventionally was evaluated.
METHODS: MCA was performed in 10 patients with post-cholecystectomy biliary strictures that did not resolve with conventional endoscopic or percutaneous treatment. One magnet was delivered through the percutaneous transhepatic biliary drainage tract, and another was advanced via ERCP of the common bile duct. After magnet approximation and recanalization, a fully covered self-expandable metal stent (FCSEMS) was placed for 3 months and then replaced for an additional 3 months. Stricture resolution was evaluated after FCSEMS removal.
RESULTS: Among the 10 patients who underwent MCA for post-cholecystectomy biliary stricture, the biliary injury was Strasberg type B in 2, type C in 3, and type E in 5. Recanalization was successful in all patients (technical success rate, 100%). The mean follow-up period after recanalization was 50.2 months (range, 13.2-116.8 months). Partial restenosis after MCA occurred in 2 patients at 24.1 and 1.6 months after stent removal. ERCP with FCSEMS placement resolved the recurrent stenosis in both patients.
CONCLUSIONS: MCA is a useful nonsurgical alternative treatment for complete biliary obstruction after cholecystectomy that cannot be resolved by use of conventional methods.

Citation: Jang SI, et al. Magnetic compression anastomosis for the treatment of complete biliary obstruction after cholecystectomy. Magnetic compression anastomosis for the treatment of complete biliary obstruction after cholecystectomy. 2024; (unknown volume):(unknown pages). doi: 10.1016/j.gie.2024.05.009

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38762041/
