PMID: 38766734
Title: Surgical Management of Norwood Procedure for Atypical Aortic Arch.

Abstract: Background: Postoperative restenosis of the aortic arch after the Norwood procedure is still an important complication that significantly affects surgical outcomes. The rarity of the Norwood procedure for atypical aortic morphology means appropriate arch reconstruction methods and postoperative complications are still unknown. This study aimed to assess the rate of arch reintervention and clinical outcomes after the Norwood procedure for atypical aortic arch. Methods: This retrospective single-center study was conducted between 2001 and 2022. Sixteen patients were identified, eight with a right aortic arch, five with transposition of the great arteries, one with a right aortic arch and transposition of the great arteries, and two with a large tortuous patent ductus arteriosus connected to the opposite side of the descending aorta. We selected and performed four different surgical techniques depending on each aortic arch morphology. Results: Except for one case, autologous tissue-only arch reconstruction was possible. There was one operative death and four late deaths. Overall, no patients required any surgical or catheter-based reintervention for the aortic arch. On the other hand, left pulmonary artery stenosis due to a narrow subaortic space was found in two patients. Conclusions: The Norwood procedure for atypical aortic arch was performed with good results by choosing the appropriate technique for each morphology. On the other hand, pulmonary artery stenosis is likely to occur especially in the transposition of the great arteries group. Therefore, careful surgical method selection or further improvement of the technique that allows retroaortic space should be considered.

Citation: Masaki S, et al. Surgical Management of Norwood Procedure for Atypical Aortic Arch. Surgical Management of Norwood Procedure for Atypical Aortic Arch. 2024; 15:581-587. doi: 10.1177/21501351241235953

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38766734/
