PMID: 38761535
Title: A novel simultaneous three-dimensional volumetric morphological imaging and T2-mapping method, multi-interleaved X-prepared turbo-spin echo with intuitive relaxometry provides more accurate quantification of cervical spinal nerves.

Abstract: PURPOSE: MIXTURE is a simultaneous morphological and quantitative imaging sequence developed by Philips that provides high-resolution T2 maps from the imaged series. We aimed to compare the T2 maps of MIXTURE and SHINKEI-Quant (S-Q) in the cervical spine and to examine their usefulness in the functional diagnosis of cervical radiculopathy.
METHODS: Seven healthy male volunteers (mean age: 31 ± 8.0 years) and one patient with cervical disc herniation (44 years old, male) underwent cervical spine magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), and T2-mapping of each was performed simultaneously using MIXTURE and S-Q in consecutive sequences in one imaging session. The standard deviation (SD) of the T2 relaxation times and T2 relaxation times of the bilateral C6 and C7 dorsal root ganglia (DRG) and C5/6 level cervical cord on the same slice in the 3D T2-map of the cervical spine coronal section were measured and compared between MIXTURE and S-Q.
RESULTS: T2 relaxation times were significantly shorter in MIXTURE than in S-Q for all C6, C7 DRG, and C5/6 spinal cord measurements. The SD values of the T2 relaxation times were significantly lower for MIXTURE in the C5/6 spinal cord and C7 DRG. In cervical disc herniation, MRI showed multiple intervertebral compression lesions with spinal canal stenosis at C5/6 and disc herniation at C6/7.
CONCLUSION: MIXTURE is useful for preoperative functional diagnosis. T2-mapping using MIXTURE can quantify cervical nerve roots more accurately than the S-Q method and is expected to be clinically applicable to cervical radiculopathy.

Citation: Tokeshi S, et al. A novel simultaneous three-dimensional volumetric morphological imaging and T2-mapping method, multi-interleaved X-prepared turbo-spin echo with intuitive relaxometry provides more accurate quantification of cervical spinal nerves. A novel simultaneous three-dimensional volumetric morphological imaging and T2-mapping method, multi-interleaved X-prepared turbo-spin echo with intuitive relaxometry provides more accurate quantification of cervical spinal nerves. 2024; 125:97-103. doi: 10.1016/j.jocn.2024.05.004

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38761535/
