PMID: 38778983
Title: A rare case study of pyoderma gangrenosum with dilated cardiomyopathy and multiple cerebral infarct in malnourished children.

Abstract: Pyoderma gangrenosum (PG) is an extremely rare case of sterile necrotic ulcerative disease associated with malnutrition as a predisposition factor. It is unclear, though, whether dilated cardiomyopathy, which affects blood flow and results in stenosis in the arteries, could play a role as an etiology. In this study, a case of pyoderma gangrenosum in a 10-year-old boy complicated by dilated cardiomyopathy, a previous history of cerebrovascular disease, and a malnourished condition were reported. The patient was reported to have exudative necrotic lesions in both legs. Lesions began as small, multiple, itchy lesions on both legs, which later became blisters and scuffed, and progressed into painful, peeled-off lesions with pus, bleeding, redness around lesions, and maggots within a month. A high fever was an accompanying symptom. The multidisciplinary team was involved to provide a comprehensive treatment for this patient. Antibiotics and necrotomy debridement were performed several times. Anticoagulant treatment was indicated as the coagulation markers were increased and echocardiography suggested thrombus in the left ventricle. The underlying condition that increases the risk of pyoderma gangrenosum should be corrected. The patient was discharged after a clinical improvement, although the continuation of outpatient monitoring was required. Our report suggests that a chronic condition of dilated cardiomyopathy that affects normal blood flow leads to malnutrition, the formation of thrombus, and stenosis of a peripheral artery, all of which contributed to pyoderma gangrenosum. Therefore, early surgical treatment, antibiotic administration, and anticoagulant treatment were recommended.

Citation: Adrizain R, et al. A rare case study of pyoderma gangrenosum with dilated cardiomyopathy and multiple cerebral infarct in malnourished children. A rare case study of pyoderma gangrenosum with dilated cardiomyopathy and multiple cerebral infarct in malnourished children. 2024; 10:e30838. doi: 10.1016/j.heliyon.2024.e30838

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38778983/
