PMID: 38775226
Title: Lacrimal Drainage Anomalies in Goldenhar, Rubinstein-Taybi, and Ectodermal-Ectrodactyly-Clefting Syndromes.

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: To describe in detail the lacrimal drainage system anomalies and review of literature in patients with Goldenhar syndrome, Rubinstein-Taybi syndrome (RTS), and Ectodermal-Ectrodactyly-Clefting syndrome (EECS), their management and outcomes.
METHODS: A retrospective chart review from January 2011-June 2023 of all cases presenting to the Dacryology clinic with Goldenhar syndrome, RTS, and EECS was obtained. Data collected included demographics, laterality, clinical presentations, proximal and distal lacrimal drainage anomalies, associated systemic features, management, and outcomes.
RESULTS: Eight children with Goldenhar syndrome (n = 13), three with RTS (n = 5) and three with EECS (n = 5) presented with lacrimal drainage system involvement. Cases with Goldenhar syndrome showed male predominance (5/8), and the mean age at presentation was 14.75 months. Four cases had simple CNLDO, seven cases with complex CNLDO (4 - buried probe and 3 - atonic sacs) and a single neonate presented with bilateral dacryocele. Patients with RTS presented with mean age of 36.33 months with male predominance. Probing under endoscopic guidance explored the anatomy thoroughly and those with altered nasal anatomy increased the probability of complex CNLDO. Those with EECS (n = 5) presented with a greater involvement of proximal lacrimal drainage system compared with Goldenhar syndrome and RTS, including anomalies like punctal agenesis, incomplete punctal canalization (IPC), ectopic puncta, canalicular stenosis, and complex CNLDO.
CONCLUSIONS: A step-wise approach to assessing the proximal and lacrimal drainage system in those affected with craniofacial malformations and addressing them can result in satisfactory outcomes for the majority of patients.

Citation: Bothra N, et al. Lacrimal Drainage Anomalies in Goldenhar, Rubinstein-Taybi, and Ectodermal-Ectrodactyly-Clefting Syndromes. Lacrimal Drainage Anomalies in Goldenhar, Rubinstein-Taybi, and Ectodermal-Ectrodactyly-Clefting Syndromes. 2024; (unknown volume):1-8. doi: 10.1080/08820538.2024.2355310

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38775226/
