PMID: 38775821
Title: Post-operative epidural haematoma as complication of overconsumption of dried fruit in lumbar spinal surgery: a case report and review of the literature.

Abstract: PURPOSE: Mebos, a traditional South Africa confection consisting of dried, pulped, and sugared apricots, is rich in fibre and vitamins, but also contains salicylic acid, flavonoids, and citric acid. We report a case of postoperative surgical site bleeding in a healthy patient who consumed approximately 2 kg of mebos per day prior to his elective spinal surgery.
METHODS: The clinical course of a previously healthy 54-year-old male patient with cauda equina syndrome secondary to lumbar spinal stenosis who underwent surgical intervention with subsequent bleeding into the surgical site is discussed. The cause was investigated through biochemical analysis, thromboelastometry (ROTEM®) and mass and absorption spectrometry were applied to assess flavonoid, citric acid, and salicylic acid content.
RESULTS: ROTEM® revealed an abnormal clotting profile with an increased clot forming time, suggesting intrinsic coagulopathy. Mass and absorption spectrometry revealed a high total flavonoid content as well as citric acid concentration in the mebos. Salicylic acid was at detection limits of the instrument.
CONCLUSION: Results highlighted the effect of flavonoids and citric acid and therefore explain the abnormal clotting profile in this patient. Inhibition of coagulation prior to elective surgery is a known contraindication and may pose great risks in spinal surgery. In the present report, we demonstrated an association between inhibition of coagulation and an excess of the flavonoids content and citric acid concentration in mebos consumed in the days prior to elective spinal surgery.

Citation: Geldenhuys EM, et al. Post-operative epidural haematoma as complication of overconsumption of dried fruit in lumbar spinal surgery: a case report and review of the literature. Post-operative epidural haematoma as complication of overconsumption of dried fruit in lumbar spinal surgery: a case report and review of the literature. 2024; 33:2913-2918. doi: 10.1007/s00586-024-08306-6

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38775821/
