PMID: 38771952
Title: Outcomes of Visceral Arterial Interposition Graft Reconstruction for Locally Advanced Pancreatic Cancer.

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: The aim of this study is to determine perioperative outcomes and the patency of interposition conduits for visceral arterial reconstruction in this setting.
SUMMARY BACKGROUND DATA: Visceral arterial encasement in locally advanced pancreatic cancer was historically a contraindication for surgery. With modern effective neoadjuvant strategies, our recent experience has made advanced vascular resection and reconstruction feasible in selected patients.
METHODS: A retrospective review was performed of patients undergoing pancreatic tumor resection with en bloc arterial resection and interposition revascularization between 6/2002-10/2022. Endpoints included graft patency, vascular-related complications, reinterventions, morbidity, and mortality.
RESULTS: Visceral arterial reconstruction with interposition grafting was performed in 111 patients undergoing en bloc arterial resections for pancreatic cancer. Graft types included autologous arterial conduits (n=66, 58 superficial femoral artery (SFA) and 8 splenic artery), cryopreserved arterial allografts (n=24), autologous saphenous veins (n=12), synthetic conduits (n=8), and composite autologous artery and synthetic (n=1). Perioperative 90-day mortality decreased significantly over time to 5% in the last six years. Vascular complications related to arterial reconstruction occurred in 11% (n=12) and included pseudoaneurysm (n=6), graft thrombus (n=2), stenosis requiring reintervention (n=2), hepatic failure (n=1), and hepatic and intestinal ischemia (n=1). Nine (8%) patients underwent vascular-related reinterventions. After median follow-up of 17-months, primary patency was 81% for the entire cohort and was highest in the SFA group (95%). The donor limb/harvest site complication rate was 8% with 100% primary patency.
CONCLUSION: Visceral arterial resection with interposition reconstruction for locally advanced pancreatic cancer can be performed with acceptable vascular morbidity and durable patency. Autologous SFA was the most suitable conduit for reconstructions in our experience, with highest primary patency.

Citation: Yonkus JA, et al. Outcomes of Visceral Arterial Interposition Graft Reconstruction for Locally Advanced Pancreatic Cancer. Outcomes of Visceral Arterial Interposition Graft Reconstruction for Locally Advanced Pancreatic Cancer. 2024; (unknown volume):(unknown pages). doi: 10.1097/SLA.0000000000006350

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38771952/
