PMID: 38779167
Title: Additional Benefits of Serum Oncostatin M Levels Compared to Cardiac Troponin in Non-ST Elevation Myocardial Infarction.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: The use of high-sensitivity troponin levels increases the sensitivity of the diagnosis of non-ST elevation myocardial infarction (NSTEMI). However, the inclusion of other factors in the differential diagnosis, apart from atherothrombosis causing myocardial injury, decreases the specificity of high-sensitivity troponin. In this study, we compared the efficacy of high-sensitivity troponin with serum oncostatin M in NSTEMI cases with elevated urea and creatinine.
METHODS: This study was performed with a prospective cross-sectional sample. Ninety participants with coronary angiography performed due to a preliminary diagnosis of NSTEMI were included. High-sensitivity troponin I, creatine kinase-MB, lactate dehydrogenase, serum transaminase and oncostatin M levels were quantitatively measured for the first 4-8 hours from the onset of symptoms. All participants had coronary angiography performed within the first 12 hours after attending the emergency service. Based on coronary angiography data, patients with significant coronary stenosis or occlusion detected during coronary angiography were defined as group A, and patients with no occlusion in the coronary artery and who did not require an additional interventional procedure were defined as group B. The SYNTAX 2 score was used to determine the severity of coronary artery disease.
RESULTS: Patients in both groups A and B had similar age, sex distribution and comorbidities. Group A had higher serum urea, creatinine, oncostatin M and high-sensitivity troponin I values than group B. With 585 pg/ml as the cut-off value, serum oncostatin M had a sensitivity of 88.6% and specificity of 85% for the diagnosis of NSTEMI. Logistic regression multivariate analysis showed that serum oncostatin M and high-sensitivity troponin I values had diagnostic efficacy for NSTEMI. Serum oncostatin M was found to be more effective than high-sensitivity troponin I in patients with elevated urea and creatinine.
CONCLUSIONS: Serum oncostatin M had similar sensitivity and specificity for NSTEMI diagnosis as high-sensitivity troponin I. Serum OSM can especially be considered as a complementary diagnostic biomarker for NSTEMI in patients with renal dysfunction.

Citation: Akarsu M, et al. Additional Benefits of Serum Oncostatin M Levels Compared to Cardiac Troponin in Non-ST Elevation Myocardial Infarction. Additional Benefits of Serum Oncostatin M Levels Compared to Cardiac Troponin in Non-ST Elevation Myocardial Infarction. 2024; 40:281-291. doi: 10.6515/ACS.202405_40(3).20240128A

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38779167/
