PMID: 38774553
Title: Positive Predictive Value of Computerized Tomography Coronary Angiography versus Computerized Tomography Fractional Flow Reserve in a Real-world Population.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Computed Tomography coronary angiography and fractional flow reserve (CTCA and CT-FFR) are noninvasive diagnostic tools for the detection of flow-limiting coronary artery stenoses. Although their negative predictive values are well established, there is a concern that the high sensitivity of these tests may lead to overestimation of coronary artery disease (CAD) and unnecessary invasive coronary angiography (ICA). We compared the positive predictive value (PPV) of CT-FFR with computerized tomography coronary angiography (CTCA) against the gold standard of ICA in different real-world patient groups.
METHODS: A retrospective analysis of 477 patients referred for CTCA or CT-FFR for investigation of possible coronary ischemia. Patients were excluded if the image quality was poor or inconclusive. Patient-based PPV was calculated to detect or rule out significant CAD, defined as more than 70% stenosis on ICA. A sub-analysis of PPV by indication for the scan was also performed. Patients who underwent invasive nonhyperemic pressure wire measurements had their instant wave-free ratio or resting full-cycle ratio compared with their CT-FFR values.
RESULTS: In a patient-based analysis, the overall PPV was 59.3% for CTCA and 76.2% for CT-FFR. This increased to 81.0% and 86.7%, respectively, for patients with stable angina symptoms. In patients with atypical angina symptoms, CT-FFR considerably outperformed CTCA with a PPV of 61.3% vs. 37.5%. There was not a linear relationship between invasive pressure wire measurement and CT-FFR value (r = 0.23, P = 0.265).
CONCLUSION: The PPV of CTCA and CT-FFR is lower in the real world than in previously published trials, partly due to the heterogeneity of indication for the scan. However, in patients with typical angina symptoms, both are reliable diagnostic tools to determine the presence of clinically significant coronary stenoses. CT-FFR significantly outperforms CTCA in patients with more atypical symptoms and the targeted use of CT-FFR in this group may help to avoid unnecessary invasive procedures.

Citation: Sinclair H, et al. Positive Predictive Value of Computerized Tomography Coronary Angiography versus Computerized Tomography Fractional Flow Reserve in a Real-world Population. Positive Predictive Value of Computerized Tomography Coronary Angiography versus Computerized Tomography Fractional Flow Reserve in a Real-world Population. 2024; 25:2-8. doi: 10.4103/heartviews.heartviews_82_23

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38774553/
