PMID: 38775814
Title: Staged urethroplasty with groin full-thickness skin graft for managing complex anterior urethral strictures: surgical outcomes and predictive factors.

Abstract: PURPOSE: To describe outcomes of staged-urethroplasty in complex anterior urethral strictures using full-thickness-skin-graft (FTSG) harvested from the hairless groin area, and to identify factors influencing successful outcomes.
METHODS: Through retrospective chart review, we identified a total of 67 men who underwent the first-stage operation (grafting) using groin-FTSG for staged-urethroplasty to treat complex anterior urethral strictures unsuitable for one-stage urethroplasty. Among these, 59 underwent the second-stage operation (tubularization) at a median duration of 5.1-months after grafting. Patients were assessed for outcomes as scheduled after tubularization outcomes were analyzed only for 48 patients for whom ≥ 1-year follow-up data after tubularization were available. Their mean follow-up duration was 27.1 months. Success was defined as achieving physiologic voiding without requiring further procedures.
RESULTS: Median stricture-length was 5.5 cm in all 67 patients. After grafting, neourethral-opening-narrowing occurred in 18. Partial graft-loss occurred in 8, of whom only 3 underwent re-grafting. The percentage of patients who achieved successful outcomes was 81.3%. Improvements in maximum-urine-flow-rate and post-void-residual-urine-volume were maintained until the last follow-up visit. A urethrocutaneous-fistula occurred in one patient, while meatal-stenosis occurred in two. On multivariate-regression-analysis, the presence of neourethral-opening-narrowing was the only predictor of non-success after tubularization. Furthermore, the presence of hypertension, longer stricture-length, and a history of prior direct-vision-internal-urethrotomy were predictors of the occurrence of neourethral-opening-narrowing.
CONCLUSION: Staged-urethroplasty using groin-FTSG is well worth considering as a useful therapeutic option for complex anterior urethral strictures, with an acceptable success rate and low morbidity. The absence of neourethral-opening-narrowing after the first-stage operation leads to success.

Citation: Cho MC, et al. Staged urethroplasty with groin full-thickness skin graft for managing complex anterior urethral strictures: surgical outcomes and predictive factors. Staged urethroplasty with groin full-thickness skin graft for managing complex anterior urethral strictures: surgical outcomes and predictive factors. 2024; 42:342. doi: 10.1007/s00345-024-05049-3

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38775814/
