PMID: 38785036
Title: Treatment of mixed and refractory post-tuberculosis tracheobronchial stenosis with L-shaped silicone stents: case series and a literature review.

Abstract: The two patients included in the study had mixed and refractory post-tuberculosis tracheobronchial stenosis (PTTS), having experienced unsuccessful interventional therapies such as balloon dilation and V-shaped stent placement before the operation. Following the secure placement of L-shaped silicone stents, examinations with a fiberbronchoscope during the first and third months post-operation revealed a significant reduction in bronchial mucosa inflammation for both patients. Additionally, the opening diameter of the upper and lower branch segments increased, and chest CT scans indicated a noticeable absorption of left pulmonary lesions. Three months post-operation, fiberbronchoscopy confirmed the stable fixation of the stent without any movement. The patients exhibited substantial improvements in pulmonary function, dyspnea index, and blood gas analysis, with no reported adverse complications. After 7 months, a follow-up fiberbronchoscope for one case revealed excellent stent fixation. Simultaneously, the chest CT scan indicated favorable re-expansion. The placement of L-shaped silicone stents proves effective in preventing displacement, alleviating airway stenosis or obstruction, and ensuring the safety and efficacy of PTTS treatment - particularly in cases where V-shaped silicone stent placement has failed. To our knowledge, this is the first study describing the L-shaped silicone stent in two patients with PTTS.

Citation: Zhang C, et al. Treatment of mixed and refractory post-tuberculosis tracheobronchial stenosis with L-shaped silicone stents: case series and a literature review. Treatment of mixed and refractory post-tuberculosis tracheobronchial stenosis with L-shaped silicone stents: case series and a literature review. 2024; 18:17534666241254901. doi: 10.1177/17534666241254901

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38785036/
