PMID: 38789122
Title: Diagnostic Accuracy of Preoperative Quantitative Susceptibility Mapping for Detecting Histologic Intraplaque Hemorrhage in Cervical ICA Stenosis in Patients Undergoing Carotid Endarterectomy.

Abstract: BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: Quantitative susceptibility mapping has been proposed to assess intraplaque hemorrhage (IPH) in the carotid artery. The purpose of this study was to compare the diagnostic accuracy of preoperative quantitative susceptibility mapping with that of the conventional T1-weighed 3D-FSE sequence for detecting IPH in cervical ICA stenosis in patients undergoing carotid endarterectomy by using histology as the reference standard.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Carotid T1-weighted 3D-FSE and QSM images were obtained from 16 patients with cervical ICA stenosis before carotid endarterectomy. Relative signal intensity and susceptibility of the ICA were measured on 3 axial images, including the location of most severe stenosis on T1-weighted 3D-FSE and quantitative susceptibility mapping images, respectively. Three transverse sections of carotid plaques excised by carotid endarterectomy, which corresponded with images on MR imaging, were stained with H&E, antibody against glycophorin A, and Prussian blue, and the relative area of histologic IPH was calculated.
RESULTS: The correlation coefficient was significantly greater between susceptibility and relative area-histologic IPH (ρ = 0.691) than between relative signal intensity and relative area-histologic IPH (ρ = 0.413; P = .0259). The areas under the receiver operating characteristic curves for detecting histologic sections consisting primarily of IPH (relative area-histologic IPH &gt; 40.7%) tended to be greater for susceptibility (0.964) than for T1WI FSE-relative signal intensity (0.811). Marginal homogeneity was observed between susceptibility and histologic sections consisting primarily of IPH (P = .0412), but not between T1-weighted FSE-relative signal intensity and histologic sections consisting primarily of IPH (P = .1824).
CONCLUSIONS: Pre-carotid endarterectomy quantitative susceptibility mapping detects histologic IPH in cervical ICA stenosis more accurately than preoperative T1-weighted 3D-FSE imaging.

Citation: Oomori D, et al. Diagnostic Accuracy of Preoperative Quantitative Susceptibility Mapping for Detecting Histologic Intraplaque Hemorrhage in Cervical ICA Stenosis in Patients Undergoing Carotid Endarterectomy. Diagnostic Accuracy of Preoperative Quantitative Susceptibility Mapping for Detecting Histologic Intraplaque Hemorrhage in Cervical ICA Stenosis in Patients Undergoing Carotid Endarterectomy. 2024; 45:1461-1467. doi: 10.3174/ajnr.A8356

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38789122/
