PMID: 38789211
Title: Eulerian- lagrangian dense discrete phase model (DDPM) of stenotic LAD coronary arteries in comparison with single phase modeling.

Abstract: In computational fluid dynamic studies related to blood flow, investigating the behavior of blood particles is crucial, especially red blood cells as they constitute a significant proportion of blood particles. Additionally, studying red blood cell movements is necessary, especially in stenotic artery geometries. A new multiphase scheme was utilized to demonstrate the effect of red blood cells on hemodynamics in complex coronary arteries and investigate the consequence of their motion. To investigate the effect of red blood cell movement on flow, the dense discrete phase model (DDPM) was used. This simulation was performed in 3D coronary arteries with different degrees of stenosis, utilizing blood pressure as inlet and outlet boundary conditions while assuming the arterial wall to be rigid. The model prediction shows good agreement with experimental data. Velocity values were comparable in both single-phase and two-phase flow simulations, but the shear stress in two-phase modeling had higher values. In the two-phase DDPM modeling, the recirculation areas indicated a higher probability of atherosclerosis plaque re-formation in the pre-stenosis area compared to the stenosis and post-stenosis areas. The DDPM model was found to be more effective in obtaining shear stress values in the artery. Additionally, this model provides good results compared to the single-phase model in investigating the movement of particles along the artery as well as recirculation areas that lead to the deposition of particles.

Citation: Valizadeh Z, et al. Eulerian- lagrangian dense discrete phase model (DDPM) of stenotic LAD coronary arteries in comparison with single phase modeling. Eulerian- lagrangian dense discrete phase model (DDPM) of stenotic LAD coronary arteries in comparison with single phase modeling. 2024; 128:104164. doi: 10.1016/j.medengphy.2024.104164

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38789211/
