PMID: 38783928
Title: Long-term efficacy, safety and biocompatibility of a novel sirolimus eluting iron bioresorbable scaffold in a porcine model.

Abstract: Iron is considered as an attractive alternative material for bioresorbable scaffolds (BRS). The sirolimus eluting iron bioresorbable scaffold (IBS), developed by Biotyx Medical (Shenzhen, China), is the only iron-based BRS with an ultrathin-wall design. The study aims to investigate the long-term efficacy, safety, biocompatibility, and lumen changes during the biodegradation process of the IBS in a porcine model. A total of 90 IBSs and 70 cobalt-chromium everolimus eluting stents (EES) were randomly implanted into nonatherosclerotic coronary artery of healthy mini swine. The multimodality assessments including coronary angiography, optical coherence tomography, micro-computed tomography, magnetic resonance imaging, real-time polymerase chain reaction (PCR), and histopathological evaluations, were performed at different time points. There was no statistical difference in area stenosis between IBS group and EES group at 6 months, 1year, 2 years and 5 years. Although the scaffolded vessels narrowed at 9 months, expansive remodeling with increased mean lumen area was found at 3 and 5 years. The IBS struts remained intact at 6 months, and the corrosion was detectable at 9 months. At 5 years, the iron struts were completely degraded and absorbed in situ, without in-scaffold restenosis or thrombosis, lumen collapse, aneurysm formation, and chronic inflammation. No local or systemic toxicity and abnormal histopathologic manifestation were found in all experiments. Results from real-time PCR indicated that no sign of iron overload was reported in scaffolded segments. Therefore, the IBS shows comparable efficacy, safety, and biocompatibility with EES, and late lumen enlargement is considered as a unique feature in the IBS-implanted vessels.

Citation: Gao YN, et al. Long-term efficacy, safety and biocompatibility of a novel sirolimus eluting iron bioresorbable scaffold in a porcine model. Long-term efficacy, safety and biocompatibility of a novel sirolimus eluting iron bioresorbable scaffold in a porcine model. 2024; 39:135-146. doi: 10.1016/j.bioactmat.2024.05.027

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38783928/
