PMID: 38781486
Title: Flow Diversion Effect in a Saphenous Vein Graft Aneurysm Using a Double-Layer Micromesh Stent: A Case Report.

Abstract: BACKGROUND AND IMPORTANCE: A double-layer micromesh stent is designed for the treatment of carotid artery stenosis that has been reported to potentially provide a flow diversion effect. However, the actual flow diversion effect of stents remains unclear. Here, we present a case of a growing saphenous vein graft (SVG) aneurysm treated with the placement of the double-layer micromesh stent using its flow diversion effect.
CLINICAL PRESENTATION: A 66-year-old woman, who underwent high-flow bypass using a SVG for a blister-like internal carotid artery aneurysm 13 years earlier at our institute, was referred to our hospital with a pulsatile cervical mass. Magnetic resonance angiography showed a 9-mm aneurysm on the left SVG, although the aneurysm was a small pouch 4 years earlier. Digital subtracted angiography demonstrated a 9.4 × 8.3-mm aneurysm from the SVG at the auricular level. Because the diameter of the graft was larger than that of the available flow diverter stents in Japan, we decided to place the double-layer micromesh stent (CASPER RX, 7 × 25 mm MicroVention) using its flow diversion effect. Computational fluid dynamics analysis before and after stent deployment showed a significant reduction in the average flow velocity and wall shear stress in the aneurysm, indicating actual flow diversion. An angiogram 2 months postoperatively showed complete obliteration of the aneurysm.
CONCLUSION: Obliteration of the saphenous vein aneurysm was achieved because of the flow diversion effect of the double-layer micromesh stent. The stents might be a feasible alternative for treating cervical carotid aneurysms.

Citation: Dobashi K, et al. Flow Diversion Effect in a Saphenous Vein Graft Aneurysm Using a Double-Layer Micromesh Stent: A Case Report. Flow Diversion Effect in a Saphenous Vein Graft Aneurysm Using a Double-Layer Micromesh Stent: A Case Report. 2024; (unknown volume):(unknown pages). doi: 10.1227/ons.0000000000001216

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38781486/
