PMID: 38788303
Title: Safety and efficacy of minimal transcatheter aortic valve replacement: A systematic review and meta-analysis.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Transcatheter aortic valve replacement (TAVR) is a preferred treatment for patients with highly critical aortic stenosis (AS), which is a difficult and complicated procedure, leaving a heavy economical burden on patients and national health insurance. Minimalist TAVR can simplify a part of the operation procedures, but the surgical efficacy and safety are still under debated.
OBJECTIVES: Explore the effectiveness and safety of minimalist TAVR in the treatment of patients with aortic stenosis.
METHODS: A systematic search of PubMed, Web of Science, and Embase databases was conducted for studies involving application of minimalist TAVR in patients with severe aortic stenosis, two researchers independently screened the literature, extracted data and Meta-analysis was performed using STATA 16.0 software.
RESULTS: Nine studies, involving a total of 3,148 AS patients, were included. Minimalist TAVR has similar surgical success rates compared to standardized TAVR, intraoperative fluoroscopy time, dosage of contrast agent, and total operative time were superior to standard TAVR. Regarding surgical complications, the incidence of permanent pacemaker placement and moderate to severe paravalvular leakage were similar for both TAVR, the risk of major vascular complications and major bleeding events in the minimalist TAVR was significantly lower than the standard TAVR. The risk of overall death, stroke, and cardiovascular-related readmission within 30 days was similar in both procedures.
CONCLUSION: Patients with severe aortic stenosis treated with minimalist TAVR have similar short-term efficacy as well as 30-day clinical outcomes to standard TAVR, while minimalist TAVR could reduce the risk of major vascular complications and bleeding complications.

Citation: Yifan D, et al. Safety and efficacy of minimal transcatheter aortic valve replacement: A systematic review and meta-analysis. Safety and efficacy of minimal transcatheter aortic valve replacement: A systematic review and meta-analysis. 2024; 67:158-168. doi: 10.1016/j.hrtlng.2024.05.008

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38788303/
