PMID: 38786968
Title: Role of Lipoprotein Ratios and Remnant Cholesterol in Patients with Myocardial Infarction with Non-Obstructive Coronary Arteries (MINOCA).

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Myocardial infarction with non-obstructive coronary arteries (MINOCA) is a clinical situation characterized by evidence of acute myocardial infarction (AMI)-according to the Fourth Universal Definition of Myocardial Infarction-with normal or near-normal coronary arteries on angiographic study (stenosis < 50%). This condition is extremely variable in etiology, pathogenic mechanisms, clinical manifestations, prognosis and consequently therapeutic approach.
OBJECTIVE: The objective of the study was the evaluation of remnant cholesterol (RC), monocyte/high-density lipoprotein cholesterol ratio (MHR), platelet/lymphocyte ratio (PLR) and various lipoprotein ratios in patients with MINOCA in order to establish their validity as predictors of this event.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: We included 114 patients hospitalized in the Intensive Coronary Care Unit (ICCU) and Hospital Wards of our Hospital Center from 2015 to 2019 who received a diagnosis of MINOCA compared to a control group of 110 patients without previous cardiovascular events. RC was calculated with the following formula: RC = total cholesterol (TC) - HDL-C - LDL-C. MHR was calculated by dividing the monocyte count in peripheral blood by high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL-C) levels; PLR was obtained by dividing platelet count by lymphocyte count. We also calculated various lipoprotein ratios, like total cholesterol/high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (TC/HDL-C), low-density lipoprotein cholesterol/high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C/HDL-C), triglycerides/high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (TG/HDL-C), and non-high-density lipoprotein cholesterol/high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (non-HDL-C/HDL-C) ratios.
RESULTS: The MINOCA group had higher mean levels of RC (21.3 ± 10.6 vs. 13.2 ± 7.7 mg/dL), MHR (23 ± 0.009 vs. 18.5± 8.3) and PLR (179.8 ± 246.1 vs. 135 ± 64.7) than the control group. Only the mean values of all calculated lipoprotein ratios were lower in MINOCA patients. Statistical significance was achieved only in the RC evaluation.
CONCLUSIONS: Higher levels of RC and MHR were found in patients with MINOCA. We also observed higher levels of PLR than in the control group. Only various lipoprotein ratios were lower, but this could reflect the extreme heterogeneity underlying the pathogenic mechanisms of MINOCA. In patients who receive a diagnosis of MINOCA with a baseline alteration of the lipid profile and higher levels of cholesterol at admission as well, the evaluation of these parameters could play an important role, providing more detailed information about their cardiometabolic risk.

Citation: Sucato V, et al. Role of Lipoprotein Ratios and Remnant Cholesterol in Patients with Myocardial Infarction with Non-Obstructive Coronary Arteries (MINOCA). Role of Lipoprotein Ratios and Remnant Cholesterol in Patients with Myocardial Infarction with Non-Obstructive Coronary Arteries (MINOCA). 2024; 11:(unknown pages). doi: 10.3390/jcdd11050146

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38786968/
