PMID: 38785455
Title: A Case of Severe Lethal Allergic Reaction Caused by Iodixanol After Digital Subtraction Angiography.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Severe lethal allergic reactions triggered by iodixanol following digital subtraction angiography (DSA) are rare. The majority of skin reactions associated with iodixanol were mild, and the prognosis was favorable. Moreover, a case of serious skin adverse events caused by iodixanol has been documented.
METHODS: A 61-year-old woman underwent surgery for a cerebral hemorrhage in another hospital. Upon the surgery, the patient's state of impaired consciousness did not show any improvement. Head computed tomography angiography on admission: right middle cerebral artery M1 segment enlargement, left posterior cerebral artery P2 stenosis. Following undergoing DSA with iodixanol, the patient experienced severe and fatal drug eruptions, which represents a serious and uncommon complication associated with iodixanol.
RESULTS: This paper describes the experience in the treatment and nursing of severe allergic reactions. Despite the fact that the patient was discharged automatically and eventually died, there are valuable lessons to be learned from this case that can inform and guide future clinical practices.
CONCLUSIONS: Iodixanol adverse reactions were rare, and severe fatal adverse reactions were seldom reported. Consequently, the authors conclude that the potential adverse reaction risk of iodixanol contrast agent should be taken into consideration in future endeavors, and the skin and allergy of patients should be monitored following DSA. In an allergy, prompt and proactive treatment is essential to prevent worsening and dissemination.

Citation: Xie Y, et al. A Case of Severe Lethal Allergic Reaction Caused by Iodixanol After Digital Subtraction Angiography. A Case of Severe Lethal Allergic Reaction Caused by Iodixanol After Digital Subtraction Angiography. 2024; 35:e461-e463. doi: 10.1097/SCS.0000000000010286

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38785455/
