PMID: 38782971
Title: Deep-learning-based sampling position selection on color Doppler sonography images during renal artery ultrasound scanning.

Abstract: Accurate selection of sampling positions is critical in renal artery ultrasound examinations, and the potential of utilizing deep learning (DL) for assisting in this selection has not been previously evaluated. This study aimed to evaluate the effectiveness of DL object detection technology applied to color Doppler sonography (CDS) images in assisting sampling position selection. A total of 2004 patients who underwent renal artery ultrasound examinations were included in the study. CDS images from these patients were categorized into four groups based on the scanning position: abdominal aorta (AO), normal renal artery (NRA), renal artery stenosis (RAS), and intrarenal interlobular artery (IRA). Seven object detection models, including three two-stage models (Faster R-CNN, Cascade R-CNN, and Double Head R-CNN) and four one-stage models (RetinaNet, YOLOv3, FoveaBox, and Deformable DETR), were trained to predict the sampling position, and their predictive accuracies were compared. The Double Head R-CNN model exhibited significantly higher average accuracies on both parameter optimization and validation datasets (89.3 ± 0.6% and 88.5 ± 0.3%, respectively) compared to other methods. On clinical validation data, the predictive accuracies of the Double Head R-CNN model for all four types of images were significantly higher than those of the other methods. The DL object detection model shows promise in assisting inexperienced physicians in improving the accuracy of sampling position selection during renal artery ultrasound examinations.

Citation: Wang X, et al. Deep-learning-based sampling position selection on color Doppler sonography images during renal artery ultrasound scanning. Deep-learning-based sampling position selection on color Doppler sonography images during renal artery ultrasound scanning. 2024; 14:11768. doi: 10.1038/s41598-024-60355-5

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38782971/
