PMID: 38795313
Title: Innovative technologies in thoracolumbar and lumbar spine surgery failing to reach standard of care: state-of-art review.

Abstract: PURPOSE: To evaluate previously popular technologies in the field of spine surgery, and to better understand their advantages and limitations to the current standards of care. Spine surgery is an ever-evolving field that serves to resolve various spinal pathologies in patients of all ages. While there are established treatments for various conditions, such as lumbar spinal stenosis, idiopathic scoliosis, and degenerative lumbar disease, there is always further research and development in these areas to produce innovative technologies that can lead to better outcomes. As this process progresses, we must remind ourselves of previously tried and tested inventions and their outcomes that have fallen short of becoming a standard to ensure we are able to learn lessons from the past.
METHODS: A thorough literature review was conducted with the aim of compiling literature of previously utilized technologies in spine surgery. Biomedical databases were utilized to gather relevant articles including PubMed, MEDLINE, and EMBASE. Emphasis was placed on gathering articles with technologies or therapeutics aimed at treating common spinal pathologies including lumbar spinal stenosis (LSS), adolescent idiopathic scoliosis (AIS), and other degenerative lumbar spine diseases. The keywords used were: "failed technologies", "historical technologies", "spine surgery", "spinal stenosis", "adolescent idiopathic scoliosis", and "degenerative lumbar spine disease". A total of 47 articles were gathered after initial review.
RESULTS: Different technologies pertaining to spine surgery were identified and critically evaluated. Some of these technologies included X-STOP, Vertiflex, Vertebral Body Stapling, and Dynesys. These technologies were evaluated for their strengths and limitations across their spinal pathology applications. While each type of technology had their benefits, the data tended to be mixed with various limitations across studies.
CONCLUSION: These technologies have been trialed in the field of spine surgery across various spinal pathologies, but still prove of limited efficacy and shortcomings to the current standards of care.

Citation: Katiyar P, et al. Innovative technologies in thoracolumbar and lumbar spine surgery failing to reach standard of care: state-of-art review. Innovative technologies in thoracolumbar and lumbar spine surgery failing to reach standard of care: state-of-art review. 2024; 12:1521-1527. doi: 10.1007/s43390-024-00898-9

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38795313/
