PMID: 38790967
Title: Improved Ultrasound-Guided Balloon-Assisted Maturation Angioplasty Using Drug-Eluting Balloons in the First Autogenous Arteriovenous Fistula Procedure: Early Experience.

Abstract: In patients with end-stage renal failure requiring hemodialysis, autogenous arteriovenous fistula (AVF) is preferred over tunneled dialysis catheters due to lower complications and costs. However, AVF maturation failure remains a common issue due to small vein size, multiple venipunctures, and other factors. Guidelines recommend using vessels of >2 mm for forearm AVFs and >3 mm for upper arm AVFs. This study investigates the use of intraoperative Doppler ultrasound (DUS)-guided Balloon-Assisted Maturation (BAM) with drug-eluting balloons (DEB) during initial AVF creation. Data from 114 AVF procedures, of which 27.2% underwent BAM, were analyzed. BAM was performed in 25 distal radio-cephalic and 6 proximal brachio-cephalic AVFs. With DUS guidance, vein stenosis was identified and treated using DEB. Technical success was achieved in all cases, with no early mortality. Early BAM-related complications were minimal, and no AVF thrombosis occurred. AVF maturation time was 15 days (SD: 3), and no further complications were reported during a mean follow-up of 10.38 months. Using BAM with DEB during AVF creation led to successful maturation and dialysis use without the need for secondary procedures. This study emphasizes the importance of identifying AVF failure risk early and utilizing DUS-guided procedures to enhance AVF outcomes. A more liberal use of intraoperative BAM could limit reinterventions in patients undergoing AVFs.

Citation: Mirabella D, et al. Improved Ultrasound-Guided Balloon-Assisted Maturation Angioplasty Using Drug-Eluting Balloons in the First Autogenous Arteriovenous Fistula Procedure: Early Experience. Improved Ultrasound-Guided Balloon-Assisted Maturation Angioplasty Using Drug-Eluting Balloons in the First Autogenous Arteriovenous Fistula Procedure: Early Experience. 2024; 12:(unknown pages). doi: 10.3390/biomedicines12051005

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38790967/
