PMID: 38797288
Title: Identification of toll-like receptor 2 as a key regulator of neuronal apoptosis in vascular dementia by bioinformatics analysis and experimental validation.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Vascular dementia (VaD), the second most prevalent type of dementia, lacks a well-defined cause and effective treatment. Our objective was to utilize bioinformatics analysis to discover the fundamental disease-causing genes and pathological mechanisms in individuals diagnosed with VaD.
METHODS: To identify potential pathogenic genes associated with VaD, we conducted weighted gene co-expression network analysis (WGCNA), differential expression analysis, and protein-protein interaction (PPI) analysis. The exploration of potential biological mechanisms involved the utilization of Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) and Gene Ontology (GO) analysis. Moreover, a bilateral common carotid artery stenosis (BCAS) mouse model of VaD was established, and the expression of the hub gene, its relationship with cognitive function and its potential pathogenic mechanism were verified by cognitive behavior tests, cerebral blood flow measurement, Western blotting, and immunofluorescence experiments.
RESULTS: This study identified 293 DEGs from the brain cortex of VaD patients and healthy controls, among these genes, the Toll-like receptor 2 (TLR2) gene was identified as hub gene, and it was associated with the apoptosis-related pathway PI3K/AKT.The BCAS model demonstrated that the use of TLR2 inhibitors greatly enhanced the cognitive function of the mice (p < 0.05). Additionally, there was a notable decrease in the number of apoptotic cells in the brain cortex of the mice (p < 0.01). Moreover, significant alterations in the levels of proteins related to the PI3K/AKT pathway and cleaved-caspase3 proteins were detected (p < 0.05).
CONCLUSIONS: TLR2 plays a role in the pathophysiology of VaD by enhancing the neuronal apoptotic pathway, suggesting it could be a promising therapeutic target.

Citation: Yan B, et al. Identification of toll-like receptor 2 as a key regulator of neuronal apoptosis in vascular dementia by bioinformatics analysis and experimental validation. Identification of toll-like receptor 2 as a key regulator of neuronal apoptosis in vascular dementia by bioinformatics analysis and experimental validation. 2024; 193:112464. doi: 10.1016/j.exger.2024.112464

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38797288/
