PMID: 38795409
Title: Delayed symptomatic TFV in neonatal posthemorrhagic hydrocephalus-pathophysiology and therapeutic strategy: A case report and review of the literature.

Abstract: INTRODUCTION: Trapped fourth ventricle (TFV), which is a rare neurosurgical condition with multifactorial etiology, requires a prompt diagnosis and appropriate therapeutic method selection. We report a case of post-hemorrhagic hydrocephalus and TFV incited/worsened by prematurity, sepsis, acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS), mechanical ventilation, and concomitant fourth ventricle outlets stenosis; which displayed a delayed onset. This article addresses the proposed pathophysiology and the clinical importance of appropriate therapeutic strategies with a mini-review of the literature.
CASE PRESENTATION: We encountered a case involving a premature Asian male newborn with sepsis and posthemorrhagic hydrocephalus who required ventriculoperitoneal shunt surgery. However, after three years, the baby was diagnosed with a trapped fourth ventricle and subsequently underwent retrograde endoscopic surgery with stent insertion.
DISCUSSION: TFV is traditionally known as a complication of lateral ventricle shunting. However, in rare cases such as our neonate patient, it develops as a consequence of multiple pathophysiological processes including ventricular system inflammation along with associated anatomic and physiologic alterations, which necessitates prompt diagnosis and a case-specific therapeutic strategy.
CONCLUSION: Understanding the multifactorial pathophysiological mechanisms leading to the development of TFV is crucial. The presence of comorbidities such as prematurity, neonatal sepsis, and ARDS increased the risk of intraventricular hemorrhage and subsequent inflammation and further exacerbated obstructions in cerebrospinal fluid pathways. When posthemorrhagic TFV is accompanied by collapsed lateral ventricles, the optimal treatment approach is retrograde endoscopic fenestration with stent insertion. This treatment option has proven effective in alleviating the condition and restoring proper cerebrospinal fluid flow.

Citation: Mosleh MM, et al. Delayed symptomatic TFV in neonatal posthemorrhagic hydrocephalus-pathophysiology and therapeutic strategy: A case report and review of the literature. Delayed symptomatic TFV in neonatal posthemorrhagic hydrocephalus-pathophysiology and therapeutic strategy: A case report and review of the literature. 2024; 120:109749. doi: 10.1016/j.ijscr.2024.109749

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38795409/
