PMID: 38793037
Title: New Insight into Laryngo-Tracheal Surgery: High-Flow Oxygen Therapy to Prevent Early Complications after Surgery.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Early post-operative airway management after laryngo-tracheal surgery is crucial. Acute respiratory failure due to glottis' edema may occur, requiring reintubation. This can prolong ventilatory assistance, jeopardizing anastomosis. To date, only judicious steroid administration and fluid management are available to avoid more invasive procedures. High-flow oxygen therapy (HFOT) is a noninvasive O<sub>2</sub> support method providing humidification, warmed air, and Positive End-Expiratory Pressure (AIRVO2). No data about HFOT use to prevent early complications after laryngo-tracheal surgery are reported in the literature.
METHODS: Between September 2020 and September 2022, 107 consecutive patients who underwent laryngo-tracheal surgery received HFOT (Group A). Data and long-term results were compared with those of 80 patients operated between September 2018 and August 2020 (Group B), when HFOT was not available. All patients were operated in a single center. No pre- or post-operative settings changed, except for HFOT introduction. We analyzed and compared the risk for "delayed" reintubation (unexpected reintubation within the first 24-48 h after extubating/laryngeal mask removal) in the two groups.
RESULTS: No patients reported HFOT-related adverse events. The control group (B) presented "delayed" reintubation in 37% (p = 0.027), intensive care unit admission in 67% (p = 0.005) and longer hospital stay (p = 0.001) compared to the HFOT group (A). The minor complications' rate was 3% in both group and overall mortality was 0%. Re-stenosis was described in 4.6% of the HFOT group, without a statistically significant difference (p = 0.7006).
CONCLUSIONS: Our study is the first to investigate HFOT use in patients undergoing laryngo-tracheal surgery, potentially representing a consistent innovation in the peri-operative management of these patients. With the limitation of a retrospective series, we would suggest HFOT use for preventing post-operative reintubation rate, possibly reducing ICU admissions and hospital stays.

Citation: Trabalza Marinucci B, et al. New Insight into Laryngo-Tracheal Surgery: High-Flow Oxygen Therapy to Prevent Early Complications after Surgery. New Insight into Laryngo-Tracheal Surgery: High-Flow Oxygen Therapy to Prevent Early Complications after Surgery. 2024; 14:(unknown pages). doi: 10.3390/jpm14050456

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38793037/
