PMID: 38809253
Title: Systematic review and meta-analysis of the impact of sex on outcomes after aortic valve replacement.

Abstract: AIMS: In recent years, extensive literature has been produced demonstrating inferior outcomes for women when compared with men undergoing heart valve interventions. Herein, we seek to analyze the literature comparing outcomes between men and women undergoing surgical aortic valve replacement (SAVR).
METHODS: A systematic literature search of PubMed, MEDLINE, and Embase was conducted for articles comparing differences in outcomes between adult men and women undergoing SAVR. One thousand nine hundred and ninety titles were screened, of which 75 full texts were reviewed, and a total of 19 manuscripts met the inclusion criteria and were included in this review.
RESULTS: Pooled estimates of mortality demonstrated that women tended to have lower rates of survival within the first 30 days post-SAVR, although mid-term and long-term mortality did not differ significantly up to 10 years postoperatively. Pooled estimates of postoperative data indicated no difference in the rates of stroke and postoperative bleeding. Rates of aortic valve reoperation and acute kidney injury favored women.
CONCLUSION: Despite the inferior outcomes for women post-SAVR that have been reported in recent years, the results of this meta-analysis demonstrate comparable results between the sexes with comparable mid- to long-term mortality in data pooled from the literature. Although mortality favored men in the short term, rates of aortic valve reoperation and acute kidney injury favored women. Future investigation into this field should focus on identifying discrepancies in diagnosis and initial surgical management in order to address any potential factors contributing to discrepant short-term outcomes.
GRAPHICAL ABSTRACT: http://links.lww.com/JCM/A651.

Citation: El-Andari R, et al. Systematic review and meta-analysis of the impact of sex on outcomes after aortic valve replacement. Systematic review and meta-analysis of the impact of sex on outcomes after aortic valve replacement. 2024; 25:539-550. doi: 10.2459/JCM.0000000000001635

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38809253/
