PMID: 38817055
Title: Factors contributing to patency after aneurysmorrhaphy and outflow repair in arteriovenous fistula aneurysm treatment.

Abstract: INTRODUCTION: Vascular access-related aneurysms (VARA) are a complication of arteriovenous fistulas. Repair techniques have been described in the literature with varied outcomes.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: We conducted a prospective cohort study on patients who had VARA repair over 41 months. The indication for repair was an aneurysmal arteriovenous fistula (AVF) at risk of haemorrhage or difficulty in cannulation. Pseudoaneurysms, infected AVF and bleeding VARA were excluded. All patients underwent outflow stenosis treatment when present, followed by aneurysmorrhaphy. They were monitored periodically over 12 months, measuring functional primary and cumulative patency and access flow. We studied the patient demography, access flow and presence of outflow stenosis. Access flow was measured from the brachial artery (Qa) as a surrogate using ultrasonography. A Kaplan-Meier survival analysis was used to predict the primary and cumulative patency at 12 months and factors contributing to 12-month patency were analysed.
RESULTS: A total of 64 patients were recruited for this study, of whom 58 completed the study. Most of the participants were male (67%) with a median age of 45 years. Forty-six patients (79.3%) had brachiocephalic fistula (BCF) aneurysms. Thirty-nine (67.2%) had preexisting outflow stenoses that required intervention. All patients underwent an aneurysmorrhaphy, of whom 12% had a cephalic arch vein transposition due to severe stenosis. Primary patency at 12 months was 86%, whereas the cumulative patency rate was 95%. Patency was significantly associated with younger age and showed a positive trend with higher preintervention Qa. Symptomatic recurrent stenosis developed in 17.2% of the cohort.
CONCLUSION: Improving the patency of VARA entails the treatment of outflow stenosis and aneurysmorrhaphy. Surveillance is important to detect and treat recurrent outflow stenoses. The outcome is better among younger patients with pre-interventional access flow as measured in the brachial artery as a surrogate.

Citation: Sunil SP, et al. Factors contributing to patency after aneurysmorrhaphy and outflow repair in arteriovenous fistula aneurysm treatment. Factors contributing to patency after aneurysmorrhaphy and outflow repair in arteriovenous fistula aneurysm treatment. 2024; 79:245-250.

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38817055/
