PMID: 38813076
Title: Myosin Heavy Chain 7 (MYH7) Variant Associated Cardiovascular Disease: An Unusual Case of Heart Failure in a Young Male.

Abstract: A 37-year-old male with type two diabetes presented to the hospital with new-onset heart failure and renal dysfunction. His left ventricular (LV) ejection fraction was less than 10%. Transthoracic echocardiography and cardiovascular magnetic resonance (CMR) imaging also revealed severe bicuspid aortic valve stenosis, dilated cardiomyopathy with LV hypertrophy, prominent LV trabeculations, and features suggestive of mild myocarditis with active inflammation. While myocarditis was suspected on CMR imaging, his mild degree of myocardial involvement did not explain the entirety of his clinical presentation, degree of LV dysfunction, or other structural abnormalities. An extensive work-up for his LV dysfunction was unremarkable for ischemic, metabolic, infiltrative, infectious, toxic, oncologic, connective tissue, and autoimmune etiologies. Genetic testing was positive for a myosin heavy chain 7 (MYH7) variant, which was deemed likely to be a unifying etiology underlying his presentation. The MYH7 sarcomere gene allows beta-myosin expression in heart ventricles, with variants associated with hypertrophic and dilated cardiomyopathies, congenital heart diseases, myocarditis, and excessive trabeculation (formerly known as left ventricular noncompaction). This case highlights the diverse array of cardiac pathologies that can present with MYH7 gene variants and reviews an extensive work-up for this unusual presentation of heart failure in a young patient.

Citation: Latchupatula L, et al. Myosin Heavy Chain 7 (MYH7) Variant Associated Cardiovascular Disease: An Unusual Case of Heart Failure in a Young Male. Myosin Heavy Chain 7 (MYH7) Variant Associated Cardiovascular Disease: An Unusual Case of Heart Failure in a Young Male. 2024; 16:e61252. doi: 10.7759/cureus.61252

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38813076/
