PMID: 38811095
Title: Transcatheter Covered Stent Exclusion of Superior Sinus Venosus Defects.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Transcatheter correction of sinus venosus defects (SVDs) using balloon-mounted covered stents provides an attractive surgical alternative. Surgery may be complicated by superior vena caval or right upper pulmonary vein (RUPV) stenosis, sinus nodal dysfunction, and residual additional pulmonary veins.
OBJECTIVES: Being a new intervention, technical modifications would simplify the procedure, improve universal applicability, and reduce or tackle complications.
METHODS: Patients were included if balloon interrogation of cavoatrial junction confirmed closure of SVD and redirected RUPV to the left atrium. A single-center experience was analyzed to summarize the procedural modifications over 8 years. Transesophageal echocardiogram (TEE) on follow-up was done to identify residual shunt, RUPV flows, and stent thrombosis.
RESULTS: A total of 100 patients including 9 children with a median age of 35 years (range, 4-69 years) underwent SVD closure after balloon interrogation. Among 57 patients balloon interrogated in the first 5 years, 70% underwent transcatheter closure, with 2 failures. RUPV occlusion caused the exclusions. Inclusions improved to 94% among the subsequent 65 balloon interrogations when RUPV protection was implemented, with 1 failure. Stent embolization caused the 3 failures warranting surgery. Recent modifications included limited transesophageal echocardiogram without anesthesia, avoiding venovenous circuit, interrogation with semicompliant balloons, trans-septal RUPV protection, overlapping stents to permit additional vein drainage to superior vena cava and tackle embolizations. There were no deaths. Minor complications included stent embolizations stabilized in catheterization laboratory in 2 patients, left innominate vein jailing in 2 patients, insignificant residual flows, and nonocclusive asymptomatic stent thrombosis in 4 patients.
CONCLUSIONS: Procedural success was 97%. Recent modifications increased patient inclusions, decreased complications, and simplified the intervention.

Citation: Sagar P, et al. Transcatheter Covered Stent Exclusion of Superior Sinus Venosus Defects. Transcatheter Covered Stent Exclusion of Superior Sinus Venosus Defects. 2024; 83:2179-2192. doi: 10.1016/j.jacc.2024.03.417

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38811095/
