PMID: 38813819
Title: Simulation-guided auscultatory training before graduation is associated with better auscultatory skills in residents.

Abstract: INTRODUCTION: A growing body of scientific evidence shows that simulation-guided auscultatory training can significantly improve the skills of medical students. Nevertheless, it remains to be elucidated if this training has any long-term impact on auscultatory skills. We sought to ascertain whether there were differences in heart and lung auscultation among residents who received simulation-guided auscultatory training before graduation vs. those who did not.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: A total of 43 residents were included in the study; 20 of them entered into Cardiology specialty school (C) and 23 of them entered into Internal and Occupational Medicine specialty schools (M) at the University of Trieste. Based on the history of simulation-guided auscultatory training before graduation (yes = Y; no = N), four groups were formed: CY, CN, MY, and MN. Residents were evaluated in terms of their ability to recognize six heart and five lung sounds, which were reproduced in a random order with the Kyoto-Kagaku patient simulator. Associations between history of simulation training, specialty choice and auscultatory skills were evaluated with Kruskal-Wallis test and logistic regression analysis.
RESULTS: Auscultatory skills of residents were associated with simulation-guided training before graduation, regardless of the specialty chosen. Simulation-guided training had a higher impact on residents in Medicine. Overall, heart and lung sounds were correctly recognized in 41% of cases. Logistic regression analysis showed that simulation-guided training was associated with recognition of aortic stenosis, S2 wide split, fine crackles, and pleural rubs. Specialty choice was associated with recognition of aortic stenosis as well as aortic and mitral regurgitation.
DISCUSSION: History of simulation-guided auscultatory training was associated with better auscultatory performance in residents, regardless of the medical specialty chosen. Choice of Cardiology was associated with better scores in aortic stenosis as well as aortic and mitral regurgitation. Nevertheless, overall auscultatory proficiency was quite poor, which suggests that simulation-guided training may help but is probably still too short.

Citation: Bernardi S, et al. Simulation-guided auscultatory training before graduation is associated with better auscultatory skills in residents. Simulation-guided auscultatory training before graduation is associated with better auscultatory skills in residents. 2024; 25:623-631. doi: 10.2459/JCM.0000000000001642

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38813819/
