PMID: 38810225
Title: The role of the osteoprotegerin/RANKL/RANK axis and osteopontin in acute coronary syndrome.

Abstract: OBJECTIVES: The primary objective of this study is to ascertain the levels of osteoprotegerin (OPG) and osteopontin (OPN), alongside osteoprotegerin/RANKL ratio (ORR), and assess their association with the SYNTAX score and ascertain the potential of these molecules as predictive markers for risk, aiding in risk stratification. Eventually, they could potentially be employed even before angiography to gauge the severity of coronary lesions.
METHODS: Prospective study with 147 participants, 101 (69%) were men, with an average age of 60. We included three groups - (1) patients with acute coronary syndrome undergoing percutaneous coronary intervention (ACS-PCI), (2) patients without ACS who underwent coronary angiography for an indication other than ischemia and did not undergo PCI (non-ACS without), and (3) one asymptomatic subject. OPG and OPN were measured. ORR and SYNTAX scores were calculated. The association between OPG and OPN levels and important clinical variables was investigated.
RESULTS: OPG levels in Group 1 were lower compared to Groups 2 and 3 (controls), Group 1 (490 pg/mL) versus Group 2 (829 pg/mL) versus Group 3 (845 pg/mL) (p = 0.001). OPG had lower levels in patients with coronary artery stenosis versus without stenosis. A decrease in ORR was shown in all groups and no association with the SYNTAX score.
CONCLUSION: OPG and OPN (and ORR) levels are decreased in patients with ACS and show no correlation with the SYNTAX score. As an exploratory study, our work suggest that increased OPG and OPN levels in non-ACS patients may have, in fact, a protective effect. This study is one of the few with an appropriate control in ACS and reproducibility is necessary mainly with multicenter studies.

Citation: Vega-Rosales JA, et al. The role of the osteoprotegerin/RANKL/RANK axis and osteopontin in acute coronary syndrome. The role of the osteoprotegerin/RANKL/RANK axis and osteopontin in acute coronary syndrome. 2024; (unknown volume):(unknown pages). doi: 10.24875/ACM.24000037

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38810225/
