PMID: 38823367
Title: Degrees of Inflammation in the Treatment of Subglottic Stenosis in a Rabbit Model: Histopathological Assessment of a Novel Bioabsorbable Ultra-high Ductility Magnesium Alloy Stent.

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: Utilizing a novel histopathological scoring system and subglottic stenosis (SGS) rabbit model, we aimed to compare degrees of inflammation and severity of narrowing in the subglottis between two minimally invasive therapeutic modalities: endoscopic balloon dilation (EBD) alone versus EBD with placement of a bioabsorbable ultra-high ductility magnesium (UHD-Mg) alloy stent.
METHODS: SGS was induced endoscopically via microsuspension laryngoscopy in 23 New Zealand white rabbits. The control group (n = 11) underwent EBD alone, the study arm (n = 12) underwent EBD with implantation of bioabsorbable UHD-Mg alloy stents. Rabbits were euthanized at 2-, 3-, and 6-weeks after SGS induction, coinciding with wound healing stages. Using Optical Coherence Tomography (OCT), cross-sectional areas of airways were compared to calculate the mean percentage of intraluminal area at sequential time points. A novel histopathological scoring system was used to analyze frozen sections of laryngotracheal complexes. The degree of inflammation was quantified by scoring changes in inflammatory cell infiltration, epithelial ulceration/metaplasia, subepithelial edema/fibrosis, and capillary number/dilation. Univariate analysis was utilized to analyze these markers.
RESULTS: We found rabbits implanted with the bioabsorbable UHD-Mg alloy stent had statistically significantly higher scores in categories of hyperplastic change (stents vs controls: 1.48 vs 0.46 p < 0.001), squamous metaplasia (22 vs 5 p < 0.001), and neutrophils/fibrin in lumen (31 vs 8, p < 0.001). Rabbits who received EBD alone had higher scores of subepithelial edema and fibrosis (2.70 vs 3.49, p < 0.0256). The stented rabbits demonstrated significantly increased mean percent stenosis by intraluminal mean area compared to controls at 2 weeks (88.56 vs 58.98, p = 0.032), however at all other time points there was no significant difference between intraluminal subglottic stenosis by mean percent stenosis area.
DISCUSSION: Rabbits with SGS treated with UHD-Mg alloy stents demonstrated histopathologic findings suggestive of lower levels of tracheal fibrosis. This could indicate a reduced tendency towards the development of stenosis when compared to EBD alone. There was not a difference in luminal size between stent and non-stented rabbits at the six-week end point. Histologically, however, overall the use of bioabsorbable UHD-Mg alloy stenting elicited a greater tissue response at the level of the superficial mucosa rather than fibrosis of the lamina propria seen in the stented rabbits. This suggests more favorable healing and less of a tendency towards fibrosis and stenosis even though there may not be a benefit from a luminal size standpoint during this early healing period. Compared to known complications of currently available non-bioabsorbable metal or silicone-based stents, this proof-of-concept investigation highlights the potential use of a novel biodegradable UHD-Mg stent as a therapeutic modality for pediatric SGS.

Citation: McCarty EB, et al. Degrees of Inflammation in the Treatment of Subglottic Stenosis in a Rabbit Model: Histopathological Assessment of a Novel Bioabsorbable Ultra-high Ductility Magnesium Alloy Stent. Degrees of Inflammation in the Treatment of Subglottic Stenosis in a Rabbit Model: Histopathological Assessment of a Novel Bioabsorbable Ultra-high Ductility Magnesium Alloy Stent. 2024; 181:111994. doi: 10.1016/j.ijporl.2024.111994

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38823367/
