PMID: 38822435
Title: Endovascular stenting using a sagittal sinus approach for sigmoid sinus wall dehiscence related to intractable pulsatile tinnitus: a case series.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Sigmoid sinus wall dehiscence can lead to pulsatile tinnitus with a significant decrease in quality of life, occasionally leading to psychiatric disorders. Several surgical and endovascular procedures have been described for resolving dehiscence. Within endovascular procedures, the sagittal sinus approach could be a technical alternative for tracking and accurate stent positioning within the sigmoid sinus when the jugular bulb anatomy is unfavorable.
CASE PRESENTATION: A retrospective case series of three patients with pulsatile tinnitus due to sigmoid sinus wall dehiscence without intracranial hypertension was reviewed from January 2018 to January 2022. From the participants enrolled, the median age was 50.3 years (range 43-63), with 67% self-identifying as female and 33% as male. They self-identified as Hispanic. Sigmoid sinus dehiscence was diagnosed using angiotomography, and contralateral transverse sinus stenosis was observed in all patients. Patients underwent surgery via a navigated endovascular sagittal sinus approach for sigmoid sinus stenting. No neurological complications were associated with the procedure. Pulsatile tinnitus improved after the procedure in all patients.
CONCLUSIONS: Superior sagittal sinus resection for sigmoid sinus wall stenting is a safe and effective technique. Pulsatile tinnitus due to sigmoid sinus wall dehiscence could be treated using the endovascular resurfacing stenting technique. However, further research is needed to evaluate the potential benefit of contralateral stenting for removing sinus dehiscence when venous stenosis is detected. However, resurfacing sigmoid sinus wall dehiscence results in symptomatic improvement.

Citation: Ortega-Porcayo LA, et al. Endovascular stenting using a sagittal sinus approach for sigmoid sinus wall dehiscence related to intractable pulsatile tinnitus: a case series. Endovascular stenting using a sagittal sinus approach for sigmoid sinus wall dehiscence related to intractable pulsatile tinnitus: a case series. 2024; 18:266. doi: 10.1186/s13256-024-04591-3

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38822435/
