PMID: 38820945
Title: Disc-coloration of an ochronotic cervical intervertebral disc in a patient with alkaptonuria: Case report and review of the literature.

Abstract: OBJECTIVES: Alkaptonuria is a rare inborn disorder of phenylalanine and tyrosine metabolism. It is characterized by an accumulation of homogentisic acid and its oxidation products, possibly resulting into connective tissue damaging. "Ochronosis" is a main feature, which is characterized by tissue discoloration and even alkaptonuric arthropathy. Cervical spine involvement is exceptional and there is a paucity of reports on surgical interventions in these patients. We explored the literature concerning cervical spine involvement in patients with alkaptonuria.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: We performed a review of the literature, in which patients with alkaptonuric degenerative changes of the cervical spine were examined. Articles were obtained from MEDLINE. Search terms included: "cervical", "alkaptonuria", "alkaptonuric changes" and "black disc". Additional studies were identified by checking reference lists. Furthermore, we present the case of a 46 year old patient with critical cervical spinal canal stenosis who underwent C6-C7 anterior cervical microdiscectomy and interbody fusion, in order to prevent myelopathic changes. CARE statement guidelines were followed.
RESULTS: Peroperatively, we did not encounter any macroscopic abnormalities of the skin, muscles or ligaments. A black discoloration of the nucleus pulposus was observed. Peroperative and postoperative course was uneventful.
CONCLUSION: Alkaptonuric degenerative abnormalities most commonly involve the lumbar spine, although the cervical spine can be affected in rare cases. Most frequently, the diagnosis of alkaptonuria can be made based on the clinical phenotype many years before symptoms secondary to ochronotic arthropathy develop. A retrospective diagnosis based on peroperative black discoloration of spinal structures has been described. A black discoloration of the intervertebral disc should encourage the neurosurgeon to further explore the possibility of alkaptonuria, even in the absence of a clear phenotype. Surgical results are mostly satisfactory. Further studies are required in order to better understand this pathology and its postoperative course.

Citation: Broekx S and Peuskens D. Disc-coloration of an ochronotic cervical intervertebral disc in a patient with alkaptonuria: Case report and review of the literature. Disc-coloration of an ochronotic cervical intervertebral disc in a patient with alkaptonuria: Case report and review of the literature. 2024; 242:108349. doi: 10.1016/j.clineuro.2024.108349

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38820945/
