PMID: 38856962
Title: Transthyretin amyloid cardiomyopathy in patients with unexplained increased left ventricular wall thickness.

Abstract: Amyloid cardiomyopathy (CA) was previously considered a rare disease; however, rapid advancements in imaging modalities have led to an increased frequency of its diagnosis. The aim of this prospective study was to assess the prevalence and clinical phenotype of transthyretin amyloidosis (ATTR) cardiomyopathy in patients exhibiting unexplained increased left ventricular (LV) wall thickness. From 2020 to 2022, we enrolled 100 consecutive adults with unexplained increased LV wall thickness in the study. The analysis included clinical data, electrocardiography, transthoracic echocardiography, single-photon emission computed tomography/computed tomography with 3,3-disphono-1,2-propanodicarboxylic acid, genetic testing. Overall, 18% of patients were diagnosed with CA, comprising 5% with light-chain amyloidosis, and 12% with ATTR. To evaluate associations with the ATTR diagnosis, a LOGIT model and multivariate analysis were applied. Notably, age, polyneuropathy, gastropathy, carpal tunnel syndrome, lumbar spine stenosis, low voltage, ventricular arrhythmia, LV mass, LV ejection fraction, global longitudinal strain (GLS), E/A, E/E', right ventricle (RV) thickness, right atrium area, RV VTI, TAPSE, apical sparing, ground glass appearance of myocardium, thickening of interatrial septum, thickening of valves, and the "5-5-5" sign were found to be significantly associated with ATTR (p < 0.05). The best predictive model for ATTR diagnoses exhibited an area under the curve of 0.99, including LV mass, GLS and RV thickness. This study, conducted at a cardiology referral center, revealed that a very considerable proportion of patients with unexplained increased LV wall thickness may suffer from underlying CA. Moreover, the presence of ATTR should be considered in patients with increased LV mass accompanied by reduced GLS and RV thickening.

Citation: Holcman K, et al. Transthyretin amyloid cardiomyopathy in patients with unexplained increased left ventricular wall thickness. Transthyretin amyloid cardiomyopathy in patients with unexplained increased left ventricular wall thickness. 2024; 40:1693-1703. doi: 10.1007/s10554-024-03158-z

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38856962/
