PMID: 38853723
Title: Stop Ischemic Event to the Brain: Screening Risk Factors of Cerebrovascular Stenosis in Coronary Artery Disease Patients.

Abstract: OBJECTIVES: In this study, we investigated the difference in risk factors between the 2 diseases, aiming to further clarify who needs to do ischemic cerebrovascular disease (ICVD)-related screening among coronary artery disease (CAD) patients.
METHODS: Clinical data of 326 patients with first-episode CAD from June 1, 2017, to July 31, 2020, in the Chinese PLA General Hospital were retrospectively reviewed. Outcomes, including clinical features and laboratory examination, were taken. Features related to ICVD including the extension of intracranial arterial (internal carotid artery intracranial segment, middle cerebral artery M1 segment, anterior cerebral A1 segment, vertebrobasilar artery intracranial segment, posterior cerebral artery P1 segment) and carotid arterial (internal carotid artery extracranial segment, common carotid artery, subclavian artery) stenosis were detected. Risk factors for the occurrence of ICVD in patients with CAD were analyzed.
RESULTS: Among patients with the onset of CAD, in comparison of the nonstenosis and stenosis of intracranial artery subgroups, there were statistical differences in the onset age, hypertension, and duration of hypertension as well as the biochemical indicators, including high-density lipoprotein and glycosylated hemoglobin. In addition, statistical differences were detected in the onset age as well as the biochemical indicators, including glycosylated hemoglobin and blood glucose serum protein, along with the difference in the degree of cardiovascular stenosis.
CONCLUSIONS: The onset age of CAD was shown to serve as a vital risk factor for ICVD. The primary prevention of ICVD in patients with CAD should lay more emphasis on the management of hypertension and diabetes.

Citation: Yang SC, et al. Stop Ischemic Event to the Brain: Screening Risk Factors of Cerebrovascular Stenosis in Coronary Artery Disease Patients. Stop Ischemic Event to the Brain: Screening Risk Factors of Cerebrovascular Stenosis in Coronary Artery Disease Patients. 2024; 29:265-274. doi: 10.1097/NRL.0000000000000568

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38853723/
