PMID: 38857583
Title: Long-Term Monitoring and Clinical Implications of Small Bowel Capsule Endoscopy in Patients with Crohn's Disease with Small Bowel Lesions: A Retrospective Analysis.

Abstract: INTRODUCTION: Crohn's disease (CD) induces persistent inflammation throughout the gastrointestinal (GI) tract, potentially resulting in complications such as intestinal stenosis and fistulas, particularly in the small bowel. Small bowel capsule endoscopy (SBCE) is recommended for monitoring CD, especially when GI tract patency is maintained. This study aimed to retrospectively assess patients with CD who underwent SBCE to determine the timing of clinical changes and address the current lack of evidence regarding GI tract patency loss during CD treatment.
METHODS: Of the 166 consecutive patients who underwent SBCE at our institution, 120 were followed up and included in this study. Forty-six patients were excluded due to colitis type or immediate treatment changes post-SBCE. This study focused on the primary and secondary endpoints, including the cumulative stricture-free rate of the GI tract, emergency hospitalization post-SBCE, and post-SBCE treatment strategies, at the discretion of the attending physicians.
RESULTS: Demographic data revealed that the mean age of the study population was 43 years and that there was a male predominance (75%). The median disease duration was 12 years and the mean Crohn's Disease Activity Index was 98. During a 1,486-day observation period, 37% of patients experienced treatment changes. A Lewis score of &gt;264 and perianal lesions were identified as independent risk factors for additional treatment needs. Emergency hospitalization occurred in 6% of patients and GI patency failure in 11%. Female sex and Lewis score&gt;264 were associated with higher risks. GI patency rate declined 2 years after SBCE.
CONCLUSIONS: For patients who experienced no treatment changes based on SBCE results, it is recommended to undergo SBCE monitoring at intervals of no longer than 2 years.

Citation: Nakamura M, et al. Long-Term Monitoring and Clinical Implications of Small Bowel Capsule Endoscopy in Patients with Crohn's Disease with Small Bowel Lesions: A Retrospective Analysis. Long-Term Monitoring and Clinical Implications of Small Bowel Capsule Endoscopy in Patients with Crohn's Disease with Small Bowel Lesions: A Retrospective Analysis. 2024; 105:380-388. doi: 10.1159/000539745

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38857583/
