PMID: 38855881
Title: An extremely rare complication during carotid artery stenting using a Wallstent: Migration of a stent holder of a Carotid Wallstent.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Carotid artery stenting (CAS) is an established treatment for internal carotid artery stenosis (ICS). The Carotid Wallstent is commonly used as a stent device in CAS procedures. Rare complications associated with the use of the Carotid Wallstent in CAS procedures include delayed shortening and incomplete stent expansion due to displacement of a marker ring. However, there have been no previous reports of a stent holder becoming unpredictably detached from a Carotid Wallstent during a procedure, requiring the additional deployment of another Carotid Wallstent.
CASE PRESENTATION: The case of a 72-year-old man with progressive ICS is described. Since the ICS was resistant to medical treatment, CAS was planned to prevent ischemic events. During the procedure, a Mo.Ma Ultra and a carotid guardwire were used for proximal and distal protection, respectively. Following the introduction of those protective devices, a Carotid Wallstent was deployed at the stenotic lesion of the ICS. After the deployment of the Carotid Wallstent, a stent holder unpredictably detached was identified in the lumen of the Carotid Wallstent. Since it was impossible to mechanically retrieve the detached stent holder, another Carotid Wallstent was deployed to trap the substance. Postoperatively, the substance was identified as a stent holder of the first Carotid Wallstent.
CONCLUSION: This is the first report of an extremely rare complication concerning a Carotid Wallstent in CAS.

Citation: Chihara H, et al. An extremely rare complication during carotid artery stenting using a Wallstent: Migration of a stent holder of a Carotid Wallstent. An extremely rare complication during carotid artery stenting using a Wallstent: Migration of a stent holder of a Carotid Wallstent. 2024; (unknown volume):19714009241260799. doi: 10.1177/19714009241260799

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38855881/
