PMID: 38852555
Title: Atlantoaxial dislocation due to Os odontoideum in down syndrome: Literature review and case reports.

Abstract: INTRODUCTION AND IMPORTANCE: Os odontoideum is a rare condition commonly associated with atlantoaxial instability (AAI) and leading to atlantoaxial dislocation. The incidence of Os odontoideum is higher in patients with Down syndrome. Similar to odontoid fractures, atlantoaxial dislocation in patients with Os odontoideum can result in neurological deficits, disability, and even mortality.
CASE PRESENTATION: We present two cases of Os odontoideum accompanied by Down syndrome. Both patients were hospitalized due to progressive tetraparesis after falls several months prior. Upon examination, the patients exhibited myelopathy and were unable to walk or stand. MRI revealed spinal stenosis at the C1-C2 level due to atlantoaxial dislocation. C1-C2 fixation using Harms' technique was performed in both cases. One case experienced a complication involving instrument failure, necessitating revision surgery.
CLINICAL DISCUSSION: Due to the characteristics of transverse ligament laxity, low muscle tone, excessive joint flexibility, and cognitive impairment, children with both Down syndrome and Os odontoideum are at a high risk of disability and even mortality from spinal cord injury. Most authors recommend surgical management when patients exhibit atlantoaxial instability. Additional factors such as low bone density, cognitive impairment, and a high head-to-body ratio may increase the risk of surgical instrument failure and nonunion postoperatively in patients with Down syndrome.
CONCLUSION: Os odontoideum is a cause of AAI in patients with DS. Indication of surgery in the presence of AAI helps to resolve neurological injury and prevent further deterioration. The use of a cervical collar is considered to prevent instrument failure postoperatively.

Citation: Nguyen LH, et al. Atlantoaxial dislocation due to Os odontoideum in down syndrome: Literature review and case reports. Atlantoaxial dislocation due to Os odontoideum in down syndrome: Literature review and case reports. 2024; 120:109888. doi: 10.1016/j.ijscr.2024.109888

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38852555/
