PMID: 38858126
Title: Cerebral hypoperfusion exacerbates traumatic brain injury in male but not female mice.

Abstract: Mild-moderate traumatic brain injuries (TBIs) are prevalent, and while many individuals recover, there is evidence that a significant number experience long-term health impacts, including increased vulnerability to neurodegenerative diseases. These effects are influenced by other risk factors, such as cardiovascular disease. Our study tested the hypothesis that a pre-injury reduction in cerebral blood flow (CBF), mimicking cardiovascular disease, worsens TBI recovery. We induced bilateral carotid artery stenosis (BCAS) and a mild-moderate closed-head TBI in male and female mice, either alone or in combination, and analyzed CBF, spatial learning, memory, axonal damage, and gene expression. Findings showed that BCAS and TBI independently caused a ~10% decrease in CBF. Mice subjected to both BCAS and TBI experienced more significant CBF reductions, notably affecting spatial learning and memory, particularly in males. Additionally, male mice showed increased axonal damage with both BCAS and TBI compared to either condition alone. Females exhibited spatial memory deficits due to BCAS, but these were not worsened by subsequent TBI. Gene expression analysis in male mice highlighted that TBI and BCAS individually altered neuronal and glial profiles. However, the combination of BCAS and TBI resulted in markedly different transcriptional patterns. Our results suggest that mild cerebrovascular impairments, serving as a stand-in for preexisting cardiovascular conditions, can significantly worsen TBI outcomes in males. This highlights the potential for mild comorbidities to modify TBI outcomes and increase the risk of secondary diseases.

Citation: Whitehead BJ, et al. Cerebral hypoperfusion exacerbates traumatic brain injury in male but not female mice. Cerebral hypoperfusion exacerbates traumatic brain injury in male but not female mice. 2024; 60:4346-4361. doi: 10.1111/ejn.16439

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38858126/
