PMID: 38851710
Title: Percutaneous intervention versus surgery in the treatment of common femoral artery lesions: study protocol for the prospective, multi-center, randomized PESTO-CFA trial.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Endovascular therapy has become established as a first-line therapy in most arterial regions. However, open vascular surgery (endarterectomy) remains the treatment of choice for common femoral artery (CFA) lesions. The aim of this study is to investigate the acute and mid-term results of directional atherectomy plus drug-coated balloon (DCB) in comparison to endarterectomy in treatment of de novo arteriosclerotic CFA lesions.
METHODS: This prospective, randomized, multicenter non-inferiority study will enroll 306 participants with symptomatic (Rutherford category 1 to 5) de novo stenosis of the CFA including the bifurcation. Patients eligible for both treatment groups could be included in this 1:1 randomized trial. Primary efficacy endpoint is patency of the target lesion at 12 months defined as restenosis < 50% without the need of clinically driven target lesion revascularization (cdTLR). Primary safety endpoint is a combined endpoint including death, myocardial infarction, major or minor amputation of the target limb, and peri-procedural complications at 30 days. Secondary endpoints include primary patency of the target lesion at 6 and 24 months, secondary patency, cdTLR 6, 12, and 24 months, change in ankle-brachial index, and Rutherford-Becker class at 6, 12, and 24 months. Limb salvage, change in quality of life measured by Walking Impairment Questionnaire, and major adverse events including death, myocardial infarction, and minor or major amputation of the target limb will be determined at 6, 12, 24, and 36 months.
DISCUSSION: Endovascular treatment of CFA lesions is still a matter of debate. Few studies compared modern endovascular therapy methods against the so-called gold standard surgical endarterectomy so far. Based on recent positive results, this study aims to confirm non-inferiority of a "leaving nothing behind" endovascular approach combining directional atherectomy and DCB compared to surgical therapy.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: ClinicalTrials.gov NCT02517827.

Citation: Rastan A, et al. Percutaneous intervention versus surgery in the treatment of common femoral artery lesions: study protocol for the prospective, multi-center, randomized PESTO-CFA trial. Percutaneous intervention versus surgery in the treatment of common femoral artery lesions: study protocol for the prospective, multi-center, randomized PESTO-CFA trial. 2024; 25:370. doi: 10.1186/s13063-024-08219-1

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38851710/
