PMID: 38853184
Title: Serial change in gastric motility in eosinophilic gastritis with pyloric stenosis assessment by abdominal ultrasonography.

Abstract: Eosinophilic gastritis (EoG) is defined as the presence of upper gastrointestinal symptoms combined with histologic findings of > 30 eosinophils/high-power field (eos/hpf) in 5 hpf in any part of the gastric mucosa, except for the secondary causes of gastric eosinophilia. This is the first case report of a serial change in gastric motility in EoG with pyloric stenosis using abdominal ultrasonography. A 56-year-old woman was diagnosed with pyloric stenosis by upper gastrointestinal radiographic examination during a medical checkup. She had nausea and loss of appetite, her gastrointestinal symptom rating scale (GSRS) score was 20, and her F scale score was 20. Esophagogastroduodenoscopy (EGD) demonstrated pyloric stenosis and multiple superficial ulcerations in the antrum. Histopathological findings of gastric biopsy specimens revealed severe eosinophilic infiltration (100 eos/HPF), and the diagnosis was EoG with pyloric stenosis. Before treatment, the gastric anterior wall thickness was 6.3 mm. The gastric motility in EoG was evaluated by intra-abdominal ultrasonography. Ultrasonography showed low motility in the antrum, especially the amplitude and motility index. After 6 months of steroid treatment, her symptoms improved. Her GSRS score was 13, and her F scale score was 19. Histological eosinophilic infiltration decreased to 50 eos/HPF, showing improvement. On ultrasonography, gastric motility also improved and recovered to normal. After 12 months, several examinations confirmed improvement, including gastric motility by ultrasonography.

Citation: Matsumoto H, et al. Serial change in gastric motility in eosinophilic gastritis with pyloric stenosis assessment by abdominal ultrasonography. Serial change in gastric motility in eosinophilic gastritis with pyloric stenosis assessment by abdominal ultrasonography. 2024; 17:809-813. doi: 10.1007/s12328-024-01998-9

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38853184/
