PMID: 38851518
Title: Nesfatin-1 mitigates calcific aortic valve disease via suppressing ferroptosis mediated by GSH/GPX4 and ZIP8/SOD2 axes.

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: Calcific aortic valve disease (CAVD) predominantly affects the elderly and currently lacks effective medical treatments. Nesfatin-1, a peptide derived from the cleavage of Nucleobindin 2, has been implicated in various calcification processes, both physiological and pathological. This study explores the impact of Nesfatin-1 on the transformation of aortic valve interstitial cells (AVICs) in CAVD.
METHODS AND RESULTS: In vitro experiments showed that Nesfatin-1 treatment mitigated the osteogenic differentiation of AVICs. Corresponding in vivo studies demonstrated a deceleration in the progression of CAVD. RNA-sequencing of AVICs treated with and without Nesfatin-1 highlighted an enrichment of the Ferroptosis pathway among the top pathways identified by the Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes analysis. Further examination confirmed increased ferroptosis in both calcified valves and osteoblast-like AVICs, with a reduction in ferroptosis following Nesfatin-1 treatment. Within the Ferroptosis pathway, ZIP8 showed the most notable modulation by Nesfatin-1. Silencing ZIP8 in AVICs increased ferroptosis and osteogenic differentiation, decreased intracellular Mn2+ concentration, and reduced the expression and activity of superoxide dismutase (SOD2). Furthermore, the silencing of SOD2 exacerbated ferroptosis and osteogenic differentiation. Nesfatin-1 treatment was found to elevate the expression of glutathione peroxidase 4 (GPX4) and levels of glutathione (GSH), as confirmed by Western blotting and GSH concentration assays.
CONCLUSION: In summary, Nesfatin-1 effectively inhibits the osteogenic differentiation of AVICs by attenuating ferroptosis, primarily through the GSH/GPX4 and ZIP8/SOD2 pathways.

Citation: Wang S, et al. Nesfatin-1 mitigates calcific aortic valve disease via suppressing ferroptosis mediated by GSH/GPX4 and ZIP8/SOD2 axes. Nesfatin-1 mitigates calcific aortic valve disease via suppressing ferroptosis mediated by GSH/GPX4 and ZIP8/SOD2 axes. 2024; 222:149-164. doi: 10.1016/j.freeradbiomed.2024.06.004

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38851518/
