PMID: 38855434
Title: Concomitant Septal Myectomy with Aortic Valve Replacement for Severe Aortic Stenosis with Left Ventricular Outflow Tract Obstruction.

Abstract: OBJECTIVES: Septal myectomy confers survival benefits on patients with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy. However, its role in the treatment of severe aortic stenosis (sAS) with left ventricular outflow tract obstruction (LVOTO) remains under investigation. Another challenging question in the era of transcatheter aortic valve replacement is who would benefit more from traditional surgical aortic valve replacement (SAVR) with myectomy. Therefore, this study aimed to investigate myectomy cases at our hospital in Japan.
METHODS: A total of 740 patients who underwent SAVR for sAS between 2012 and 2019 were identified. The demographics and baseline echocardiographic findings were retrospectively compared between patients who underwent concomitant myectomy and those who did not. The myectomy group was further assessed for factors predisposing to LVOTO, operative details, echocardiographic changes, and prognosis. The resected septa were histopathologically analyzed.
RESULTS: The myectomy group mostly comprised elderly females with a small hypercontractile heart. Myectomy with SAVR led to statistically significant improvements in concentric left ventricular hypertrophy and LVOTO parameters. Survival was comparable with that reported in previous reports, even in the elderly subset (≥ 75 years). The septa showed mild fibrosis.
CONCLUSIONS: Myectomy can be safely performed with SAVR for sAS with LVOTO, even in the elderly, and it effectively improves LVOTO. Special attention should be paid to elderly females with relatively more severe AS and a small yet extra-hypertrophic and extra-hypercontractile heart. Such patients warrant comprehensive assessment of LVOTO, and despite its invasiveness, SAVR may be potentially more beneficial by allowing direct observation of LVOTO and ancillary myectomy.

Citation: Umetsu A, et al. Concomitant Septal Myectomy with Aortic Valve Replacement for Severe Aortic Stenosis with Left Ventricular Outflow Tract Obstruction. Concomitant Septal Myectomy with Aortic Valve Replacement for Severe Aortic Stenosis with Left Ventricular Outflow Tract Obstruction. 2023; 69:203-215. doi: 10.14789/jmj.JMJ22-0036-OA

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38855434/
