PMID: 38869087
Title: Long-Term Functional Outcomes in Pediatric Head and Neck Cancer Patients: A Systematic Review.

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: The multimodal treatments for pediatric head and neck (H&N) malignancies can have significant long-term functional consequences for growing patients. This systematic review aims to analyze the current knowledge of functional outcomes for pediatric H&N cancer survivors.
DATA SOURCES: PubMed, Embase, Web of Science.
REVIEW METHODS: Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic Reviews and Meta-analyses guidelines were followed, and 1356 papers were reviewed by 3 team members with conflict resolution by a senior member.
RESULTS: Fourteen studies were included. Nine of 14 (64%) papers reported issues with swallowing, characterized as either dysphagia, odynophagia, oropharyngeal fibrosis, esophageal stenosis, xerostomia, trismus, or general issues with the throat and mouth. Six of 14 papers noted nutritional and feeding deficiencies, and 5 of 14 additionally noted issues with speech and voice changes. Four of 14 (29%) reported hearing impairments and/or loss. A majority of papers (9/14) reported long-term functional characteristics as a secondary outcome. Three of 14 (21%) reported a quality of life (QoL) measure. Heterogeneity in methodology and reporting precluded analysis of any relationship between treatment type and functional outcomes. Recommendations include integration of objective measures of feeding support and swallowing, as well as regular measurements of function and QoL parameters during treatment to better understand the evolution of QoL and function throughout care.
CONCLUSION: Relatively few studies focus on functional outcomes following the treatment of pediatric H&N cancer. Swallowing difficulty is the most frequently reported deficit, but objective data is rarely reported. Standardization of functional outcome assessment could improve the quality of evidence for pediatric patients treated for H&N cancer.

Citation: Arya P, et al. Long-Term Functional Outcomes in Pediatric Head and Neck Cancer Patients: A Systematic Review. Long-Term Functional Outcomes in Pediatric Head and Neck Cancer Patients: A Systematic Review. 2024; 171:1297-1307. doi: 10.1002/ohn.853

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38869087/
