PMID: 38866577
Title: Incidence, management and outcomes in hepatic artery complications after paediatric liver transplantation: protocol of the retrospective, international, multicentre HEPATIC Registry.

Abstract: INTRODUCTION: Hepatic artery complications (HACs), such as a thrombosis or stenosis, are serious causes of morbidity and mortality after paediatric liver transplantation (LT). This study will investigate the incidence, current management practices and outcomes in paediatric patients with HAC after LT, including early and late complications.
METHODS AND ANALYSIS: The HEPatic Artery stenosis and Thrombosis after liver transplantation In Children (HEPATIC) Registry is an international, retrospective, multicentre, observational study. Any paediatric patient diagnosed with HAC and treated for HAC (at age <18 years) after paediatric LT within a 20-year time period will be included. The primary outcomes are graft and patient survivals. The secondary outcomes are technical success of the intervention, primary and secondary patency after HAC intervention, intraprocedural and postprocedural complications, description of current management practices, and incidence of HAC.
ETHICS AND DISSEMINATION: All participating sites will obtain local ethical approval and (waiver of) informed consent following the regulations on the conduct of observational clinical studies. The results will be disseminated through scientific presentations at conferences and through publication in peer-reviewed journals.
TRIAL REGISTRATION NUMBER: The HEPATIC registry is registered at the ClinicalTrials.gov website; Registry Identifier: NCT05818644.

Citation: Li W, et al. Incidence, management and outcomes in hepatic artery complications after paediatric liver transplantation: protocol of the retrospective, international, multicentre HEPATIC Registry. Incidence, management and outcomes in hepatic artery complications after paediatric liver transplantation: protocol of the retrospective, international, multicentre HEPATIC Registry. 2024; 14:e081933. doi: 10.1136/bmjopen-2023-081933

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38866577/
