PMID: 38869688
Title: Noradrenaline infusion prevents anesthesia-induced hypotension in severe aortic stenosis patients undergoing transcatheter aortic valve replacement: a retrospective observational study.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Patients with severe aortic valve stenosis (AS) are particularly prone to developing hypotension during general anesthesia induction, which increases postoperative morbidity and mortality. Although the preventive effect of a single vasopressor dose on anesthesia-induced hypotension has been reported, the effects of continuous vasopressor infusion are unknown. This study aimed to assess the effect of noradrenaline (NAd) infusion on hemodynamic stability during general anesthesia induction in severe AS patients undergoing transcatheter aortic valve replacement (TAVR).
METHODS: This single-center, retrospective study included severe AS patients who underwent elective TAVR. Patients in the NAd group received a continuous prophylactic NAd infusion of 0.1 μg/kg/min from the time of anesthesia induction. The control group received inotropes and vasopressors as indicated by the occurrence of hypotension. The primary outcome was the lowest mean blood pressure (MBP) before the start of surgery.
RESULTS: The study included 68 patients in the NAd group and 113 in the control group. The lowest MBP before the start of surgery was significantly higher in the NAd group than in the control group (63 ± 15 vs 47 ± 13 mmHg, P < 0.01). MBP immediately before intubation was also significantly higher in the NAd group (75 ± 17 vs 57 ± 16 mmHg, P < 0.01). Differences in postoperative complications between the groups were negligible.
CONCLUSION: Continuous administration of NAd at 0.1 μg/kg/min in patients with severe AS might prevent hypotension during general anesthesia induction for TAVR.

Citation: Onishi K, et al. Noradrenaline infusion prevents anesthesia-induced hypotension in severe aortic stenosis patients undergoing transcatheter aortic valve replacement: a retrospective observational study. Noradrenaline infusion prevents anesthesia-induced hypotension in severe aortic stenosis patients undergoing transcatheter aortic valve replacement: a retrospective observational study. 2024; 10:39. doi: 10.1186/s40981-024-00721-4

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38869688/
