PMID: 38871074
Title: Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug-induced small bowel strictures (diaphragm disease) - an under-recognized cause of small bowel obstruction.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Small bowel obstruction is a major source of morbidity and mortality that carries a significant economic burden. Recurrent small bowel obstruction may be secondary to circumferential strictures (small bowel diaphragm disease), an under-recognized entity secondary to long-term nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) use. We aimed to describe the sensitivity of preoperative computed tomography (CT) enterography in patients with surgically treated small bowel diaphragm disease.
METHODS: We retrospectively reviewed adult patients who underwent elective small bowel resection for small bowel obstruction performed by a single minimally invasive surgeon between 2010 and 2023. Patient history, radiographic, endoscopic, operative, and pathology reports were reviewed for reference to NSAID use, small bowel strictures, diaphragms, and enteropathy. Exclusion criteria were prior radiation, inflammatory bowel disease, malignancy, adhesive disease, and anastomotic strictures.
RESULTS: A total of 225 patients were identified, 22 (10%) of whom met the inclusion criteria. The mean age was 60.7 years (range 29-78), with 15 women (68%). All patients underwent minimally invasive small bowel resection for obstruction with histopathologic evidence of stricture without evidence of transmural inflammation, granuloma, or dysplasia and confirmed NSAID use (n = 22, 100%). Anemia was present in 36% (n = 8). Preoperative CT or magnetic resonance (MR) enterography was performed in 18 patients (82%), of which stricturing was reported in 13 (72%). Intraoperatively, palpation identified strictures in all patients.
CONCLUSION: NSAID-induced small bowel injury is an under-recognized condition that, in severe cases, can present as small bowel obstruction. Surgeons should consider diaphragm disease in patients with obstruction and NSAID use, in which preoperative CT or MR enterography may be useful but cannot rule out disease.

Citation: Sample JW, et al. Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug-induced small bowel strictures (diaphragm disease) - an under-recognized cause of small bowel obstruction. Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug-induced small bowel strictures (diaphragm disease) - an under-recognized cause of small bowel obstruction. 2024; 28:1430-1435. doi: 10.1016/j.gassur.2024.06.004

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38871074/
