PMID: 38877777
Title: Intravascular Lithotripsy for Treatment of Severely Calcified Common Femoral Artery Disease: Results From the Disrupt PAD III Observational Study.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Surgical endarterectomy is currently considered the front-line therapy for the treatment of calcified lesions in the common femoral artery (CFA). Endovascular interventions have evolved, and their use is increasing in frequency. Intravascular lithotripsy (IVL) has shown promising safety and effectiveness in calcified CFA lesions in a small pilot study, but "real-world" evidence from a larger cohort is lacking.
METHODS: The Disrupt PAD III Observational Study (NCT02923193) was a prospective, multicenter registry designed to assess the acute safety and effectiveness of IVL treatment for calcified peripheral arterial disease. Any concomitant treatment with other calcium-modifying technologies as well as definitive treatment strategies was at the discretion of the operators. Patients with CFA lesions were evaluated for acute angiographic safety and effectiveness outcomes following IVL treatment as determined by an independent angiographic core lab.
RESULTS: Common femoral artery treatment was indicated in 177 patients (n=163 could be analyzed based on core-laboratory data) enrolled at 23 sites. Characteristics for 164 treated lesions included moderate-severe calcification 95.1%, diameter stenosis 74.8±17.7%, and lesion length 53.6±53.1 mm. Concomitant calcium-modifying therapy was used in 32.3% of lesions. Final therapy included drug-coated balloons in 68.9% and stenting in 16.5% of lesions. Post-IVL and final residual stenoses were 29.2±16.5%and 23.6±11.5%, respectively. No vascular complications (flow-limiting dissections, perforations, embolization, slow or no reflow, or abrupt closure) were present at the end of the procedure by core-laboratory assessment, with 1 (0.8%) flow-limiting dissection initially occurring immediately following IVL treatment.
CONCLUSION: This study represents the largest real-world experience of IVL treatment in heavily calcified CFA lesions. Intravascular lithotripsy treatment showed significant stenosis reduction and favorable periprocedural safety in this challenging patient population.
CLINICAL IMPACT: In this study we show that calcified common femoral artery disease can be safely and effectively treated with shockwave balloon angioplasty with high procedural success and low complication rates and in clinical practice can now be offered as an alternative to surgical treatment in those patients reluctant to or high risk for vascular surgery. This opens another option for clinicians to treat calcified common femoral artery disease without the risk of dissection, perforation or distal embolization that are associated with atherectomy. This study shows that shockwave lithoplasty offers an innovative plaque modification technology to tackle calcified disease in the common femoral artery.

Citation: Shammas NW, et al. Intravascular Lithotripsy for Treatment of Severely Calcified Common Femoral Artery Disease: Results From the Disrupt PAD III Observational Study. Intravascular Lithotripsy for Treatment of Severely Calcified Common Femoral Artery Disease: Results From the Disrupt PAD III Observational Study. 2024; (unknown volume):15266028241255622. doi: 10.1177/15266028241255622

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38877777/
