PMID: 38876778
Title: Optimal medical therapy is lacking in patients undergoing intervention for symptomatic carotid artery stenosis and protects against larger areas of cerebral infarction.

Abstract: OBJECTIVES: Carotid interventions are indicated for both patients with symptomatic and a subset of patients with severe asymptomatic carotid artery stenosis (CAS). Symptomatic CAS accounts for up to 12%-25% of overall carotid interventions, but predictors of symptomatic presentation remain poorly defined. The aim of this study was to identify factors associated with symptomatic CAS in our patient population.
METHODS: Between January 2015 and February 2022, an institutional retrospective cohort study of prospectively collected data on patients undergoing interventions for CAS was performed. Procedures included carotid endarterectomy (CEA), transcarotid artery revascularization (TCAR), and transfemoral carotid artery stenting (TF-CAS). Demographic data, comorbidities, procedural details, and anatomic features from various imaging modalities were collected. Comparisons were made between symptomatic (symptoms within the prior 6 months) and asymptomatic patients.
RESULTS: During the study period, 279 patients who underwent intervention for symptomatic CAS were paired with a randomly selected cohort of 300 patients who underwent intervention for asymptomatic CAS from a total patient cohort of 1143 patients undergoing interventions for asymptomatic CAS. Demographic data did not differ between groups. Patients with symptomatic CAS more frequently had prior TIA/stroke (&gt;6 months remote to the current event), but less frequently had coronary artery disease or chronic kidney disease and were less likely to receive adequate medical management including antihypertensive agents, lipid-lowering agents, and anti-platelet therapy. On multivariate analysis, remote prior TIA/stroke and lack of anti-platelet therapy remained significant. Among symptomatic patients presenting with stroke, lack of anti-platelet therapy was associated with an overall larger area of parenchymal involvement. No difference was observed with single versus dual anti-platelet therapy. Furthermore, symptomatic patients were more likely to have ulcerated plaques (30.9% vs 18%, p &lt; .001), and symptomatic patients with ulcerated plaques more frequently had less than 50% compared to moderate/severe CAS. Nine patients who presented with symptoms had mild CAS and underwent intervention.
CONCLUSIONS: Symptomatic CAS was associated with a history of remote prior symptoms and lack of anti-platelet therapy at time of presentation. Furthermore, symptomatic patients not on anti-platelet agents were more likely to have a greater area of parenchymal involvement when presenting with stroke and symptomatic patients with ulcerated plaques were more likely to have mild CAS, suggesting the role of plaque instability in symptomatic presentation. These findings underscore the importance of appropriate medical management and adherence in all patients with CAS and perhaps a role for more frequent surveillance in those with potentially unstable plaque morphology.

Citation: Teter K, et al. Optimal medical therapy is lacking in patients undergoing intervention for symptomatic carotid artery stenosis and protects against larger areas of cerebral infarction. Optimal medical therapy is lacking in patients undergoing intervention for symptomatic carotid artery stenosis and protects against larger areas of cerebral infarction. 2024; (unknown volume):17085381241262927. doi: 10.1177/17085381241262927

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38876778/
