PMID: 38874672
Title: Predominant determinants for evaluation of right parasternal approach in transthoracic echocardiography in aortic stenosis: a study based on three-dimensional cardiac computed tomography analysis.

Abstract: The maximum blood flow velocity through the aortic valve (AVmax) using Doppler transthoracic echocardiography (TTE) is important in assessing the severity of aortic stenosis (AS). The right parasternal (RP) approach has been reported to be more useful than the apical approach, but the anatomical rationale has not been studied. We aimed to clarify the influence of the angle formed by the ascending aorta and left ventricle on Doppler analysis by TTE (Sep-Ao angle) and three-dimensional multidetector computed tomography (3D-MDCT) in patients with AS. A total of 151 patients evaluated using the RP approach and 3D-MDCT were included in this study. The Sep-Ao angle determined using TTE was compared with that determined using 3D-MDCT analysis. In MDCT analysis, the left ventricular (LV) axis was measured in two ways and the calcification score was calculated simultaneously. The Sep-Ao angle on TTE was consistent with that measured using 3D-MDCT. In patients with an acute Sep-Ao angle, the Doppler angle in the apical approach was larger, potentially underestimating AVmax. Multivariate analysis revealed that an acute Sep-Ao angle, large Doppler angle in the apical approach, smaller Doppler angle in the RP approach, and low aortic valve calcification were independently associated with a higher AVmax in the RP approach than in the apical approach. The Sep-Ao angle measured using TTE reflected the 3D anatomical angle. In addition to measurements using the RP approach, technical adjustments to minimize the Doppler angle to avoid bulky calcification should always be noted for accurate assessment.

Citation: Yokokawa D, et al. Predominant determinants for evaluation of right parasternal approach in transthoracic echocardiography in aortic stenosis: a study based on three-dimensional cardiac computed tomography analysis. Predominant determinants for evaluation of right parasternal approach in transthoracic echocardiography in aortic stenosis: a study based on three-dimensional cardiac computed tomography analysis. 2024; 40:1713-1724. doi: 10.1007/s10554-024-03160-5

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38874672/
