PMID: 38872026
Title: A novel rat model of cerebral small vessel disease based on vascular risk factors of hypertension, aging, and cerebral hypoperfusion.

Abstract: Cerebral small vessel disease (CSVD) is a major cause of vascular cognitive impairment and functional loss in elderly patients. Progressive remodeling of cerebral microvessels due to arterial hypertension or other vascular risk factors, such as aging, can cause dementia or stroke. Typical imaging characteristics of CSVD include cerebral microbleeds (CMB), brain atrophy, small subcortical infarctions, white matter hyperintensities (WMH), and enlarged perivascular spaces (EPVS). Nevertheless, no animal models that reflect all the different aspects of CSVD have been identified. Here, we generated a new CSVD animal model using D-galactose (D-gal) combined with cerebral hypoperfusion in spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR), which showed all the hallmark pathological features of CSVD and was based on vascular risk factors. SHR were hypodermically injected with D-gal (400 mg/kg/d) and underwent modified microcoil bilateral common carotid artery stenosis surgery. Subsequently, neurological assessments and behavioral tests were performed, followed by vascular ultrasonography, electron microscopy, flow cytometry, and histological analyses. Our rat model showed multiple cerebrovascular pathologies, such as CMB, brain atrophy, subcortical small infarction, WMH, and EPVS, as well as the underlying causes of CSVD pathology, including oxidative stress injury, decreased cerebral blood flow, structural and functional damage to endothelial cells, increased blood-brain barrier permeability, and inflammation. The use of this animal model will help identify new therapeutic targets and subsequently aid the development and testing of novel therapeutic interventions. Main process of the study: Firstly, we screened for optimal conditions for mimicking aging by injecting D-gal into rats for 4 and 8 weeks. Subsequently, we performed modified microcoil BCAS intervention for 4 and 8 weeks in rats to screen for optimal hypoperfusion conditions. Finally, based on these results, we combined D-gal for 8 weeks and modified microcoil BCAS for 4 weeks to explore the changes in SHR.

Citation: Meng P, et al. A novel rat model of cerebral small vessel disease based on vascular risk factors of hypertension, aging, and cerebral hypoperfusion. A novel rat model of cerebral small vessel disease based on vascular risk factors of hypertension, aging, and cerebral hypoperfusion. 2024; 47:2195-2210. doi: 10.1038/s41440-024-01741-4

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38872026/
