PMID: 38884075
Title: Closure Device Migration: An Unusual Cause of Acute Limb Ischaemia Following a Simple Endovascular Procedure.

Abstract: INTRODUCTION: Acute limb ischaemia resulting from foreign body embolisation is an infrequent yet critical complication associated with vascular closure devices (VCDs). Despite the widespread use of VCDs, rare complications such as fragment emboli pose unique challenges, necessitating heightened clinical awareness. This case report presents a case of acute limb ischaemia caused by a VCD malfunction following an endovascular procedure.
REPORT: A 70 year old male who was diagnosed with a severe claudication of the lower extremity (Rutherford III) due to right common iliac stenosis, underwent angioplasty using a FemoSeal (Terumo Ltd., Surrey, UK) to close the right femoral artery access. Two weeks later, the patient presented with acute lower limb ischaemia due to a right popliteal-tibial occlusion. Emergency surgical thrombo-embolectomy was successfully performed from a medial popliteal approach, and the thrombus, which contained a polymer disc from the VCD at its distal end, was completely removed.
DISCUSSION: Despite VCDs being proven safe and efficient, rare complications such as fragment emboli can occur, and physicians should be aware of the possible delayed onset of symptoms. Moreover, the radiolucent nature of the polymer disc in a FemoSeal complicates diagnostic imaging. While endovascular approaches exist, open surgery is a safe and effective strategy for retrieving fragments and treating the patient in acute limb ischaemia cases.
CONCLUSION: Physicians should remain vigilant for embolic risks associated with vascular closure devices, even with suitable anatomy and following guidelines, especially considering the trend toward early ambulation and discharge.

Citation: Oliny A, et al. Closure Device Migration: An Unusual Cause of Acute Limb Ischaemia Following a Simple Endovascular Procedure. Closure Device Migration: An Unusual Cause of Acute Limb Ischaemia Following a Simple Endovascular Procedure. 2024; 61:113-115. doi: 10.1016/j.ejvsvf.2024.05.006

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38884075/
