PMID: 38884071
Title: Salvage Aneurysmorrhaphy as an Adaptable and Still Pertinent Technique in the Management of Challenging True Aneurysms of Arteriovenous Fistulas: A Case Series of Different Variations, With Illustrative Surgical Pictures.

Abstract: INTRODUCTION: Aneurysmorrhaphy, described as reduction aneurysmoplasty, partial aneurysmectomy, or vessel wall recalibration, can be considered a suitable surgical plan for true aneurysms of arteriovenous fistulas (AVFs), allowing for a dynamic approach to reconstruction of aneurysmal AVFs of different severities, ensuring salvage of the native access.
REPORT: Six challenging cases of AVF aneurysms are presented, some with extremely dilated and tortuous megafistulas, for which three surgical technique variations were performed. The patients had a mean age of 59.2 years, 50% were female, with brachiocephalic (n = 5, 83.3%) or brachiobasilic (n = 1, 16.7%) AVFs. The fistulas were created an average of 4.67 years previously, and the aneurysms had an average maximum diameter of 37.5 mm (range 25-60 mm). Surgical indications were rupture risk, thrombosis, or outflow stenosis compromising haemodialysis, infections, and concerns for quality of life (affected by post-puncture bleedings, disfiguring aesthetics, pain, and discomfort). The surgical techniques were simple aneurysmorrhaphy (n = 3, 50%), aneurysmorrhaphy with partial excision of aneurysmal segment with end to end anastomosis of venous ends (n = 2, 33.3%), and aneurysmorrhaphy with establishment of new venous outflow (n = 1, 16.7%). All AVFs were patent post-operatively and at follow up (mean 5.6 months, median one month). Haemodialysis was resumed through the AVFs at a mean of 2.17 weeks post-operatively, with placement of an alternative route for haemodialysis in the meantime. No patients experienced post-operative complications.
DISCUSSION: Experience with the more challenging cases shows that aneurysmorrhaphy can still be considered an acceptable, flexible, and pertinent method for salvage of megafistulas, giving the surgeon the much needed versatility to adapt to anatomical and pathological variations, with high patency rates and minimal complications, especially when other treatment options are not possible in complicated cases. AVF salvage through aneurysmorrhaphy allows for a dynamic approach to the reconstruction of severely tortuous, dilated veins, ensuring patency of the native AVF.

Citation: Pourriyahi H, et al. Salvage Aneurysmorrhaphy as an Adaptable and Still Pertinent Technique in the Management of Challenging True Aneurysms of Arteriovenous Fistulas: A Case Series of Different Variations, With Illustrative Surgical Pictures. Salvage Aneurysmorrhaphy as an Adaptable and Still Pertinent Technique in the Management of Challenging True Aneurysms of Arteriovenous Fistulas: A Case Series of Different Variations, With Illustrative Surgical Pictures. 2024; 61:126-131. doi: 10.1016/j.ejvsvf.2024.05.002

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38884071/
