PMID: 38883627
Title: Prevalence of carotid artery stenosis and intra-cranial lesions in patients with aortic arch aneurysm and its association with intraoperative regional cerebral oxygen saturation and postoperative neurological outcomes.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Although aortic aneurysm is associated with vascular aging and atherosclerosis, carotid and intracranial vascular disease prevalence in patients with aortic arch aneurysm remains unclear. Similarly, the effect of carotid and intracranial lesions on postoperative outcomes is unknown. This study aimed to investigate the prevalence of carotid artery stenosis and intracranial lesions in patients with aortic arch aneurysm and its association with intraoperative regional cerebral oxygen saturation (rScO2) and postoperative neurological outcomes, including delirium and cerebral infarction.
METHODS: This retrospective observational study included 133 patients with true aortic arch aneurysm who underwent preoperative magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). We evaluated the prevalence of carotid and intracranial arterial lesions. Symptomatic cerebral infarction and delirium, defined by the confusion assessment method for the intensive care unit, were evaluated for their association with preoperative cerebrovascular lesions. Additionally, changes in regional saturation of the cerebral tissue at different surgical phases were evaluated for patients with and without cerebrovascular lesions.
RESULTS: Fifteen (11.3%) patients experienced symptomatic cerebral infarction, and 64 (48.1%) had postoperative delirium. Preoperative MRI showed old infarction, microbleeds, significant carotid artery stenosis, and intracranial lesions in 21.1%, 14.3%, 10.5%, and 7.5% of the patients, respectively. White matter hyperintensities with Fazekas scale 2 were observed in 40.6% of the patients, while Fazekas scale 3 were observed in 18.8% of the patients. Preoperative MRI findings and postoperative neurological outcomes were not significantly different. Seventy-six patients underwent rScO2 monitoring intraoperatively. Changes in rScO2 in patients with and without carotid/cerebrovascular lesions were not significantly different. However, rScO2 was significantly lower in patients who developed cerebral infarction.
CONCLUSIONS: Significant carotid artery stenosis and intracranial lesions were observed in 10.5% and 7.5% of the patients, respectively. Although preoperative MRI findings and changes in rScO2 or postoperative outcomes showed no significant association, patients with postoperative cerebral infarction showed significantly lower rScO2 intraoperatively.

Citation: Hori D, et al. Prevalence of carotid artery stenosis and intra-cranial lesions in patients with aortic arch aneurysm and its association with intraoperative regional cerebral oxygen saturation and postoperative neurological outcomes. Prevalence of carotid artery stenosis and intra-cranial lesions in patients with aortic arch aneurysm and its association with intraoperative regional cerebral oxygen saturation and postoperative neurological outcomes. 2024; 16:2713-2722. doi: 10.21037/jtd-24-78

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38883627/
