PMID: 38880363
Title: Exploring the link between Alport syndrome and multiple intracranial artery stenoses: A case report of COL4A5 mutation.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Alport syndrome is a genetic disorder caused by mutations in the COL4A5 gene, which encodes type IV collagen α5 chain, leading to chronic nephritis, hearing loss, and ocular abnormalities. Recent reports suggest this genetic mutation may also increase the risk of cerebral aneurysms and fibromuscular dysplasia, indicating a potential association with vascular vulnerability.
CASE PRESENTATION: A 66-year-old woman was admitted with recurrent transient weakness of the left hand, which had gradually worsened in duration over three months. Her medical history included chronic nephritis since childhood. Her two sons had end-stage renal disease and hearing loss since their 20s, and her mother also had chronic kidney disease and hearing loss. One son had a history of traumatic subarachnoid hemorrhage, and the other had spinal epidural hematoma. On admission, she had reduced renal function with proteinuria, acute cerebral infarction in the subcortical white matter of the right fronto-parietal and parieto-occipital lobes, and multiple intracranial arterial stenoses (ICAS), including the right middle and right posterior cerebral artery. Vessel wall imaging of the right middle cerebral artery showed a concentric stenotic pattern. Genetic tests identified a pathogenic missense mutation in exon 24 of COL4A5 (exon 24:c.G1700 >C: p.(Gly567Arg)) that was heterozygous for the patient and hemizygous for her son. She was diagnosed with Alport syndrome.
CONCLUSION: It is important to consider Alport syndrome as a possible cause of ICAS in patients with a family history of renal failure or hearing loss and to conduct a genetic analysis of type IV collagen genes.

Citation: Egashira S, et al. Exploring the link between Alport syndrome and multiple intracranial artery stenoses: A case report of COL4A5 mutation. Exploring the link between Alport syndrome and multiple intracranial artery stenoses: A case report of COL4A5 mutation. 2024; 33:107816. doi: 10.1016/j.jstrokecerebrovasdis.2024.107816

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38880363/
