PMID: 38885545
Title: Slide tracheoplasty for congenital tracheal stenosis: A systematic review.

Abstract: INTRODUCTION: Slide tracheoplasty has become the gold standard surgery for congenital tracheal stenosis (CTS). This condition is rare and the surgery can be challenging and is performed by experienced surgeons in tertiary centers. A few reports involving relatively small cohorts have been published. The aim of this review is to evaluate the post-operative mortality and morbidity of pediatric slide tracheoplasty for CTS.
METHODS: A systematic literature review was performed according to PRISMA guidelines. The Medline and EMBASE databases were screened using a search strategy defined in collaboration with a librarian. We included articles reporting the post-operative mortality rate of slide tracheoplasties for treatment of CTS in children, when at least 10 patients were included.
RESULTS: A total of 932 articles were reviewed, and 15 studies were eligible with a total of 845 patients. The overall post-operative mortality rate was 9.3 %, and most deaths were airway related. The open revision surgery rate after surgery was 2.8 % and the endoscopic revision rate was 27.6 %.
DISCUSSION: This study highlights key factors to consider before the surgery and helps anticipate post-operative follow-up considerations for children with CTS. Several factors were identified as predictors of mortality including young age, weight at the time of surgery and association with lung hypoplasia or aplasia.
CONCLUSION: Although slide tracheoplasty has gained popularity in recent years due to better outcomes, it remains a major surgery with mortality risk and the need for multidisciplinary management.

Citation: Maltezeanu A, et al. Slide tracheoplasty for congenital tracheal stenosis: A systematic review. Slide tracheoplasty for congenital tracheal stenosis: A systematic review. 2024; 182:111993. doi: 10.1016/j.ijporl.2024.111993

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38885545/
