PMID: 38881714
Title: Inflammatory status predicts prognosis in patients with gastric cancer with early pyloric stenosis who underwent radical resection: A propensity score‑matching analysis.

Abstract: The inflammatory status of patients is closely related to their nutritional status, and the impact of inflammatory status on patients with pyloric stenosis remains unclear. The present study aimed to investigate the impact of inflammatory status on the prognosis of patients with gastric cancer with early pyloric stenosis who underwent radical resection. A retrospective analysis included 242 patients with gastric cancer who underwent radical resection at the Affiliated Hospital of Southwest Medical University between July 2016 and December 2020. All patients were diagnosed with early pyloric stenosis. Correlation analysis was used to assess variations among different factors, and survival analysis was conducted to evaluate differences in overall survival (OS). To identify independent prognostic indicators, both univariate and multivariate Cox regression analyses were performed, addressing potential multicollinearity using Lasso analysis. Propensity score matching (PSM) was employed to eliminate potential confounding factors. Additionally, a prognostic risk model and nomogram based on inflammatory indicators were developed to comprehensively explore their impact on prognosis. Initial survival analysis revealed significant associations between neutrophil-to-lymphocyte ratio (NLR; χ2=10.522, P<0.001), systemic immune-inflammation index (SII; χ2=6.733, P=0.025), systemic inflammation response index (SIRI; χ2=15.490, P<0.001) and OS of the patients, while there was no significant survival difference among patients with different platelet-to-lymphocyte ratio (PLR; χ2=2.561, P=0.050). SIRI not only had the highest area under the curve but was also found to be an independent prognostic indicator (hazard ratio=1.851, P=0.046) in the present study. Following PSM on SIRI, a total of 174 patients were included in the subsequent analysis. Time-receiver operating characteristic and survival curves for SIRI after PSM consistently demonstrated its robust prognostic predictive capability. Furthermore, the prognostic risk model based on SIRI and the nomogram incorporating SIRI both exhibited high prognostic value. Inflammatory status was significantly associated with the prognosis of patients with gastric cancer with early pyloric stenosis who underwent radical resection. The NLR, SII and SIRI could all predict patient outcomes. Moreover, SIRI exhibited the highest prognostic value among the inflammatory indices and has been identified as an independent prognostic factor in the present study.

Citation: He L, et al. Inflammatory status predicts prognosis in patients with gastric cancer with early pyloric stenosis who underwent radical resection: A propensity score‑matching analysis. Inflammatory status predicts prognosis in patients with gastric cancer with early pyloric stenosis who underwent radical resection: A propensity score‑matching analysis. 2024; 28:355. doi: 10.3892/ol.2024.14488

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38881714/
