PMID: 38887729
Title: A novel method of bilateral biliary decompression by EUS-guided hepaticogastrostomy with bridging stenting using the partial stent-in-stent method for reintervention of multiple metal stent failure.

Abstract: Video 1A novel method of bilateral biliary decompression by EUS-guided hepaticogastrostomy with bridging stenting using the partial stent-in-stent method for reintervention of multiple metal stent failure.We report a case in which anterior and posterior drainage was performed using the partial stent-in-stent method via the transpapillary approach. The patient had a bismuth type IV biliary obstruction, but only the right hepatic lobe was drained due to obstruction of the left portal vein. For the recurrent stent dysfunction, the patient underwent placement of a plastic stent within an uncovered self-expanding metal stent to correct stent dysfunction. A 7F plastic stent inside a metal stent is shown.The patient later experienced stent failure and jaundice due to tumor progression and was admitted for plastic stent replacement. Neither imaging results nor symptoms suggested duodenal stenosis. The transpapillary approach was attempted first but was unsuccessful. Duodenoscopy was challenging to perform because of duodenal stenosis. Fluoroscopy confirmed the duodenal stenosis. The plastic stent was extracted using an upper endoscope. Multiple uncovered metal stents are shown (1 stent in the anterior bile duct and 2 stents in the posterior bile duct). Jaundice did not resolve despite plastic stent removal.The patient refused to undergo percutaneous biliary drainage, so a decision was made to perform an EUS-guided hepaticogastrostomy (HGS) instead. The left bile duct was observed in the stomach. The left bile duct was punctured with a 19-gauge FNA needle. A 0.025-inch hydrophilic guidewire was directed into the left bile duct. Enhancement of the bile duct showing malignant hilar biliary obstruction (bismuth IV) is seen. Insertion of the guide wire into the posterior bile duct is shown.The stent mesh was then dilated using a balloon dilator. However, there was difficulty inserting the catheter. Additional dilation was performed using a spiral dilator. This instrument is a tapered tip dilator that fits into 0.025-inch guidewires and is expandable to 7F. Insertion of a second guidewire with a larger caliber was done to straighten the bile duct and help stabilize stent insertion. A 0.035-inch hydrophilic guidewire into the posterior bile duct using a double-lumen cannula and insertion of a 0.025-inch hydrophilic guidewire into the anterior bile duct are shown.The stent mesh was then dilated using a spiral dilator. A metal stent was placed through the anterior bile duct at a steep angle. Insertion and deployment of the first uncovered self-expanding metal stent (8 × 60 mm) from the anterior bile duct into the left bile duct is shown. Multiple metal stents were implanted into the hilar area, and the new stent was placed using the partial stent-in-stent method to prevent overexpansion. Guidewire seeking the posterior bile duct from inside the deployed stent through the stent mesh is shown.The stent mesh was then dilated using a balloon dilator. Insertion and deployment of an uncovered self-expanding metal stent (8 × 60 mm) from the posterior bile duct to the left bile duct using the partial stent-in-stent method is shown. Enhancement of the bile duct shows drainage from the right bile duct. The fistula of the HGS was only dilated with the spiral dilator. The risk of bile leakage was low, so we decided to implant a plastic stent. A 7F × 15-cm plastic stent was placed from the posterior bile duct into the stomach. Anterior and posterior segment drainage by EUS-HGS with bridging stenting using the partial stent-in-stent method is shown, with left segment drainage by EUS-HGS with the plastic stent.We performed EUS-HGS on a patient with multiple metal stents in place. There were no adverse events, and total bilirubin levels were reduced by more than half within 2 weeks. Six months have passed without stent dysfunction.

Citation: Hara H, et al. A novel method of bilateral biliary decompression by EUS-guided hepaticogastrostomy with bridging stenting using the partial stent-in-stent method for reintervention of multiple metal stent failure. A novel method of bilateral biliary decompression by EUS-guided hepaticogastrostomy with bridging stenting using the partial stent-in-stent method for reintervention of multiple metal stent failure. 2024; 9:286-289. doi: 10.1016/j.vgie.2024.02.015

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38887729/
