PMID: 38888577
Title: Treatment of common femoral artery steno-occlusive disease: a comprehensive review of anatomical and hemodynamic considerations.

Abstract: Open surgical repair, often in the form of endarterectomy, is still the gold standard for steno-occlusive disease in the common femoral artery, despite the success of lower-risk endovascular alternatives in other peripheral arterial regions. Stenting in the common femoral artery is not widely adopted due to the proximity of the artery to the mobile hip joint, and the perceived risk this has on the stent structure due to kinking. The purpose of this review was to assess how hip movement contributes to the anatomical and biomechanical challenges proposed in the common femoral artery, and how these challenges impact the hemodynamics with both open surgical and endovascular stent treatments. The findings demonstrated that the common femoral artery is a fixed arterial segment which does not bend or twist as previously perceived. However, high degrees of bending and twisting are evident in the vessels directly proximal and distal to the common femoral artery. Mechanical testing suggests that the latest generation braided Nitinol stents could be well-suited to these challenges. Both endarterectomy and stenting provide good hemodynamic results regarding limb perfusion. However, other hemodynamic parameters, such as wall shear stress, may not be optimized with either modality, increasing the risk of chronic restenosis. As a high proportion of common femoral artery disease extends into the adjacent arterial segments, further research is warranted to ascertain the optimum hemodynamic stent configuration, as a lower-risk alternative to open surgery.

Citation: Geale AT, et al. Treatment of common femoral artery steno-occlusive disease: a comprehensive review of anatomical and hemodynamic considerations. Treatment of common femoral artery steno-occlusive disease: a comprehensive review of anatomical and hemodynamic considerations. 2024; 65:313-323. doi: 10.23736/S0021-9509.24.13073-X

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38888577/
