PMID: 38888632
Title: Hyaluronic acid to manage radiotoxicities in gynecological cancer patients: a scoping review.

Abstract: PURPOSE: This study aimed to map the use of hyaluronic acid (HA) in preventing and controlling radiotoxicity in women with gynecological cancer undergoing radiotherapy.
METHODS: We conducted a scoping review of eight electronic databases: CINAHL, Cochrane CENTRAL, LILACS, PubMed, Scopus, Embase, LIVIVO, and the Web of Science Core Collection. In addition, a grey literature search was performed using Google Scholar and ProQuest Dissertations & Theses Global. A manual search was also identified additional references. The search was conducted on May 18, 2023. We included primary studies, reviews, and guidelines that discussed the use of HA to prevent and manage the toxicities resulting from gynecological radiotherapy.
RESULTS: Eighteen studies were included in this scoping review, published between 2009 and 2022. There was heterogeneity in the use of HA, particularly in the method of application (moisturizing gel, vaginal ovules, spacer gel, and bladder instillations). Furthermore, the radiotoxicities varied among studies, encompassing, among others, vaginal atrophy, dryness, dyspareunia, telangiectasis, adhesions, vaginal stenosis, bleeding, hematuria, and bladder issues. Most studies addressed the potential benefits of HA in managing the signs and symptoms resulting from radiotherapy.
CONCLUSION: HA has been utilized in clinical practice, in various formulations, for managing signs and symptoms in patients with gynecological cancer undergoing radiotherapy. However, further studies are necessary to thoroughly investigate the most effective method of HA application and its effectiveness in managing radiotoxicity.

Citation: Ribeiro LDS, et al. Hyaluronic acid to manage radiotoxicities in gynecological cancer patients: a scoping review. Hyaluronic acid to manage radiotoxicities in gynecological cancer patients: a scoping review. 2024; 32:439. doi: 10.1007/s00520-024-08614-z

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38888632/
