PMID: 38898830
Title: Treatment of lumbar disc herniation with robot combined with unilateral biportal endoscopic technology: A case report.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: This reported procedure combines the orthopedic surgical robot with the unilateral biportal endoscopy-lumbar interbody fusion (UBE-LIF), utilizing the UBE's wide viewing field and operating space to perform minimally invasive decompressive fusion of the lesioned segment, and the orthopedic surgical robot's intelligence and precision to perform percutaneous pedicle screw placement. The advancement of this procedure lies in the superposition of advantages and offsetting disadvantages of the two new technologies, and the maximum effect of treatment is achieved with maximum minimization of invasiveness and precision under the monitoring of imaging instruments to maximize the benefit of patients, and this review reports a case of multiple-segment lumbar decompression and fusion surgery for lumbar disc herniation via robot-assisted UBE for reference.
CASE SUMMARY: A 44-year-old patient presented to our hospital. Combining various clinical data, we diagnosed the patient with lumbar disc herniation with radiculopathy, lumbar spondylolisthesis, and lumbar spinal stenosis. We developed a surgical plan of "UBE decompression + UBE-LIF + orthopedic surgery robot-assisted percutaneous pedicle screw implantation for internal fixation". The results were satisfactory.
CONCLUSION: We present an extremely rare case of multiple-segment lumbar decompression and fusion surgery for lumbar disc herniation via robot-assisted UBE and achieved good results. Therefore, the technique is worthy of clinical promotion.

Citation: Liu YD, et al. Treatment of lumbar disc herniation with robot combined with unilateral biportal endoscopic technology: A case report. Treatment of lumbar disc herniation with robot combined with unilateral biportal endoscopic technology: A case report. 2024; 12:3235-3242. doi: 10.12998/wjcc.v12.i17.3235

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38898830/
