PMID: 38892881
Title: Visceral Artery Aneurysms in the Presence of Upstream Stenoses.

Abstract: Background: Sutton-Kadir syndrome describes a rare pathology that commonly includes an aneurysm of the inferior pancreaticoduodenal artery in combination with a celiac trunk stenosis or occlusion, often caused by median arcuate ligament compression. Several therapeutic approaches exist including open surgical, endovascular, and hybrid treatments. Other combinations of visceral artery aneurysms and upstream stenoses exist but the cumulative body of evidence on these combinations is weak due to their rarity. Methods: A retrospective analysis of patient data from a single center was carried out. Electronic patient records were filtered for keywords including "visceral aneurysm", "Sutton-Kadir", and "median arcuate ligament". Imaging studies were re-examined by two blinded vascular surgeons with a third vascular surgeon as a referee in case of diverging results. Results: Sixteen patients had a visceral artery aneurysm with an upstream stenosis. All cases had a celiac trunk obstruction while one patient also had a concomitant superior mesenteric artery stenosis. Both median arcuate ligament compression and atherosclerotic lesions were identified. The location of the aneurysms varied even though the inferior pancreaticoduodenal artery was most frequently affected. A classification system based on the different combinations of stenoses and aneurysms is presented and introduced as a new pathologic entity: visceral artery aneurysm in the presence of upstream stenosis (VAPUS). Conclusions: The concomitant presence of visceral artery aneurysms, especially in the pancreaticoduodenal arteries, and blood flow impairment of the celiac axis or superior mesenteric artery is a rare pathology. The proposed VAPUS classification system offers an accessible and transparent route to the precise localization of the affected vessels.

Citation: Hofmann A, et al. Visceral Artery Aneurysms in the Presence of Upstream Stenoses. Visceral Artery Aneurysms in the Presence of Upstream Stenoses. 2024; 13:(unknown pages). doi: 10.3390/jcm13113170

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38892881/
