PMID: 38893628
Title: Ultrasound Carotid Plaque Score and Severity of Coronary Artery Disease Assessed by Computed Tomography Angiography in Patients with Arterial Hypertension.

Abstract: The aim of the study was to assess the relationship between the presence of atherosclerotic lesions in the carotid arteries detected by ultrasound and the occurrence of atherosclerosis in the coronary arteries determined by computed tomography (CT) in patients with arterial hypertension (HTA). A total of 83 patients with HTA were qualified for the study (age: 71.3 ± 8.5 years). All subjects underwent carotid arteries ultrasound and coronary arteries CT. The carotid plaque score was assessed using ultrasound. The studied group was divided into two subgroups: a subgroup with the carotid plaque score ≤ 1 (A) and a subgroup with carotid plaque score ≥2 (B). Coronary arteries CT assessed coronary artery calcium score (CACS) and degree of coronary stenosis based on CAD-RADS. In subgroup B, a significantly higher CACS (411.3 ± 70.1 vs. 93.5 ± 31.8) and significantly higher grade in the CAD-RADS classification were demonstrated than in subgroup A (CAD-RADS ≥ 3: 21.8 vs. 6.0%). The regression analysis showed that carotid plaque score and age are independent risk factors for the severity of atherosclerotic lesions in the coronary arteries. In summary, ultrasound assessment of the carotid plaque score in patients with HTA could be considered as surrogate indicator of the risk and severity of atherosclerotic changes in the coronary arteries, but further studies are necessary to corroborate these results.

Citation: Wysocki A, et al. Ultrasound Carotid Plaque Score and Severity of Coronary Artery Disease Assessed by Computed Tomography Angiography in Patients with Arterial Hypertension. Ultrasound Carotid Plaque Score and Severity of Coronary Artery Disease Assessed by Computed Tomography Angiography in Patients with Arterial Hypertension. 2024; 14:(unknown pages). doi: 10.3390/diagnostics14111101

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38893628/
