PMID: 38896288
Title: TRIM25-mediated XRCC1 ubiquitination accelerates atherosclerosis by inducing macrophage M1 polarization and programmed death.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Macrophage-mediated cleaning up of dead cells is a crucial determinant in reducing coronary artery inflammation and maintaining vascular homeostasis. However, this process also leads to programmed death of macrophages. So far, the role of macrophage death in the progression of atherosclerosis remains controversial. Also, the underlying mechanism by which transcriptional regulation and reprogramming triggered by macrophage death pathways lead to changes in vascular inflammation and remodeling are still largely unknown. TRIM25-mediated RIG-I signaling plays a key role in regulation of macrophages fate, however the role of TRIM25 in macrophage death-mediated atherosclerotic progression remains unclear. This study aims to investigate the relationship between TRIM25 and macrophage death in atherosclerosis.
METHODS: A total of 34 blood samples of patients with coronary stent implantation, including chronic total occlusion (CTO) leisions (n = 14) or with more than 50% stenosis of a coronary artery but without CTO leisions (n = 20), were collected, and the serum level of TRIM25 was detected by ELISA. Apoe-/- mice with or without TRIM25 gene deletion were fed with the high-fat diet (HFD) for 12 weeks and the plaque areas, necrotic core size, aortic fibrosis and inflammation were investigated. TRIM25 wild-type and deficient macrophages were isolated, cultured and stimulated with ox-LDL, RNA-seq, real-time PCR, western blot and FACS experiments were used to screen and validate signaling pathways caused by TRIM25 deletion.
RESULTS: Downregulation of TRIM25 was observed in circulating blood of CTO patients and also in HFD-induced mouse aortas. After HFD for 12 weeks, TRIM25-/-ApoeE-/- mice developed smaller atherosclerotic plaques, less inflammation, lower collagen content and aortic fibrosis compared with TRIM25+/+ApoeE-/- mice. By RNA-seq and KEGG enrichment analysis, we revealed that deletion of TRIM25 mainly affected pyroptosis and necroptosis pathways in ox-LDL-induced macrophages, and the expressions of PARP1 and RIPK3, were significantly decreased in TRIM25 deficient macrophages. Overexpression of TRIM25 promoted M1 polarization and necroptosis of macrophages, while inhibition of PARP1 reversed this process. Further, we observed that XRCC1, a repairer of DNA damage, was significantly upregulated in TRIM25 deficient macrophages, inhibiting PARP1 activity and PARP1-mediated pro-inflammatory change, M1 polarization and necroptosis of macrophages. By contrast, TRIM25 overexpression mediated ubiquitination of XRCC1, and the inhibition of XRCC1 released PARP1, and activated macrophage M1 polarization and necroptosis, which accelerated aortic inflammation and atherosclerotic plaque progression.
CONCLUSIONS: Our study has uncovered a crucial role of the TRIM25-XRCC1Ub-PARP1-RIPK3 axis in regulating macrophage death during atherosclerosis, and we highlight the potential therapeutic significance of macrophage reprogramming regulation in preventing the development of atherosclerosis.

Citation: Wu H, et al. TRIM25-mediated XRCC1 ubiquitination accelerates atherosclerosis by inducing macrophage M1 polarization and programmed death. TRIM25-mediated XRCC1 ubiquitination accelerates atherosclerosis by inducing macrophage M1 polarization and programmed death. 2024; 73:1445-1458. doi: 10.1007/s00011-024-01906-4

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38896288/
