PMID: 38908097
Title: Risk, prevention, screening and management of carotid artery stenosis in head & neck cancer patients-An evidence based review.

Abstract: Our review aims to clarify the incidence of carotid artery stenosis, risks of development, screening, management, and primary prevention strategies documented in the literature after radiation therapy for head and neck cancers. The high prevalence of carotid stenosis after radiation therapy for head and neck cancers has made surveillance and risk stratification critical. In addition to general cardiovascular risk factors such as smoking, diabetes, and dyslipidemia, risk factors for carotid artery stenosis after head and neck radiation included total plaque score, radiotherapy use and dosage, length of time after radiotherapy, and age greater than 50. Cancer subtype, namely nasopharyngeal cancer, may be correlated with increased risk as well, though contrasting results have been found. Interestingly, however, no significant relationship has been found between radiotherapy dose and stroke risk. Surgical management of post-radiation carotid stenosis is similar to that of stenosis unrelated to radiation, with carotid endarterectomy considered to be the gold standard treatment and carotid artery stenting being an acceptable, less-invasive alternative. Medical management of these patients has not been well-studied, but antiplatelet therapy, statins, and blood pressure control may be beneficial. The mainstay of screening for radiation-induced stenosis has been Doppler ultrasound, with measurement of changes in the intima-media thickness being a primary marker of disease development. A literature review was carried out using the MeSH terms "Carotid Artery Stenosis," "Head and Neck Neoplasms," and "Radiotherapy."

Citation: Rosen R, et al. Risk, prevention, screening and management of carotid artery stenosis in head & neck cancer patients-An evidence based review. Risk, prevention, screening and management of carotid artery stenosis in head & neck cancer patients-An evidence based review. 2024; 156:106876. doi: 10.1016/j.oraloncology.2024.106876

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38908097/
