PMID: 38905767
Title: Single-Stage Bronchoscopy-Guided Protocol for Tracheostomy Decannulation in Adult Patients.

Abstract: INTRODUCTION: Tracheostomy decannulation is a routine procedure in airway management. There is no standard decannulation method; however, the two commonly practiced approaches are tracheostomy downsizing and intermittent capping, which are both accompanied by multiple visits to the clinic and increase patient discomfort. Herein, we explore fiberoptic bronchoscopy application in a novel single-stage decannulation protocol.
METHODS: We conducted a retrospective study on tracheostomy patients eligible for decannulation. Fiberoptic bronchoscopy was performed on patients with spontaneous ventilation for ≥48 h, age ≥18, hemodynamic stability, normal chest X-ray, adequate swallowing, effective cough, adequate consciousness, patent speaking valve, and absent history of recurrent aspiration. Tracheostomy removal occurred after evaluating the airway and ruling out tracheomalacia, tracheitis with stenosis, obstructive granulation tissue, and moderate-to-severe stenosis. We documented patients' demographic and clinical information, along with details of their post-decannulation course.
RESULTS: Out of 58 patients admitted for tracheostomy removal, we excluded six patients (10.3%) from the study because, despite clinical indications for successful weaning, they exhibited abnormalities that interrupted the decannulation process. Of the remaining 52 patients, 50 (96.1%) were successfully weaned off, while two needed reinsertion during their hospital course. Bronchoscopy findings were unremarkable in 33 (63.5%) patients, and the most frequently observed abnormalities were paucity of vocal cord movement in 5 (9.6%) patients and granulation tissue formation in 5 (9.6%) patients. No further airway management was necessary after discharge.
CONCLUSIONS: Our study introduces the innovative approach of single-stage bronchoscopic decannulation as a potentially beneficial tool for immediate decannulation. Based on our experience, we achieved a relatively satisfactory outcome following single-stage tracheostomy decannulation with bronchoscopy. The approach shows promise in providing valuable airway insights and predicting possible decannulation failures. Further research is needed to evaluate its impact on stress reduction for patients and surgeons, its superiority compared to traditional techniques, its long-term effects on healthcare, and its potential cost-effectiveness.

Citation: Mardani P, et al. Single-Stage Bronchoscopy-Guided Protocol for Tracheostomy Decannulation in Adult Patients. Single-Stage Bronchoscopy-Guided Protocol for Tracheostomy Decannulation in Adult Patients. 2024; 301:1-9. doi: 10.1016/j.jss.2024.05.035

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38905767/
