PMID: 38907650
Title: Effectiveness and Safety of Superimposed High-Frequency Jet Ventilation in Rigid Bronchoscopy: A Single-Center, Retrospective Study.

Abstract: Introduction: Superimposed high-frequency jet ventilation (SHFJV) is a new type of jet ventilation, but its safety and effectiveness in rigid bronchoscopy have not been fully verified, especially in patients with airway stenosis and preoperative cardiovascular disease. This study is intended to retrospectively analyze the effectiveness and safety of SHFJV in the endobronchial treatment under rigid bronchoscopy. Methods: A total of 363 patients were included in this study. They were divided into 2 groups: Group A (n = 176)-presence of airway stenosis; Group B (n = 187)-absence of airway stenosis. Mean arterial pressure, heart rate, and pulse oxygen saturation were recorded before anesthesia and during the procedure. Arterial blood gases was recorded before anesthesia, at the end of the procedure and second-day postoperation respectively. The duration of procedure, extubation time, length of stay in the postanesthesia care unit (PACU), length of postoperative hospitalization, incidence of intraoperative and postoperative complications as well as 30 day mortality were also recorded. Results: All the patients had stable circulation during the procedure, including that with preoperative cardiovascular and pulmonary diseases. There were no substantial differences observed in terms of extubation time, PACU stay, and postoperative hospital days. Patients with severe preoperative airway stenosis exhibited longer procedure duration compared to those with mild to moderate stenosis, but there was no difference noted in terms of the extubation and PACU time. Conclusion: SHFJV is effective and safe in the endobronchial treatment for patients with airway stenosis and preoperative cardiovascular disease. It can serve as an ideal airway management strategy for rigid bronchoscopy.

Citation: Li J, et al. Effectiveness and Safety of Superimposed High-Frequency Jet Ventilation in Rigid Bronchoscopy: A Single-Center, Retrospective Study. Effectiveness and Safety of Superimposed High-Frequency Jet Ventilation in Rigid Bronchoscopy: A Single-Center, Retrospective Study. 2024; (unknown volume):1455613241261594. doi: 10.1177/01455613241261594

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38907650/
