PMID: 38912118
Title: Severe multifocal coronary artery spasms after cessation of vasodilators in a patient with a spontaneous coronary artery dissection: a case report.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Vasospastic angina (VSA) and spontaneous coronary artery dissection (SCAD) are challenging causes of non-atherosclerotic acute coronary syndromes (ACS). Here, we report a unique ACS case with coexisting VSA and SCAD, highlighting specific strategies in diagnosis and management of these poorly studied conditions.
CASE SUMMARY: A woman in her mid-60s with a history of suspected microvascular angina and no atherosclerosis in a previously performed coronary computed tomography angiography presented with worsening chest pain. Invasive coronary angiography revealed a focal SCAD with a resulting high-degree stenosis of the right coronary artery. Shortly after successful percutaneous coronary intervention with stent implantation and stopping her previous vasodilator therapy with nitroglycerine and molsidomine, the patient developed recurrent anterior non-ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction. Surprisingly, repeat coronary angiography revealed severe multifocal coronary artery spasms that were successfully treated with intracoronary nitroglycerine. Vasospastic angina was subsequently managed with diltiazem, molsidomine, and nitrates.
DISCUSSION: Our report underscores the challenges in diagnosing and managing SCAD and VSA in ACS. The possible interplay between SCAD and VSA highlights the need for careful vasodilator therapy management, as seen in our patient, where therapy discontinuation led to severe multifocal VSA. This emphasizes the need for a comprehensive approach for optimal outcomes in complex ACS cases.

Citation: Steffek Z, et al. Severe multifocal coronary artery spasms after cessation of vasodilators in a patient with a spontaneous coronary artery dissection: a case report. Severe multifocal coronary artery spasms after cessation of vasodilators in a patient with a spontaneous coronary artery dissection: a case report. 2024; 8:ytae282. doi: 10.1093/ehjcr/ytae282

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38912118/
