PMID: 38910495
Title: Hemodialysis bilayer bionic blood vessels developed by the mechanical stimulation of hepatitis B viral X(HBX) gene- transfected hepatic stellate cells.

Abstract: Artificial vascular graft (AVG) fistula is widely used for hemodialysis treatment in patients with renal failure. However, it has poor elasticity and compliance, leading to stenosis and thrombosis. The ideal artificial blood vessel for dialysis should replicate the structure and components of a real artery, which is primarily maintained by collagen in the extracellular matrix (ECM) of arterial cells. Studies have revealed that in hepatitis B virus (HBV)-induced liver fibrosis, hepatic stellate cells (HSCs) become hyperactive and produce excessive ECM fibers. Furthermore, mechanical stimulation can encourage ECM secretion and remodeling of a fiber structure. Based on the above factors, we transfected HSCs with the hepatitis B viral X (HBX) gene for simulating the process of HBV infection. Subsequently, these HBX-HSCs were implanted into a polycaprolactone-polyurethane (PCL-PU) bilayer scaffold in which the inner layer is dense and the outer layer consists of pores, which was mechanically stimulated to promote the secretion of collagen nanofiber from the HBX-HSCs and to facilitate crosslinking with the scaffold. We obtained an ECM-PCL-PU composite bionic blood vessel that could act as access for dialysis after decellularization. Then, the vessel scaffold was implanted into a rabbit's neck arteriovenous fistula model. It exhibited strong tensile strength and smooth blood flow and formed autologous blood vessels in the rabbit's body. Our study demonstrates the use of human cells to create biomimetic dialysis blood vessels, providing a novel approach for creating clinical vascular access for dialysis.

Citation: Liu H, et al. Hemodialysis bilayer bionic blood vessels developed by the mechanical stimulation of hepatitis B viral X(HBX) gene- transfected hepatic stellate cells. Hemodialysis bilayer bionic blood vessels developed by the mechanical stimulation of hepatitis B viral X(HBX) gene- transfected hepatic stellate cells. 2024; 25:499-512. doi: 10.1631/jzus.B2300479

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38910495/
