PMID: 38912456
Title: A case of congenital bronchial atresia with tracheobronchial stenosis caused by emphysema: Successful management with thoracoscopic surgery.

Abstract: INTRODUCTION: Congenital bronchial atresia (CBA), as a rare developmental abnormality of the lung, is usually asymptomatic and is accidently discovered in most cases. Currently, no standardized guidelines for the treatment or management of CBA have been established.
CASE PRESENTATION: A 22-year-old male soldier was referred to Shanghai Changhai Hospital, The First Affiliated Hospital of Naval Medical University due to chest tightness and shortness of breath after repeated strenuous activities. Contrast-enhanced computed tomography (CT) revealed an 18mm × 11mm solitary, well-circumscribed, and solid nodule with no enhancement in the right upper lobe (RUL), and emphysematous changes distributed throughout the RUL. A flexible bronchoscopic examination showed extrinsic compression stenosis in the bronchial opening of the right middle lobe (RML). After three-dimensional (3D) reconstruction CT and a multidisciplinary consultation, a diagnosis of CBA in the anterior segment (B3) of RUL was established. Subsequently, thoracoscopic right upper lobectomy was performed and resulted in an improved respiratory capacity 6 months after surgery. To date, the patient has good quality of life without any complication.
CONCLUSION: This study underscores the role of bronchoscopy, 3D reconstruction CT, and a multidisciplinary consultation in the diagnosis of CBA, and highlights that a thoracoscopic intervention should be considered in such case.

Citation: Lin H, et al. A case of congenital bronchial atresia with tracheobronchial stenosis caused by emphysema: Successful management with thoracoscopic surgery. A case of congenital bronchial atresia with tracheobronchial stenosis caused by emphysema: Successful management with thoracoscopic surgery. 2024; 10:e32753. doi: 10.1016/j.heliyon.2024.e32753

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38912456/
