PMID: 38915705
Title: Multi-parametric thrombus profiling microfluidics detects intensified biomechanical thrombogenesis associated with hypertension and aging.

Abstract: Arterial thrombosis, which represents a critical complication of cardiovascular diseases, is a leading cause of death and disability worldwide with no effective bioassay for clinical prediction. As a symbolic feature of arterial thrombosis, severe stenosis in the blood vessel creates a high-shear, high-gradient flow environment that effectively facilitates platelet aggregation towards vessel occlusion even with platelet amplification loops inhibited. However, no approach is currently available to comprehensively characterize the size, composition and platelet activation status of thrombi forming under this biorheological condition. Here, we present a thrombus profiling assay that monitors the multi-dimensional attributes of thrombi forming in conditions mimicking the physiological scenario of arterial thrombosis. Using this platform, we demonstrate that different receptor-ligand interactions contribute distinctively to the composition and activation status of the thrombus. Our investigation into hypertensive and older individuals reveals intensified biomechanical thrombogenesis and multi-dimensional thrombus profile abnormalities, demonstrating a direct contribution of mechanobiology to arterial thrombosis and endorsing the diagnostic potential of the assay. Furthermore, we identify the hyperactivity of GPIbα-integrin α<sub>IIb</sub>β<sub>3</sub> mechanosensing axis as a molecular mechanism that contributes to hypertension-associated arterial thrombosis. By studying the interactions between anti-thrombotic inhibitors and hypertension, and the inter-individual variability in personal thrombus profiles, our work reveals a critical need for personalized anti-thrombotic drug selection that accommodates each patient's pathological profile.

Citation: Din M, et al. Multi-parametric thrombus profiling microfluidics detects intensified biomechanical thrombogenesis associated with hypertension and aging. Multi-parametric thrombus profiling microfluidics detects intensified biomechanical thrombogenesis associated with hypertension and aging. 2024; (unknown volume):(unknown pages). doi: 10.1101/2024.06.11.598290

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38915705/
