PMID: 38910593
Title: Bibliometric and Visualization Analysis of Research Hotspots and Frontiers in Endoscopic Lumbar Discectomy.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: The increasing utilization of endoscopic lumbar discectomy (ELD) in spinal surgery has sparked widespread interest and research. This study utilizes bibliometric analysis to identify current research trends and advancements in this innovative surgical technique, with the goal of informing and improving surgical practices.
METHODS: We retrieved relevant literature on ELD from the Science Citation Index Expanded (SCI-Expanded) within the Web of Science Core Collection (WoSCC) database as research samples. Various visualization tools, such as VOSviewer, CiteSpace, Scimago Graphica, Pajek, and online bibliometric platform, were employed to generate scientific knowledge maps for the purpose of visual presentation and data analysis.
RESULTS: Over the past two decades, there has been significant progress in the research related to ELD, particularly since 2016. China has emerged as the most productive country, while South Korea and the United States have exerted greater academic influence. Tongji University has contributed the highest number of research output, while academic achievements published by Wooridul Spine Hospital are highly esteemed by scholars. Lee SH and Ruetten S are the most prolific author and the most highly cited author, respectively. World Neurosurg has published the highest number of publications, while Spine has become the most influential journal. Clinical Neurology and Surgery are the primary subject categories. Research in this field primarily revolves around improving ELD techniques, evaluating postoperative efficacy and prognosis prediction, studying complications and risk factors, as well as comparative research with other surgical techniques. Keywords such as risk factors, LDH, PETD, lumbar spinal stenosis, degeneration, recurrent herniation, laminectomy, local anesthesia, and foraminoplasty highlight the current research hotspots and future cutting-edge trends.
CONCLUSION: This study employed bibliometric analysis to elucidate the research hotspots and frontiers in ELD. The findings have significant implications for advancing research and development in this field.

Citation: Zhong Y, et al. Bibliometric and Visualization Analysis of Research Hotspots and Frontiers in Endoscopic Lumbar Discectomy. Bibliometric and Visualization Analysis of Research Hotspots and Frontiers in Endoscopic Lumbar Discectomy. 2024; 17:2165-2190. doi: 10.2147/JPR.S450586

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38910593/
