PMID: 38919862
Title: Case Report and Literature Review of an Anomalous Course of the Left Main Coronary Artery (LMCA) Arising From the Right Sinus of Valsalva (RSV) Presenting as Takotsubo Cardiomyopathy.

Abstract: Takotsubo cardiomyopathy (TC) mimics myocardial infarction with symptoms like chest pain, electrocardiogram (EKG) changes, and elevated troponin levels, although it typically features normal coronary arteries upon angiography. While often asymptomatic, coronary artery anomalies (CAAs) can cause intermittent vasospasm and endothelial dysfunction, potentially inducing TC. We report the case of a 74-year-old female with a history of hypertension, hyperlipidemia, and peripheral artery disease, who presented with sudden onset chest pain. Initial EKG and elevated troponin suggested myocardial infarction. However, coronary angiography revealed an anomalous left main coronary artery (LMCA) originating from the right coronary artery (RCA), with no significant stenosis. Subsequent transthoracic echocardiography indicated TC, with the left ventricular ejection fraction improving from 35-40% to 60-65% within days. Cardiac computed tomography angiography (CCTA) revealed that the anomalous LMCA originated from the common trunk at the right sinus of Valsalva (RSV), which further continued as a large, dominant RCA. The LMCA branched into a small to moderate left anterior descending artery (LAD) and a non-dominant left circumflex artery (LCx). The LMCA followed a prepulmonic/anterior course, while the LCx took an interarterial course between the aorta and pulmonary artery. The patient was referred for further surgical evaluation. We conclude that the CAA was an incidental finding and was not related to underlying TC. Although rare, this case suggests a possible correlation between CAAs and a predisposition to stress-induced cardiomyopathy, warranting further investigation.

Citation: Gaddameedi SR, et al. Case Report and Literature Review of an Anomalous Course of the Left Main Coronary Artery (LMCA) Arising From the Right Sinus of Valsalva (RSV) Presenting as Takotsubo Cardiomyopathy. Case Report and Literature Review of an Anomalous Course of the Left Main Coronary Artery (LMCA) Arising From the Right Sinus of Valsalva (RSV) Presenting as Takotsubo Cardiomyopathy. 2024; 16:e63028. doi: 10.7759/cureus.63028

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38919862/
