PMID: 38925298
Title: Hysterectomy-a possible risk factor for operative intervention in female patients for degenerative lumbar spine conditions: a case control and cohort study.

Abstract: BACKGROUND CONTEXT: Researchers have recently linked hysterectomy, which alters sex hormone levels, to diseases like osteoporosis, lumbar spondylolisthesis, hypertension and diabetes etc. However, the association between hysterectomy and lumbar disc herniation (LDH)/lumbar spinal stenosis (LSS) remains unclarified.
PURPOSE: To determine whether there is a correlation between hysterectomy and surgical intervention for LDH/LSS in women, further substantiated through imaging and clinical research.
STUDY DESIGN: A case control and cohort study.
PATIENT SAMPLE: The study group comprised 1202 female patients aged 45 and older who had undergone operative treatment due to LDH/LSS (825 for LDH and 377 for LSS), and the comparison group comprised 1168 females without lumbar diseases who visited health examination clinic during the same period. One hundred and 2 hysterectomized patients were further selected (Hysterectomy cohort) and matched approximately with the control cohort at a 1:2 ratio from the study group with a minimum follow-up of 2 years.
OUTCOME MEASURES: Odds ratios (ORs) and 95% confidence intervals (CIs) were calculated to assess the association between hysterectomy and surgical intervention for LDH/LSS in women after adjusted by confounding factors. Patients from both the hysterectomy and control cohorts underwent a comprehensive assessment. This assessment included the evaluation of several parameters: the functional cross-sectional area, fat infiltration rate, relative functional cross-sectional area of the lumbar paravertebral muscles, facet joint degeneration grade, cartilage endplate damage, Modic changes for the L3/4-L5/S1 segments, Pfirrmann grade of lumbar disc degeneration, and disc height index for the L1/2-L5/S1 segments. Additionally, the Visual Analog Scale (VAS) and Japanese Orthopaedic Association (JOA) scores were recorded preoperatively and at the last follow-up.
METHODS: Associations between hysterectomy and patients treated surgically for LDH or LSS were analyzed using multivariate binomial logistic regression analysis. Lumbar X-ray, computed tomography (CT) and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) were used to evaluate the imaging variables. Imaging and clinical variables were compared.
RESULTS: Hysterectomized women were associated with requiring surgery due to LDH/LSS, with ORs of 2.613 (p<.001) and 2.084 (p=.006), respectively. The imaging evaluation further revealed that the hysterectomy cohort had more severe degeneration of the paraspinal muscles, facet joints, endplates, and intervertebral discs, Modic changes at L3/4-L5/S1 segments, and intervertebral height reduction at L1/2-L5/S1 segments when compared to the control cohort (p<.01). Compared to the control cohort, the hysterectomy cohort exhibited higher preoperative and last follow-up VAS scores for low back pain, and last follow-up JOA scores (p<.01).
CONCLUSIONS: Based on the findings of this study, it seems that women who have had a hysterectomy are correlated with requiring surgical intervention due to LDH/LSS. Imaging and clinical studies also indicate that hysterectomized patients exhibited more severe lumbar degeneration and back pain.

Citation: Zhang Y, et al. Hysterectomy-a possible risk factor for operative intervention in female patients for degenerative lumbar spine conditions: a case control and cohort study. Hysterectomy-a possible risk factor for operative intervention in female patients for degenerative lumbar spine conditions: a case control and cohort study. 2024; 24:2066-2077. doi: 10.1016/j.spinee.2024.06.019

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38925298/
