PMID: 38927848
Title: The Effect of Transverse Sinus Stenosis Caused by Arachnoid Granulation on Patients with Venous Pulsatile Tinnitus: A Multiphysics Interaction Simulation Investigation.

Abstract: This study aimed to investigate the effect of the transverse sinus (TS) stenosis (TSS) position caused by arachnoid granulation on patients with venous pulsatile tinnitus (VPT) and to further identify the types of TSS that are of therapeutic significance for patients. Multiphysics interaction models of six patients with moderate TSS caused by arachnoid granulation and virtual stent placement in TSS were reconstructed, including three patients with TSS located in the middle segment of the TS (group 1) and three patients with TTS in the middle and proximal involvement segment of the TS (group 2). The transient multiphysics interaction simulation method was applied to elucidate the differences in biomechanical and acoustic parameters between the two groups. The results revealed that the blood flow pattern at the TS and sigmoid sinus junction was significantly changed depending on the stenosis position. Preoperative patients had increased blood flow in the TSS region and TSS downstream where the blood flow impacted the vessel wall. In group 1, the postoperative blood flow pattern, average wall pressure, vessel wall vibration, and sound pressure level of the three patients were comparable to the preoperative state. However, the postoperative blood flow velocity decreased in group 2. The postoperative average wall pressure, vessel wall vibration, and sound pressure level of the three patients were significantly improved compared with the preoperative state. Intravascular intervention therapy should be considered for patients with moderate TSS caused by arachnoid granulations in the middle and proximal involvement segment of the TS. TSS might not be considered the cause of VPT symptoms in patients with moderate TSS caused by arachnoid granulation in the middle segment of the TS.

Citation: Mu Z, et al. The Effect of Transverse Sinus Stenosis Caused by Arachnoid Granulation on Patients with Venous Pulsatile Tinnitus: A Multiphysics Interaction Simulation Investigation. The Effect of Transverse Sinus Stenosis Caused by Arachnoid Granulation on Patients with Venous Pulsatile Tinnitus: A Multiphysics Interaction Simulation Investigation. 2024; 11:(unknown pages). doi: 10.3390/bioengineering11060612

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38927848/
