PMID: 38929911
Title: Predicting Major Adverse Carotid Cerebrovascular Events in Patients with Carotid Stenosis: Integrating a Panel of Plasma Protein Biomarkers and Clinical Features-A Pilot Study.

Abstract: Background: Carotid stenosis (CS) is an atherosclerotic disease of the carotid artery that can lead to devastating cardiovascular outcomes such as stroke, disability, and death. The currently available treatment for CS is medical management through risk reduction, including control of hypertension, diabetes, and/or hypercholesterolemia. Surgical interventions are currently suggested for patients with symptomatic disease with stenosis &gt;50%, where patients have suffered from a carotid-related event such as a cerebrovascular accident, or asymptomatic disease with stenosis &gt;60% if the long-term risk of death is &lt;3%. There is a lack of current plasma protein biomarkers available to predict patients at risk of such adverse events. Methods: In this study, we investigated several growth factors and biomarkers of inflammation as potential biomarkers for adverse CS events such as stroke, need for surgical intervention, myocardial infarction, and cardiovascular-related death. In this pilot study, we use a support vector machine (SVM), random forest models, and the following four significantly elevated biomarkers: C-X-C Motif Chemokine Ligand 6 (CXCL6); Interleukin-2 (IL-2); Galectin-9; and angiopoietin-like protein (ANGPTL4). Results: Our SVM model best predicted carotid cerebrovascular events with an area under the curve (AUC) of &gt;0.8 and an accuracy of 0.88, demonstrating strong prognostic capability. Conclusions: Our SVM model may be used for risk stratification of patients with CS to determine those who may benefit from surgical intervention.

Citation: Khan H, et al. Predicting Major Adverse Carotid Cerebrovascular Events in Patients with Carotid Stenosis: Integrating a Panel of Plasma Protein Biomarkers and Clinical Features-A Pilot Study. Predicting Major Adverse Carotid Cerebrovascular Events in Patients with Carotid Stenosis: Integrating a Panel of Plasma Protein Biomarkers and Clinical Features-A Pilot Study. 2024; 13:(unknown pages). doi: 10.3390/jcm13123382

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38929911/
