PMID: 38926851
Title: Comparative clinical efficacy of percutaneous coaxial large-channel endoscopic lumbar interbody fusion and transforaminal lumbar interbody fusion for degenerative lumbar spinal stenosis: a retrospective study.

Abstract: This study aimed to evaluate the clinical efficacy of percutaneous coaxial large-channel endoscopic lumbar interbody fusion (PCLE-LIF) and transforaminal lumbar interbody fusion (TLIF) in the treatment of degenerative lumbar spinal stenosis. The clinical data of patients with degenerative lumbar spinal stenosis who underwent PCLE-LIF (experimental group) and TLIF (control group) surgery from September 2019 to September 2021 were retrospectively analyzed. We collected clinical data and compared the two groups in terms of perioperative parameters, treatment response rate, inflammatory response markers, postoperative complications, postoperative pain, and functional recovery. The results showed that the treatment outcomes in the experimental group were significantly better than those in the control group. Specifically, perioperative parameters and inflammatory response markers in the experimental group were significantly better than those in the control group, with statistically significant differences (P < 0.05). The overall treatment response rate in the experimental group was significantly higher than that in the control group (P < 0.05). Meanwhile, the incidence of postoperative complications in the experimental group was lower than that in the control group, postoperative VAS pain scores and ODI functional scores were lower, and postoperative JOA functional scores were higher than those in the control group, with statistically significant differences (P < 0.05). In conclusion, PCLE-LIF appears to be a promising technique with better clinical outcomes in the treatment of degenerative lumbar spinal stenosis.

Citation: Liu Z, et al. Comparative clinical efficacy of percutaneous coaxial large-channel endoscopic lumbar interbody fusion and transforaminal lumbar interbody fusion for degenerative lumbar spinal stenosis: a retrospective study. Comparative clinical efficacy of percutaneous coaxial large-channel endoscopic lumbar interbody fusion and transforaminal lumbar interbody fusion for degenerative lumbar spinal stenosis: a retrospective study. 2024; 25:496. doi: 10.1186/s12891-024-07608-6

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38926851/
