PMID: 38935221
Title: Embolization with or without portal vein stenting for bleeding ectopic jejunal varices in hepatopetal portal collaterals due to extrahepatic portal vein occlusion or stenosis after hepatobiliary and pancreatic surgery.

Abstract: PURPOSE: To evaluate the efficacy and safety of embolization with or without portal vein stenting for bleeding ectopic jejunal varices in the hepatopetal portal collateral due to extrahepatic portal vein occlusion or stenosis after hepatobiliary and pancreatic surgery.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: This study included consecutive patients who underwent embolization for bleeding ectopic jejunal varices in the hepatopetal collateral due to extrahepatic portal vein occlusion or stenosis after hepatobiliary and pancreatic surgery between September 2012 and December 2020. The safety, technical and clinical success rates (no re-bleeding within 1 month) and re-bleeding-free survival after the first therapy and overall survival were assessed.
RESULTS: Fourteen sessions in 11 patients were included. Four patients (7 sessions) underwent variceal embolization only, and the remaining seven patients (7 sessions) underwent portal vein stenting and variceal embolization. Technical success was achieved in all 14 sessions (100%). Clinical success was achieved in 13 of 14 sessions (92.9%). No treatment-related serious complications including liver failure were observed. One-year and 2-year re-bleeding-free survival rate after the first endovascular therapy in all 11 patients was 90.9 and 60.6%, respectively. Two patients who experienced re-bleeding had repeat embolization treatment. There was no significant difference in re-bleeding-free survival after endovascular therapy between the combination with stenting and embolization group and the embolization-only group (p = 0.13).
CONCLUSION: Embolization with or without portal vein stenting of bleeding ectopic jejunal varices in the hepatopetal portal collateral due to extrahepatic portal vein occlusion or stenosis after hepatobiliary and pancreatic surgery can be considered a safe, effective, and repeatable therapy for long-term hemostasis of uncontrollable bleeding.

Citation: Ogawa S, et al. Embolization with or without portal vein stenting for bleeding ectopic jejunal varices in hepatopetal portal collaterals due to extrahepatic portal vein occlusion or stenosis after hepatobiliary and pancreatic surgery. Embolization with or without portal vein stenting for bleeding ectopic jejunal varices in hepatopetal portal collaterals due to extrahepatic portal vein occlusion or stenosis after hepatobiliary and pancreatic surgery. 2024; 42:1342-1351. doi: 10.1007/s11604-024-01616-1

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38935221/
