PMID: 38937390
Title: Laparoscopic redo surgery for sigmoid volvulus following laparoscopic sigmoidectomy.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Sigmoid volvulus (SV) is an acute abdominal condition characterized by torsion of the sigmoid colon around the mesentery, and often results in intestinal obstruction that may progress to bowel ischemia, necrosis, or perforation. Although SV commonly occurs due to predisposing factors like anatomic variations, age-related motility disorders, chronic constipation, and neurologic diseases, its incidence following sigmoid colon cancer surgery has rarely been reported. Herein, we report a rare case of recurrent SV following laparoscopic sigmoidectomy, which was successfully treated by laparoscopic redo surgery.
CASE PRESENTATION: The patient was a 77-year-old man who had previously undergone laparoscopic sigmoidectomy for sigmoid colon cancer. Sixteen months postoperatively, he developed an incisional hernia at the umbilical site, which was treated with a laparoscopic repair using an intraperitoneal onlay mesh. After the hernia surgery, the patient had no anastomotic leakage or stenosis on regular follow-ups. However, 65 months after the first surgery, he presented with abdominal pain and distension. A computed tomography revealed that the remnant sigmoid colon was distended in a twisting manner around the anastomosis, leading to the diagnosis of SV. Although endoscopic de-torsion was successful, the SV recurred 2 months later, requiring elective laparoscopic redo surgery. The procedure involved resection of the sigmoid colon including the prior anastomosis with a left pararectal incision and DST re-anastomosis using a 25-mm circular stapler. The operation lasted 165 min with minimal bleeding and no complications. The postoperative course was uneventful. Pathological analysis confirmed fibrosis without malignancy. The patient remains well without recurrence of SV and anastomotic stenosis more than 5 years after surgery.
CONCLUSION: SV following sigmoid colon cancer surgery has rarely been reported. This case illustrates the potential need for prophylaxis against postoperative SV, especially in patients with long sigmoid colon undergoing laparoscopic surgery for colorectal cancer. Further, laparoscopic redo surgery following initial laparoscopic surgery for colorectal cancer can be performed with minimal invasiveness, especially if patient selection is properly managed.

Citation: Masui H, et al. Laparoscopic redo surgery for sigmoid volvulus following laparoscopic sigmoidectomy. Laparoscopic redo surgery for sigmoid volvulus following laparoscopic sigmoidectomy. 2024; 10:163. doi: 10.1186/s40792-024-01961-3

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38937390/
