PMID: 38942621
Title: Impact of Sex on Long-Term Outcomes Following Surgical Aortic Valve Replacement.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: The impact of sex on outcomes following surgical aortic valve replacement (SAVR) remains unclear. It has been proposed that females experience inferior outcomes, but this has yet to be conclusively established, particularly in the long term. The objective of this study is to identify discrepancies in postoperative outcomes between males and females following SAVR to better inform consideration for surgical intervention.
METHOD: We retrospectively reviewed the outcomes of 4,927 patients who underwent SAVR from 2004 to 2018 at our centre. In total, 531 propensity-matched males and females were included in the final analysis. The primary outcome was mortality at any point during the follow-up period. Secondary outcomes included various measures of postoperative morbidity. Follow-up duration was 15 years.
RESULTS: In SAVR all-comers, females experienced inferior short-term mortality, but equivalent mid-term and long-term mortality. Rates of mediastinal bleeding, sternal wound infections, sepsis, heart failure, and pacemaker insertion were all equivalent between the sexes; however, males experienced a higher rate of acute kidney injury and readmission for stroke at the longest follow-up while females experienced a longer intensive care unit and hospital length of stay. In a sub-analysis of isolated SAVR, males and females experienced equivalent early, mid, and late mortality. Of note, a trend towards increased aortic valve reoperation was noted in females at the longest follow-up.
CONCLUSIONS: Males and females experience equivalent long-term mortality following isolated SAVR. Sex is not an independent risk factor of poor outcomes post-SAVR; however, the increased preoperative risk profile of females requires diligent consideration.

Citation: Fialka NM, et al. Impact of Sex on Long-Term Outcomes Following Surgical Aortic Valve Replacement. Impact of Sex on Long-Term Outcomes Following Surgical Aortic Valve Replacement. 2024; 33:1331-1339. doi: 10.1016/j.hlc.2024.03.006

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38942621/
