PMID: 38944005
Title: Association of head and neck CT-derived sarcopenia with mortality and adverse outcomes: A systematic review.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: There is growing interest in the association of CT-assessed sarcopenia with adverse outcomes in non-oncological settings.
PURPOSE: The aim of this systematic review is to summarize existing literature on the prognostic implications of CT-assessed sarcopenia in non-oncological patients.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Three independent authors searched Medline/PubMed, Embase and Cochrane Library up to 30 December 2023 for observational studies that reported the presence of sarcopenia defined on CT head and neck in association with mortality estimates and other adverse outcomes, in non-oncological patients. The quality of included studies were assessed using the Quality of Prognostic Studies tool.
RESULTS: Overall, 15 studies (3829 participants) were included. Nine studies were at low risk of bias, and six were at moderate risk of bias. Patient populations included those admitted for trauma or treatment of intracranial aneurysms, ischemic stroke, transient ischemic attack, and intracranial stenosis. Sarcopenia was associated with increased 30-day to 2-year mortality in inpatients and patients undergoing carotid endarterectomy or mechanical thrombectomy for acute ischemic stroke. Sarcopenia was also associated with poorer neurological and functional outcomes, increased likelihood of admission to long-term care facilities, and longer duration of hospital stays. The observed associations of sarcopenia with adverse outcomes remained similar across different imaging modalities and methods for quantifying sarcopenia.
CONCLUSION: CT-assessed sarcopenia was associated with increased mortality and poorer outcomes across diverse patient populations. Measurement and early identification of sarcopenia in vulnerable patients allows for enhanced prognostication, and focused allocation of resources to mitigate adverse outcomes.

Citation: Koh JH, et al. Association of head and neck CT-derived sarcopenia with mortality and adverse outcomes: A systematic review. Association of head and neck CT-derived sarcopenia with mortality and adverse outcomes: A systematic review. 2024; 126:105549. doi: 10.1016/j.archger.2024.105549

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38944005/
