PMID: 38943940
Title: Single stage cricoid split laryngoplasty with costochondral rib grafting is a novel approach to treat subglottic stenosis in a paediatric patient: A case report.

Abstract: INTRODUCTION AND IMPORTANCE: Subglottic stenosis (SGS) appears to be a commonly encountered condition in the paediatric age group. Single stage cricoid split laryngoplasty with costochondral rib grafting in paediatric patients is a unique, innovative, and advanced operation in nature. Morbidity and mortality rates can be minimized with early diagnosis and prompt treatment.
PRESENTATION OF CASE: Presenting the case of a 13-month-old child diagnosed with Grade II SGS who was managed for cricoid split laryngoplasty with a costochondral rib graft. It was a unique strategy for providing infants and neonates with symptomatic SGS with a safe and efficient substitute for long-term tracheostomy. When healing was completed, the patient regained the function of their airway. The approach was successful, and preventable to long-term tracheostomy.
DISCUSSION: Performing this procedure early in children has shown higher rates of success and it is safe and effective. Further extensive research and studies need to be conducted in this domain, and every patient's status should be reviewed time and again to tend to their specific needs, and the choice of procedure should be made optimally based on clinical evaluations.
CONCLUSION: Successful management of a 13-month-old child with Grade II subglottic stenosis through cricoid split laryngoplasty with costochondral rib grafting is a challenging and novel approach to treating single-stage SGS.

Citation: Siddiqui KM, et al. Single stage cricoid split laryngoplasty with costochondral rib grafting is a novel approach to treat subglottic stenosis in a paediatric patient: A case report. Single stage cricoid split laryngoplasty with costochondral rib grafting is a novel approach to treat subglottic stenosis in a paediatric patient: A case report. 2024; 121:109952. doi: 10.1016/j.ijscr.2024.109952

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38943940/
