PMID: 38947231
Title: High prevalence of obstructive sleep apnea in a surgical aortic valve replacement cohort: an observational study.

Abstract: STUDY OBJECTIVES: A high prevalence of sleep apnea has been reported among transcatheter aortic valve replacement (AVR) patients; however, the prevalence of sleep apnea in the younger and relatively healthier population of surgical AVR (SAVR) patients is unknown.
METHODS: We assessed the prevalence of sleep apnea and overall sleep quality in patients having SAVR. Participants aged 50-89 were eligible for recruitment. All participants completed type II HST before SAVR. Sleep apnea was defined as an apnea-hypopnea index (AHI) ≥ 5 events/hour. The current use of positive airway pressure was exclusionary.
RESULTS: The 46 participants (32 males/14 females) had a mean age of 66.6 years, body mass index of 30, AHI of 23.5, and obstructive AHI of 22.0. Only four participants had a prior sleep apnea diagnosis, yet all but one had sleep apnea on type II sleep testing. Two-thirds of sleep apnea was moderate or severe (AHI ≥ 15). A quarter of respiratory events were defined by arousals without desaturations. Whereas most sleep parameters resembled those of similarly aged community cohorts, mean percentage of N3 was reduced, accounting for only 3.8% of total sleep time.
CONCLUSIONS: Type II home sleep testing (HST) revealed a 97.8% prevalence of sleep apnea in this sample, most of which was undiagnosed obstructive sleep apnea. Roughly two-thirds of sleep apnea was moderate or severe. Such a high impact of obstructive sleep apnea among patients with severe aortic valve disease deserves further investigation on potential underlying mechanisms and clinical implications.

Citation: Oldham MA, et al. High prevalence of obstructive sleep apnea in a surgical aortic valve replacement cohort: an observational study. High prevalence of obstructive sleep apnea in a surgical aortic valve replacement cohort: an observational study. 2024; 5:zpae034. doi: 10.1093/sleepadvances/zpae034

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38947231/
