PMID: 38955524
Title: Assessing the Fractional Curve for Proper Management of Adult Degenerative Scoliosis.

Abstract: Adult degenerative scoliosis (ADS) is a coronal plane deformity often accompanied by sagittal plane malalignment. Surgical correction may involve the major and/or distally-located fractional curves (FCs). Correction of the FC has been increasingly recognized as key to ameliorating radicular pain localized to the FC levels. The present study aims to summarize the literature on the rationale for FC correction in ADS. Three databases were systematically reviewed to identify all primary studies reporting the rationale for correcting the FC in ADS. Articles were included if they were English full-text studies with primary data from ADS ( ≥ 18 years old) patients. Seventy-four articles were identified, of which 12 were included after full-text review. Findings suggest FC correction with long-segment fusion terminating at L5 increases the risk of distal junctional degeneration as compared to constructs instrumenting the sacrum. Additionally, circumferential fusion offers greater FC correction, lower reoperation risk, and shorter construct length. Minimally invasive surgery (MIS) techniques may offer effective radiographic correction and improve leg pain associated with foraminal stenosis on the FC concavity, though experiences are limited. Open surgery may be necessary to achieve adequate correction of severe, highly rigid deformities. Current data support major curve correction in ASD where the FC concavity and truncal shift are concordant, suggesting that the FC contributes to the patient's overall deformity. Circumferential fusion and the use of kickstand rods can improve correction and enhance the stability and durability of long constructs. Last, MIS techniques show promise for milder deformities but require further investigation.

Citation: Ransom SC, et al. Assessing the Fractional Curve for Proper Management of Adult Degenerative Scoliosis. Assessing the Fractional Curve for Proper Management of Adult Degenerative Scoliosis. 2024; 21:458-473. doi: 10.14245/ns.2347202.601

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38955524/
