PMID: 38957772
Title: Lumbar parafacetal cyst-spinal segmental instability is the cause and stabilization is the treatment: A clinical report of eight surgically-treated patients.

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: The authors report the results of "only-fixation" of the affected spinal segment without any decompression of the bones or soft tissue or manipulation of the cyst wall or contents in eight cases having lumbar parafacetal cyst (LPFC). This surgical strategy was based on the concept that LPFCs are secondary to spinal instability, has a protective or adaptive role, and is reversible following stabilization.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: During the period from January 2018 to January 2023, eight consecutive patients having LPFC were surgically treated. There were 5 males and 3 females, and their ages ranged from 48 to 72 years (average 63 years). Seven patients had a single cyst and one patient had multiple cysts. The patients presented with symptoms classically attributed to lumbar canal stenosis. Apart from the cyst-affected spinal segment, degenerative alterations were observed in adjoining spinal segments in six out of seven patients having a single cyst. All patients underwent "only fixation" of the unstable spinal segments without any kind of bone or soft-tissue resection and without any manipulation or handling of the cyst wall or contents.
RESULTS: During the follow-up period that ranged from 12 to 57 months (average 29 months), all patients improved from their symptoms. The recovery was observed in the immediate postoperative period and was lasting.
CONCLUSIONS: LPFCs are one of the several secondary alterations observed in spinal degeneration. Identification of unstable spinal segments and their fixation constitutes rational treatment of lumbar parafacetal cysts. Direct handling and resection of cysts are unnecessary.

Citation: Goel A, et al. Lumbar parafacetal cyst-spinal segmental instability is the cause and stabilization is the treatment: A clinical report of eight surgically-treated patients. Lumbar parafacetal cyst-spinal segmental instability is the cause and stabilization is the treatment: A clinical report of eight surgically-treated patients. 2024; 15:178-184. doi: 10.4103/jcvjs.jcvjs_19_24

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38957772/
