PMID: 38953630
Title: Technical Considerations for the Surgical Management of a C2 Spinal Cord Hemangioblastoma and Subjacent Cervical Spondylotic Myelopathy: A 2-Dimensional Operative Video.

Abstract: Hemangioblastomas are characterized as benign tumors of the central nervous system and are typically associated with von Hippel-Lindau disease in 20% to 30% of patients.1 Spinal hemangioblastomas are rare entities accounting for 2.1% of spinal cord tumors and are most frequently observed in the cervical spinal region.1-4 Treatment interventions include microsurgical resection and stereotactic radiosurgery.5 Understanding the granular detail of surgical management in these complex cases is necessary for optimal clinical outcomes. In this 2-dimensional operative video, we detail the technical nuances for resection of a World Health Organization Grade I hemangioblastoma in the upper cervical spine of a 51-year-old man. The lesion and severe adjacent canal stenosis resulted in extensive spinal cord compression, causing him to experience progressive myelopathic symptoms and neurological deficits. A C1-C7 laminectomy provided exposure of the hemangioblastoma and adequate decompression of the subjacent spondylotic disease. Intraoperative ultrasound was used to localize the tumor and perform a targeted durotomy. The sunburst-colored lesion was eccentric to the left side of C1-C2 and found in the epi-pial region, with pial thickening present in the surrounding area. The feeding vessels and deep draining vein were coagulated and cut. Low-power suction was used for traction/counter-traction dissection of the tumor planes. Owing to a multilevel laminectomy having been performed, hardware placement was performed from C2-T1. Adequate placement of all screws was confirmed with intraoperative 3-dimensional image acquisition. The patient provided informed consent for the operation and for sharing his clinical information, including digital media, for publication; Institutional Review Board not required per institutional policy.

Citation: Gilbert OE, et al. Technical Considerations for the Surgical Management of a C2 Spinal Cord Hemangioblastoma and Subjacent Cervical Spondylotic Myelopathy: A 2-Dimensional Operative Video. Technical Considerations for the Surgical Management of a C2 Spinal Cord Hemangioblastoma and Subjacent Cervical Spondylotic Myelopathy: A 2-Dimensional Operative Video. 2024; (unknown volume):(unknown pages). doi: 10.1227/ons.0000000000001241

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38953630/
