PMID: 38955627
Title: Cardiac output in patients with small annuli undergoing transcatheter aortic valve implantation with self-expanding versus balloon expandable valve (COPS-TAVI).

Abstract: BACKGROUND: There is limited data on cardiac output in patients with small aortic annuli undergoing trans-catheter aortic valve implantation (TAVI) according to the implanted platform of balloon-expandable (BEV) compared to self-expanding valves (SEV).
METHODS: This is a retrospective analysis of consecutive patients with severe aortic stenosis and small annuli who underwent successful TAVI. Cardiac output was measured using echocardiography within 4 weeks following TAVI. Data were recorded and analysed by an experienced operator who was not aware of the type of the implanted valve.
RESULTS: 138 patients were included in the analysis, of whom 57 % underwent TAVI with BEV. Clinical and echocardiographic characteristics were comparable between the two platforms, except for more frequent previous cardiac surgery and smaller indexed aortic valve in the BEV group. There was no relationship between computed tomography-derived aortic annulus area and cardiac output post TAVI. When compared to patients who underwent TAVI with BEV, those with SEV had larger cardiac output [mean difference - 0.50 l/min, 95 % CI (-0.99, -0.01)] and cardiac index [mean difference - 0.20 l/min/m2, 95 % CI (-0.47, 0.07)], although the latter did not reach statistical significance. Unlike patients with small body surface area, in those with large body surface area both cardiac output and cardiac index were statistically larger in patients who underwent SEV compared to BEV.
CONCLUSION: Cardiac output, as measured by echocardiography, was larger in patients with small annuli who underwent TAVI procedure with SEV compared to BEV. Such difference was more evident in patients with large body surface area.

Citation: Omari M, et al. Cardiac output in patients with small annuli undergoing transcatheter aortic valve implantation with self-expanding versus balloon expandable valve (COPS-TAVI). Cardiac output in patients with small annuli undergoing transcatheter aortic valve implantation with self-expanding versus balloon expandable valve (COPS-TAVI). 2024; (unknown volume):(unknown pages). doi: 10.1016/j.carrev.2024.06.017

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38955627/
