PMID: 38954972
Title: Aorto-uni-iliac stent grafts without crossover fem-fem bypass for treatment of abdominal aortic aneurysms: A report of two cases.

Abstract: INTRODUCTION AND IMPORTANCE: Arterial aneurysm is a serious condition caused by weakened arterial walls. Aorto-uni-iliac (AUI) and femorofemoral bypass are safe and effective options for managing abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA). However, fem-fem bypass leads to longer surgical procedures and introduces additional risks such as graft infection, occlusion, wound complications, and peripheral vascular problems. This report highlights two successful cases of AAA management using the AUI approach without the need for fem-fem bypass.
CASE PRESENTATION: Two male patients, both aged about 70, presented at our medical facility complaining of abdominal pain. Investigations unveiled an approximately 10-cm AAA that was previously undetected. Subsequently, we performed an elective AUI procedure without fem-fem bypass, marking the first instance of this technique being employed in Iran successfully.
CLINICAL DISCUSSION: The placement of an AUI stent graft is generally less technically demanding compared to that of a standard bifurcated graft, especially when anatomical constraints are severe, making the latter difficult or even impossible to deploy. Beside the longer duration of stent deployment, sometimes we encounter contralateral complications to cannulate the main body. The AUI is typically used in emergency situations or when the distal aorta's internal diameter is small. The femoral-femoral bypass is advised in nearly all circumstances.
CONCLUSION: AUI stent grafts are still a viable option for treatments of AAA, especially in cases of severe aortoiliac occlusive disease or comorbidities. AUI without crossover bypass is a viable option in the patients who have stenosis of contralateral iliac artery.

Citation: Salimi J, et al. Aorto-uni-iliac stent grafts without crossover fem-fem bypass for treatment of abdominal aortic aneurysms: A report of two cases. Aorto-uni-iliac stent grafts without crossover fem-fem bypass for treatment of abdominal aortic aneurysms: A report of two cases. 2024; 121:109918. doi: 10.1016/j.ijscr.2024.109918

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38954972/
