PMID: 38951032
Title: Optimal Endovascular Therapy Technique for Isolated Intracranial Atherothrombotic Stroke-Related Large-Vessel Occlusion in the Acute-to-Subacute Stage.

Abstract: BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: Reocclusion after treatment is a concern in endovascular therapy for isolated intracranial atherothrombotic stroke-related large-vessel occlusion (AT-LVO). However, the optimal endovascular therapy technique for AT-LVO has not yet been investigated. This study evaluated the optimal endovascular therapy technique for AT-LVO in a real-world setting.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: We conducted a historical, multicenter registry study at 51 centers that enrolled patients with AT-LVO. We divided the patients into 3 groups based on the endovascular therapy technique: mechanical thrombectomy alone, percutaneous transluminal angioplasty (PTA), and stent deployment. Mechanical thrombectomy alone was classified into the mechanical thrombectomy-only group; PTA and mechanical thrombectomy-PTA, into the PTA group; and mechanical thrombectomy-stent deployment, mechanical thrombectomy-PTA-stent deployment, PTA-stent deployment, and stent deployment-only into the stent group. The primary outcome was incidence of reocclusion of the treated vessels within 90 days of endovascular therapy completion.
RESULTS: We enrolled 770 patients and analyzed 509 patients. The rates in the mechanical thrombectomy-only, PTA, and stent deployment groups were 40.7%, 44.4%, and 14.9%, respectively. Incidence rate of residual stenosis &gt;70% of final angiography was significantly higher in the mechanical thrombectomy-only group than in the PTA and stent deployment groups (mechanical thrombectomy-only versus PTA versus stent deployment: 34.5% versus 26.3% versus 13.2%, P = .002). Reocclusion rate was significantly lower in the PTA group than in the mechanical thrombectomy-only group (adjusted hazard ratio, 0.48; 95% CI, 0.29-0.80). Of the patients, 83.5% experienced reocclusion within 10 days after endovascular therapy. Alarmingly, a substantial subset (approximately 62.0%) of patients experienced reocclusion within 2 days of endovascular therapy. Incidence of mRS scores of 0-2 ninety days after endovascular therapy was not significantly different among the 3 groups. Incidences of symptomatic intracranial hemorrhage, any other intracranial hemorrhage, and death were not significantly different.
CONCLUSIONS: Incidence rate of reocclusion was significantly lower in the PTA group than in the mechanical thrombectomy-only group. We found no meaningful difference in reocclusion rates between the stent deployment and mechanical thrombectomy-only groups. In Japan, glycoprotein IIb/IIIa inhibitors are not reimbursed. Therefore, PTA might be the preferred choice for AT-LVOs due to the higher reocclusion risk with mechanical thrombectomy-only. Reocclusion was likely to occur within 10 days, particularly within 2 days post-endovascular therapy.

Citation: Beppu M, et al. Optimal Endovascular Therapy Technique for Isolated Intracranial Atherothrombotic Stroke-Related Large-Vessel Occlusion in the Acute-to-Subacute Stage. Optimal Endovascular Therapy Technique for Isolated Intracranial Atherothrombotic Stroke-Related Large-Vessel Occlusion in the Acute-to-Subacute Stage. 2024; 45:1692-1700. doi: 10.3174/ajnr.A8399

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38951032/
