PMID: 38957755
Title: Full endoscopic percutaneous stenoscopic lumbar decompression and discectomy: An outcome and efficacy analysis on 606 lumbar stenosis patients.

Abstract: INTRODUCTION: Laminectomy has long been a "gold standard" to treat symptomatic lumbar spinal stenosis (LSS). Minimal invasive spine surgery (MISS) is widely developed to overcome the limitations of conventional laminectomy to achieve a better outcome with minimal complications. Full endoscopic percutaneous stenoscopic lumbar decompression (FE-PSLD) is the newest MISS technique for spinal canal decompression. We aimed to evaluate and analyze the significance of FE-PSLD in reducing pain and its association with age, duration of symptoms, stenosis level, and operative time (OT).
MATERIALS AND METHODS: A longitudinal cross-sectional study was conducted on 606 LSS patients who underwent FE-PSLD and enrolled from 2020 to 2022. Three-month evaluation of the Visual Analog Scale (VAS) and the modified MacNab criteria were assessed. The significance of changes was analyzed using the Wilcoxon signed-ranks test. Spearman's correlation test was performed to evaluate the significant correlation of several variables (pre-PSLD-VAS, age, symptoms duration, OT, and level of LSS) to post-PSLD-VAS, and multiple regression analysis was conducted.
RESULTS: The reduction of VAS was statistically significant (P ≤ 0.005) with an average pre-PSLD-VAS of 6.75 ± 0.63 and post-PSLD-VAS of 2.24 ± 1.04. Pre-PSLD-VAS, age, and stenosis level have a statistically significant correlation with post-PSLD-VAS, while the duration of the symptoms and OT have an insignificant correlation. Multiple regression showed the effect of pre-PSLD-VAS (β =0.4033, P = 0.000) and stenosis level (β =0.0951, P = 0.021) are statistically significant with a positive coefficient.
CONCLUSIONS: FE-PSLD is an efficacious strategy with favorable outcomes for managing LSS, shown by a significant reduction of pain level with a relatively short follow-up time after the procedure. Preoperative pain level, age, and stenosis level are significantly correlated with postoperative pain level. Based on this experimental study, PSLD can be considered a good strategy for treating lumbar canal stenosis in all age groups and all LSS levels.

Citation: Victorio, et al. Full endoscopic percutaneous stenoscopic lumbar decompression and discectomy: An outcome and efficacy analysis on 606 lumbar stenosis patients. Full endoscopic percutaneous stenoscopic lumbar decompression and discectomy: An outcome and efficacy analysis on 606 lumbar stenosis patients. 2024; 15:247-253. doi: 10.4103/jcvjs.jcvjs_48_24

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38957755/
