PMID: 38958338
Title: Dynamic computed tomography angiography for noninvasive diagnosis of bow Hunter's syndrome: a case report.

Abstract: The focus of this case report is to technically describe a noninvasive diagnostic evaluation of bow Hunter's syndrome using a dynamic computed tomography angiography protocol and discuss its advantages. In addition, we aimed to exemplify the quality of the study by presenting images of a 3D-printed model generated to help plan the surgical treatment for the patient. The dynamic computed tomography angiography protocol consisted of a first image acquisition with the patient in the anatomic position of the head and neck. This was followed by a second acquisition with the head and neck rotated to the side that triggered the symptoms, with technical parameters similar to the first acquisition. The acquired images were used to print a 3D model to better depict the findings for the surgical team. The dynamic computed tomography angiography protocol developed in this study helped visualize the vertebrobasilar arterial anatomy, detect vertebral artery stenosis produced by head and neck rotation, depict the structure responsible for artery stenosis (e.g., bony structure or membranes), and study possible complications of the disease (e.g., posterior cerebral circulation infarction). Additionally, the 3D-printed model better illustrated the findings of stenosis, aiding in surgical planning. In conclusion, dynamic computed tomography angiography for the evaluation of bow Hunter's syndrome is a feasible noninvasive technique that can be used as an alternative to traditional diagnostic methods.

Citation: Torre GS, et al. Dynamic computed tomography angiography for noninvasive diagnosis of bow Hunter's syndrome: a case report. Dynamic computed tomography angiography for noninvasive diagnosis of bow Hunter's syndrome: a case report. 2024; 22:eRC0582. doi: 10.31744/einstein_journal/2024RC0582

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38958338/
