PMID: 38960945
Title: Assessing the diagnostic value of left ventricular synchrony indices derived from phase analysis by D-SPECT in identifying obstructive coronary artery disease.

Abstract: This study aimed to assess the diagnostic efficacy of left ventricular synchrony (LVS) for detecting coronary artery disease (CAD). We explored whether the LVS index derived from phase analysis of D-SPECT provides superior diagnostic value compared to conventional perfusion analysis in identifying obstructive CAD. Patients with suspected or confirmed CAD underwent drug-stress/rest gated D-SPECT myocardial perfusion imaging (MPI) and coronary angiography (CAG). A 50% stenosis was set as the threshold for obstructive CAD. 110 participants were enrolled in this analysis. There were significant differences in phase standard deviation (PSD), phase histogram bandwidth (PHB) and entropy among the four groups. Patients without cardiac disease and those with mild-moderate stenosis exhibited no noticeable contraction asynchrony. However, LVS indices demonstrated a gradual increase with the progression of coronary stenosis when compared to NC (P < 0.001). Obstructive CAD was identified in 43 out of 110 participants (39%). Optimal cutoff values for diagnosing obstructive CAD during stress were determined as 7.6° for PSD, 24° for PHB, and 37% for entropy, respectively. Notably, PSD, PHB, and entropy indices exhibited higher sensitivity compared to MPI. The integration of the stress-induced LVS indices into routine MPI analysis resulted in a significantly greater area under the curve (AUC), leading to improved diagnostic performance and enhanced differential capacity. Stress-induced LVS indices increase with the severity of coronary artery stenosis by D-SPECT phase analysis. Further, the indices-derived phase analysis exhibits superior sensitivity and discriminatory ability compared to MPI in detecting obstructive CAD.

Citation: Ding X, et al. Assessing the diagnostic value of left ventricular synchrony indices derived from phase analysis by D-SPECT in identifying obstructive coronary artery disease. Assessing the diagnostic value of left ventricular synchrony indices derived from phase analysis by D-SPECT in identifying obstructive coronary artery disease. 2024; 40:1919-1930. doi: 10.1007/s10554-024-03182-z

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38960945/
