PMID: 38968808
Title: Application of fluorescein sodium videoangiography in aneurysm surgery.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: The use of fluorescent technologies in vascular neurosurgery emerged after indocyanine green video angiography (ICG-VA) was first described in 2003. As data supporting the efficiency of ICG in preventing postoperative complications has grown substantially, it has now established itself as the standard of care. However, the predominant literature centers on ICG techniques, leaving the evaluation of cost-effective fluorescein tools pending. We report the results of a prospective study in which we demonstrated the impact of intraoperative fluorescein videoangiography (FL-VA) in aneurysm surgery.
METHODS: Between December 2021 and September 2022, a total of 57 patients underwent craniotomy for intracranial aneurysm surgery. After aneurysm clipping, we administered a 0.5 mg/Kg of sodium fluorescein, and the intracranial area of interest was inspected through the microscope integrated module. The following data were collected: patient age and sex; number of clipped aneurysms; aneurysm location, size, and rupture status; Hunt Hess grade; intraoperative rupture; aneurysm calcification and thrombosed aneurysm; visualization of blood flow in perforating arteries; need for a clip adjustment after FL-VA analysis by neurosurgeon.
RESULTS: For the surgical clipping of 64 aneurysms in 57 patients, 80 FL-VA studies were performed. Clip adjustments were performed following FL-VA in 13 aneurysms. FL-VA had an impact on 20 % of the clipping. In seven aneurysms, clip adjustment was due to the "presence of residual aneurysm", in three cases due to the "presence of neck", and in three cases due to "adjacent vessel stenosis". Regarding the evaluation of flow in the perforating vessels, it was possible, with a good and detailed image in all cases.
CONCLUSION: The use of FL-VA has a significant impact in aneurysm surgery, enhancing effectiveness and safety. The dosage of 0.5 mg/kg administered is sufficient for assessing both aneurysm occlusion and the presence of flow in adjacent vessels.

Citation: Dellaretti M, et al. Application of fluorescein sodium videoangiography in aneurysm surgery. Application of fluorescein sodium videoangiography in aneurysm surgery. 2024; 126:228-233. doi: 10.1016/j.jocn.2024.06.027

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38968808/
