PMID: 38966597
Title: Angina pectoris? Fake news: a case report of infective endocarditis with giant aortic root abscess detected by cardiac magnetic resonance imaging.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Infective endocarditis (IE) is a rare disease associated with high mortality rates. Clinical presentation is highly variable with a time interval between first onset of symptoms and diagnosis > 1 month in 25% of patients. We present a case of aortic valve endocarditis with aortic root abscess (ARA) with chest pain and ischaemic changes on the electrocardiogram (ECG).
CASE SUMMARY: A 59-year-old Caucasian male with a known bicuspid aortic valve presented at our emergency department with a 2-week history of malaise, subfebrile temperatures, and chest pain episodes. The ECG exhibited ischaemic changes, and laboratory workup showed elevated inflammatory markers and troponin levels. Coronary angiography revealed a one-vessel coronary artery disease with a borderline significant stenosis of the left circumflex artery. Cardiac magnetic resonance imaging showed a large aortic valve vegetation with an ARA expanding intramyocardially, which was not seen on bedside echocardiography. The patient was set on intravenous (i.v.) antibiotics and urgently referred for surgery. The patient received surgical aortic root and valve replacements, reconstruction of the anterior mitral leaflet, and a venous bypass. After successful surgical management followed by 6 weeks of i.v. antibiotics, the patient completely recovered.
DISCUSSION: Diagnosing IE in atypical cases, such as those with ischaemic ECG changes, remains challenging. Infective endocarditis should be considered as an early differential diagnosis in individuals with prosthetic or native valve disease. Infective endocarditis poses a significant risk for perivalvular and ARA formation with high mortality. Aortic root abscess may present with unspecific symptoms or unusual ECG changes and might be missed in standard transthoracic echocardiography in up to 30% of cases. Multimodal imaging can help in establishing a prompt and accurate diagnosis, aid in timely treatment and mitigating the risk of complications of IE.

Citation: Wissel S, et al. Angina pectoris? Fake news: a case report of infective endocarditis with giant aortic root abscess detected by cardiac magnetic resonance imaging. Angina pectoris? Fake news: a case report of infective endocarditis with giant aortic root abscess detected by cardiac magnetic resonance imaging. 2024; 8:ytae297. doi: 10.1093/ehjcr/ytae297

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38966597/
