PMID: 38961337
Title: Mediastinal hematoma after trans-radial cerebral angiography: a case report.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Trans-radial (TRA) access has become increasingly prevalent in neurointervention. Nonetheless, mediastinal hematoma after TRA is an infrequent yet grave complication associated with a notably elevated mortality rate. While our review found no reported mediastinal hematoma cases managed conservatively within neuro-interventional literature, similar complications are documented in cardiac and vascular interventional radiology, indicating its potential occurrence across disciplines.
CASE PRESENTATION: Carotid computed tomography angiography (CTA) showed calcified plaques with stenosis (Left: Severe, Right: Moderate) in the bilateral internal carotid arteries (ICAs) of an 81-year-old male presented with paroxysmal weakness in the right upper limb. Dual antiplatelet therapy with aspirin and clopidogrel was administered. On day 7, DSA of the bilateral ICAs was performed via TRA. Post-DSA, the patient experienced transient loss of consciousness, chest tightness, and other symptoms without ECG or MRI abnormalities. Hemoglobin level decreased from 110 g/L to 92 g/L. Iodinated contrast-induced laryngeal edema was suspected, and the patient was treated with intravenous methylprednisolone. Neck CT indicated a possible mediastinal hemorrhage, which chest CTA confirmed. The patient's treatment plan involved discontinuing antiplatelet medication as a precautionary measure against the potential occurrence of an ischemic stroke instead of the utilization of a covered stent graft and surgical intervention. Serial CTs revealed hematoma absorption. Discharge CT showed a reduced hematoma volume of 35 × 45 mm.
CONCLUSIONS: This case underscores the need for timely identification and precise manipulation of guidewires and guide-catheters through trans-radial access. The critical components of successful neuro-interventional techniques include timely examination, rapid identification, proper therapy, and diligent monitoring.

Citation: Ma P, et al. Mediastinal hematoma after trans-radial cerebral angiography: a case report. Mediastinal hematoma after trans-radial cerebral angiography: a case report. 2024; 24:231. doi: 10.1186/s12883-024-03714-z

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38961337/
