PMID: 38960590
Title: Therapeutic effect of epidural dexamethasone palmitate in a rat model of lumbar spinal stenosis.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Dexamethasone palmitate (DEP), a prodrug of dexamethasone (DEX), is a synthetic corticosteroid medication distinguished by the inclusion of a fatty acid component known as palmitate. This study introduces DEP as a novel therapeutic option for spinal epidural injection, aiming to provide safer and longer-lasting pain relief as an alternative to for patients with spinal stenosis.
METHODS: 40 rats were randomly divided into four groups: those receiving epidural administration of normal saline (NS), and DEP in the lumbar spinal stenosis (LSS) model, and non-model rats receiving epidural NS administration. Paw withdrawal thresholds to mechanical stimulation and motor function (neurogenic intermittent claudication) were observed for up to 21 days. Hematology and blood chemistry analyses were performed 1 week after drug therapy. Tissue samples were collected for steroid pathology examination to evaluate adhesion degree, perineural area inflammation, and chromatolysis in the dorsal root ganglion (DRG), and adrenal gland.
RESULTS: The DEX and DEP groups demonstrated significant recovery from mechanical allodynia and motor dysfunction after 2 weeks of drug therapy (p<0.001). However, by the third week, the effect of DEX started to diminish while the effect of DEP persisted. Furthermore, the DEP group exhibited reduced fibrosis and less chromatolysis than the NS group. No steroid overdose or toxin was observed in any group.
CONCLUSION: The epidural administration of DEP demonstrated therapeutic efficacy in reducing allodynia and hyperalgesia resulting from chronic DRG compression, thus offering prolonged pain relief. These findings underscore the potential of DEP as a promising treatment alternative for pain associated with LSS, serving as a viable substitute for .

Citation: Li MH, et al. Therapeutic effect of epidural dexamethasone palmitate in a rat model of lumbar spinal stenosis. Therapeutic effect of epidural dexamethasone palmitate in a rat model of lumbar spinal stenosis. 2024; (unknown volume):(unknown pages). doi: 10.1136/rapm-2024-105530

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38960590/
