PMID: 38974407
Title: The benefit of tissue sealant on urethroplasty in hypospadias patients - A systematic review and meta-analysis.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Hypospadias was ranked second after undescended testis as the most prevalent congenital abnormality in newborn males. Hypospadias can be successfully repaired through multiple surgeries in the majority of children. Postoperative complications were not rarely seen after surgeries, such as urethrocutaneous fistula (UCF), meatal stenosis, and glans breakdown. Tissue sealant application in hypospadias repair serves as additional suture line coverage and reduces the post surgery complications. However, the effects of sealants usage during urethroplasty are still uncertain. This review aimed to know the effects of tissue sealant usage on patients with hypospadias who undergo urethroplasty.
METHODS: The study was reported based on the Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic Reviews and Meta-Analysis (PRISMA) guidelines. Literature was searched on PubMed, Embase, and Scopus following PRISMA guidelines. The search was conducted on October 12th, 2021, using the search term ("glue" OR "sealants" OR "tissue glue" OR "tissue sealant" OR "tissue adhesive") AND ("hypospadias" OR "urethrocutaneous fistula" OR "urethral repair" OR "urethroplasty" OR "hypospadiology").
RESULT: Systematic searching from all databases resulted in 160 potential articles. After a full-text review, eight articles were included in this study. Urethrocytaneous fistula complication was reported in all studies. The occurrence of complication reported by all studies was urethrocutaneous fistula. Several studies also reported tissue edema and flap-related complications. Tissue sealant had no significant effect in reducing meatal stenosis.
CONCLUSIONS: This systematic review revealed additional benefits from several types of tissue sealant in hypospadias repair surgery. Fibrin sealant application over the urethroplasty suture line in hypospadias repair offers a water-proof coverage and may enhance the outcome from the surgery.

Citation: Siregar S, et al. The benefit of tissue sealant on urethroplasty in hypospadias patients - A systematic review and meta-analysis. The benefit of tissue sealant on urethroplasty in hypospadias patients - A systematic review and meta-analysis. 2022; 11:184. doi: 10.12688/f1000research.108503.2

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38974407/
