PMID: 38974484
Title: Updates in current concepts in degenerative cervical myelopathy: a systematic review.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: The incidence of degenerative cervical myelopathy (DCM) has increased over the years due to an increasing aging population, yet there is a dearth of recent comprehensive data evaluating the multiple facets of this degenerative condition. Recent publications have highlighted the biochemistry and biomechanics of DCM, which are paramount to understanding the degenerative nature of the condition and selecting the most optimal treatment options for improved patient outcomes. In addition, there have been recent studies establishing the superiority of surgical to non-surgical treatments for DCM, which until now was a poorly substantiated claim that has permeated the medical field for decades. The authors of this systematic review sought to collect and assess available high quality peer reviewed data to analyze the nature of DCM and gain a better understanding for its treatment choices.
METHODS: PubMed and Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials were systematically searched on January 19, 2023 with date restrictions of 2015-2023 imposed. For initial data collection, five independent searches were completed using the following keywords: pathogenesis, pathophysiology, and epidemiology of DCM; cervical spondylotic myelopathy (CSM) and DCM recent developments; management and treatment for CSM and DCM; diagnosis and management of DCM; and pathophysiology of DCM. The results were screened for their application to DCM; any study that did not directly address DCM were identified and removed through abstract assessment, such studies included those pertaining to alternative fields including cardiology and psychiatry. Studies found relevant through full-text assessment and those published in English were included in this study and unpublished studies and studies found irrelevant based on titles and keywords were excluded from this study. The 115 articles that met criteria were critically appraised independently by the 2 reviewers and the principles of Grading of Recommendations, Assessment, Development, and Evaluations (GRADE) were applied to assess the quality of evidence from each study.
RESULTS: A total of 352 studies resulted from the original search. There were 71 duplicate articles that were removed and a total of 281 articles were screened. 166 articles were then removed based on the exclusion/inclusion criteria, title, and abstract. Of the 138 articles that remained, a final list of 115 articles was created based on the reporting measures.
CONCLUSIONS: DCM is a multifactorial disease that has the potential to impair neurological function and cause significant paralysis. Although the multiple facets of this disease have not been fully elucidated, there have been significant breakthroughs in understanding the mechanisms involved in this disease process. The use of complex imaging modalities, genetic sequencing, biomarkers, and pharmacological agents has provided insight into the factors involved in the progression of DCM, which has consequently cultivated more refined approaches for diagnosis and treatment of DCM.

Citation: Thompson K, et al. Updates in current concepts in degenerative cervical myelopathy: a systematic review. Updates in current concepts in degenerative cervical myelopathy: a systematic review. 2024; 10:313-326. doi: 10.21037/jss-23-123

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38974484/
