PMID: 38977434
Title: Self-expanding intracranial drug-eluting stent system in patients with symptomatic intracranial atherosclerotic stenosis: initial experience and midterm angiographic follow-up.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Symptomatic intracranial atherosclerotic stenosis (ICAS) is a major cause of ischemic stroke worldwide. In patients undergoing endovascular treatment for ICAS, in-stent restenosis (ISR) is associated with ischemic stroke recurrence.
OBJECTIVE: Intracranial drug-eluting self-expanding stent systems (COMETIU; Sinomed Neurovita Technology Inc., CHN) are new devices for treating ICAS. This study evaluated the perioperative experience and medium-term outcomes of COMETIU in 16 patients.
METHODS: We prospectively analyzed 16 patients with ICAS (≥ 70% stenosis) who underwent intravascular therapy between September 4, 2022, and February 1, 2023. The primary outcome was the incidence of ISR at 6 months postoperatively. The secondary efficacy outcomes were device and technical success rates. The secondary safety outcomes included stroke or death within 30 days after the procedure and the cumulative annual rate of recurrent ischemic stroke in the target-vessel territory from 31 days to 6 months and 1 year.
RESULTS: A total of 16 patients with 16 intracranial atherosclerotic lesions were treated with 16 COMETIUs. All procedures were performed under general anesthesia with 100% device and technical success rates, with no cases of periprocedural stroke or death. The mean radiographic follow-up duration was at least 6 months postoperatively, and all patients presented for radiographic and clinical follow-up. There were no reported ischemic or hemorrhagic strokes. Angiographic follow-up for all patients revealed no cases of ISR.
CONCLUSION: COMETIU is safe and effective for treating ICAS, with minimal risk during the procedure and a low rate of ISR during medium-term follow-up.

Citation: Zhang F, et al. Self-expanding intracranial drug-eluting stent system in patients with symptomatic intracranial atherosclerotic stenosis: initial experience and midterm angiographic follow-up. Self-expanding intracranial drug-eluting stent system in patients with symptomatic intracranial atherosclerotic stenosis: initial experience and midterm angiographic follow-up. 2024; 66:2015-2022. doi: 10.1007/s00234-024-03423-x

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38977434/
