PMID: 38971903
Title: Combined conventional factors and the radiomics signature of coronary plaque texture could improve cardiac risk prediction.

Abstract: OBJECTIVES: This study aims to investigate how radiomics analysis can help understand the association between plaque texture, epicardial adipose tissue (EAT), and cardiovascular risk. Working with a Photon-counting CT, which exhibits enhanced feature stability, offers the potential to advance radiomics analysis and enable its integration into clinical routines.
METHODS: Coronary plaques were manually segmented in this retrospective, single-centre study and radiomic features were extracted using pyradiomics. The study population was divided into groups according to the presence of high-risk plaques (HRP), plaques with at least 50% stenosis, plaques with at least 70% stenosis, or triple-vessel disease. A combined group with patients exhibiting at least one of these risk factors was formed. Random forest feature selection identified differentiating features for the groups. EAT thickness and density were measured and compared with feature selection results.
RESULTS: A total number of 306 plaques from 61 patients (mean age 61 years +/- 8.85 [standard deviation], 13 female) were analysed. Plaques of patients with HRP features or relevant stenosis demonstrated a higher presence of texture heterogeneity through various radiomics features compared to patients with only an intermediate stenosis degree. While EAT thickness did not significantly differ, affected patients showed significantly higher mean densities in the 50%, HRP, and combined groups, and insignificantly higher densities in the 70% and triple-vessel groups.
CONCLUSION: The combination of a higher EAT density and a more heterogeneous plaque texture might offer an additional tool in identifying patients with an elevated risk of cardiovascular events.
CLINICAL RELEVANCE STATEMENT: Cardiovascular disease is the leading cause of mortality globally. Plaque composition and changes in the EAT are connected to cardiac risk. A better understanding of the interrelation of these risk indicators can lead to improved cardiac risk prediction.
KEY POINTS: Cardiac plaque composition and changes in the EAT are connected to cardiac risk. Higher EAT density and more heterogeneous plaque texture are related to traditional risk indicators. Radiomics texture analysis conducted on PCCT scans can help identify patients with elevated cardiac risk.

Citation: Kahmann J, et al. Combined conventional factors and the radiomics signature of coronary plaque texture could improve cardiac risk prediction. Combined conventional factors and the radiomics signature of coronary plaque texture could improve cardiac risk prediction. 2024; 15:170. doi: 10.1186/s13244-024-01759-9

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38971903/
