PMID: 38976136
Title: Evaluation of Cardiovascular Risk in People with Type 1 Diabetes: A Comprehensive and Specific Proposed Practical Approach.

Abstract: People living with type 1 diabetes (T1D) have an increased risk of cardiovascular disease (CVD), and it is the leading cause of morbidity and mortality in this population. CVD risk increases with each uncontrolled risk factor, even in individuals with good glycaemic control. Recommendations for assessing CVD risk in the T1D population are extended from those for type 2 diabetes (T2D) even though the physiopathology and underlying mechanisms of atherosclerosis in T1D are poorly understood and differ from those in T2D. Unlike the assessment of microvascular complications, which is well established in T1D, this is far from being the case for the comorbidities and risk associated with CVD. Aside from classical cardiovascular comorbidities, carotid ultrasound can be useful to stratify CVD risk. The utilization of specific risk scales such as the Steno Type 1 Risk Engine can help to more accurately classify cardiovascular risk in these individuals. The cornerstones of the management of cardiovascular risk in T1D are the promotion of the Mediterranean diet, tight glycaemic control (glycated haemoglobin (HbA1c) < 7%), blood pressure < 130/80 mmHg in most patients, and low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol < 100 mg/dL in moderate-risk individuals, < 70 mg/dL in high-risk individuals, and < 55 mg/dL in very high-risk individuals. Conventional medical follow-up of patients with T1D should be individualized (approximately 2-3 visits per year), and a carotid ultrasound evaluation is recommended every 5 years in the absence of significant preclinical atherosclerosis or more often in those with severe preclinical atherosclerosis. Antithrombotic therapy is recommended in those receiving secondary prevention, those with stenosis > 50% in any arterial bed, and those with an impaired ankle-brachial index. This document is a proposal of a practical approach for the evaluation, classification, and management of CVD risk in individuals living with T1D.

Citation: Viñals C, et al. Evaluation of Cardiovascular Risk in People with Type 1 Diabetes: A Comprehensive and Specific Proposed Practical Approach. Evaluation of Cardiovascular Risk in People with Type 1 Diabetes: A Comprehensive and Specific Proposed Practical Approach. 2024; 15:1831-1844. doi: 10.1007/s13300-024-01616-4

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38976136/
