PMID: 38972397
Title: Stomal Stenosis After Continent Urinary Diversion in Bladder Exstrophy: Risk Factors and Management.

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: To identify risk factors for stenosis and compare management strategies for stenosis etiology and to examine the efficacy of each approach. Patients with classic bladder exstrophy (CBE), a rare genitourinary malformation, may require construction of a continent urinary stoma (CUS) if incontinence persists. Stomal stenosis is a challenging complication as it is common, progressive, and recurrent.
METHODS: CBE patients who underwent CUS were retrospectively reviewed for risk factors for stenosis including stoma type, prior midline laparotomy number, and umbilicoplasty suture material. Stenosis etiology and management strategies were further reviewed.
RESULTS: A total of 260 CBE patients underwent CUS creation. Stenosis developed in 65 patients (25.0%) at a median interval of 1.9 years. Etiology included scar contracture (n = 41), keloid (n = 17), and hypertrophic scar (n = 7). Multifilament suture was the only variable associated with an increased risk of stenosis compared to monofilament suture (P = .009). Almost all patients required surgical intervention. Most scar contractures underwent stomal incision with success in 100%. Hypertrophic scars and keloids responded best to excision with local tissue rearrangement (66.7%). At last follow-up, all patients achieved success.
CONCLUSION: Stomal stenosis is common and challenging for the reconstructive surgeon. Strategies to prevent and effectively manage this are greatly desired. Use of multifilament suture for the umbilicoplasty increased stenosis perhaps from a greater inflammatory response and scarring, while monofilament suture may reduce its incidence. Stomal incision for treating scar contractures, and excision with local tissue rearrangement for hypertrophic scars and keloids may improve successful primary surgical intervention.

Citation: Harris TGW, et al. Stomal Stenosis After Continent Urinary Diversion in Bladder Exstrophy: Risk Factors and Management. Stomal Stenosis After Continent Urinary Diversion in Bladder Exstrophy: Risk Factors and Management. 2024; 191:110-118. doi: 10.1016/j.urology.2024.07.003

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38972397/
