PMID: 38976922
Title: Endoscopic endonasal optic nerve decompression in children younger than 2 years old with congenital optic canal stenosis: illustrative cases.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Congenital optic canal stenosis causing compressive optic neuropathy is a rare disorder that presents unique diagnostic and treatment challenges. Endoscopic endonasal optic nerve decompression (EOND) has been described for optic nerve compression in adults and adolescents but has never been reported for young children without pneumatized sphenoid sinuses. The authors describe preoperative and intraoperative considerations for three patients younger than 2 years of age with congenital optic canal stenosis due to genetically confirmed osteopetrosis or chondrodysplasia.
OBSERVATIONS: Serial ophthalmological examinations, with a particular focus on object tracking ability, fundoscopic examination, and visual evoked potential trends in preverbal children, are important for detecting progressive optic neuropathy. The lack of pneumatization of the sphenoid sinus presents unique challenges and requires the surgical creation of a sphenoid sinus with the use of neuronavigation to determine the limits of bony exposure given the lack of easily identifiable anatomical landmarks such as the opticocarotid recess. There were no perioperative complications.
LESSONS: EOND for congenital optic canal stenosis is safe and technically feasible even given the lack of pneumatization of the sphenoid sinus in young patients. The key operative step is surgically creating the sphenoid sinus through careful bony removal with the aid of neuronavigation. https://thejns.org/doi/10.3171/CASE23559.

Citation: Yang PH, et al. Endoscopic endonasal optic nerve decompression in children younger than 2 years old with congenital optic canal stenosis: illustrative cases. Endoscopic endonasal optic nerve decompression in children younger than 2 years old with congenital optic canal stenosis: illustrative cases. 2024; 8:(unknown pages). doi: 10.3171/CASE23559

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38976922/
