PMID: 38972388
Title: Intracranial hypertension secondary to unruptured pial arteriovenous malformation. Suitability of isolated endovascular treatment with ethylene vinyl alcohol/dimethyl sulfoxide (Onyx®). Case report and literature review.

Abstract: A 36-year-old male presented to the Emergency Department with clinical symptoms of blurred vision of progressive onset of two years of evolution. The ophthalmological examination revealed the existence of bilateral papilledema. Using cranial computed tomography and magnetic resonance imaging, the presence of a right occipital pial arteriovenous malformation was certified. Arteriographically, pial arterial contributions dependent on the right middle cerebral artery and the right posterior cerebral artery were identified. Venous drainage was located at the level of the superior sagittal sinus. An associated right transverse sinus stenosis was also identified. The existence of secondary intracranial hypertension was corroborated by monitoring with an intracranial pressure sensor. An interventional procedure was carried out consisting of embolization of the arterial supplies of the lesion using Onyx®. The clinical-radiological findings after the procedure were favorable: the papilledema disappeared and complete exclusion of the malformation was achieved. A new intracranial pressure measurement showed resolution of intracranial hypertension. Subsequent regulated radiological controls showed complete exclusion of the malformation up to 5 years later.

Citation: García Pérez F, et al. Intracranial hypertension secondary to unruptured pial arteriovenous malformation. Suitability of isolated endovascular treatment with ethylene vinyl alcohol/dimethyl sulfoxide (Onyx®). Case report and literature review. Intracranial hypertension secondary to unruptured pial arteriovenous malformation. Suitability of isolated endovascular treatment with ethylene vinyl alcohol/dimethyl sulfoxide (Onyx®). Case report and literature review. 2024; 35:272-280. doi: 10.1016/j.neucie.2024.07.001

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38972388/
