PMID: 38975548
Title: A Re-do Repair of Tetralogy of Fallot With an Anomalous Coronary Artery Using a Valved Conduit for the Right Ventricular Outflow Tract Reconstruction.

Abstract: Several techniques can be used for the repair of right ventricular outflow tract (RVOT) stenosis in patients with an anomalous coronary artery. Here, we report a case of conduit obstruction after re-operation following double-tract reconstruction and release of stenosis by main pulmonary artery transection and conduit replacement. The patient is a female child diagnosed with tetralogy of Fallot with an anomalous coronary artery (right coronary across right ventricle outflow) who underwent correction with a double-tract RVOT repair at the age of 10 months (weight: 8 kg). At the age of eight years (weight: 24 kg), a conduit re-implantation procedure was required because of an increase in body weight. Designing smooth conduits proved challenging due to the anomalous coronary artery and a short main pulmonary arterial trunk. RVOT stenosis was documented early postoperatively, and further intervention was deemed necessary. At 13 years of age (weight: 45 kg), the patient underwent implantation of an adult-size valved conduit. Transection of the main pulmonary artery and extensive mobilization of the bilateral pulmonary arteries were effective in creating a relative laminar blood flow. Postoperative evaluations confirmed that the conduit was well-shaped and had satisfactory valve functionality. This case highlights the potential difficulties involved with replacing an additional conduit after double-tract cardiac repair procedures, particularly due to anatomical constraints posed by a coronary artery and a short pulmonary arterial trunk. Main pulmonary artery transection and comprehensive mobilization of branch pulmonary arteries can be a solution to conduit design difficulties in RVOT reconstruction after double-tract cardiac repair procedures.

Citation: Honda Y, et al. A Re-do Repair of Tetralogy of Fallot With an Anomalous Coronary Artery Using a Valved Conduit for the Right Ventricular Outflow Tract Reconstruction. A Re-do Repair of Tetralogy of Fallot With an Anomalous Coronary Artery Using a Valved Conduit for the Right Ventricular Outflow Tract Reconstruction. 2024; 16:e61794. doi: 10.7759/cureus.61794

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38975548/
