PMID: 38970381
Title: Impact of conventional and biological disease-modifying anti-rheumatic drugs on arterial lesions in Takayasu arteritis.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: The definition of Takayasu arteritis (TAK) remission and disease activity is still unclear. Vascular imaging is an essential tool for following-up patients. Herein, we aimed to compare the evolution of vascular lesions (ie vessel wall thickening and stenosis) under conventional disease-modifying anti-rheumatic drugs (cDMARDs) relatively to biological DMARDs (bDMARDs) in TAK patients followed with the same CT angiography modalities.
METHOD: We compared 75 lines of therapy in TAK patients who received cDMARDs (n = 40 lines) and bDMARDs (n = 35 lines) using CT angiography. We established 1-3 main target vessels with vessel wall thickening and/or stenosis. Every targeted vessel had its thickness and its lumen diameter measured at the initiation of immunosuppressive treatment and at 12 months.
RESULTS: We observed an overall reduction of arterial wall thickness in 73% of cases and 31% had >25% of wall thickness relative decrease. Using a linear mixed effects model, first line immunosuppressive therapy (p= 0.012) and bDMARDs relatively to cDMARDs (p= 0.026) were independently associated with vessel wall thickness reduction in TAK. Thirty-eight percent of the stenotic vessels had a > 25% relative increase in lumen diameter under immunosuppressive therapy. The relative increase >25% in lumen diameter was noted in 56% vs 17% with bDMARDs compared with cDMARDs.
CONCLUSION: Immunosuppressive treatments can reduce arterial wall thickness and widen lumen diameter in TAK. bDMARDs seems to be more effective than cDMARDs to improve arterial lesions in TAK.

Citation: Bletry D, et al. Impact of conventional and biological disease-modifying anti-rheumatic drugs on arterial lesions in Takayasu arteritis. Impact of conventional and biological disease-modifying anti-rheumatic drugs on arterial lesions in Takayasu arteritis. 2024; (unknown volume):(unknown pages). doi: 10.1093/rheumatology/keae331

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38970381/
