PMID: 38980196
Title: Graphene oxide-loaded rapamycin coating on airway stents inhibits stent-related granulation tissue hyperplasia.

Abstract: OBJECTIVES: Our objective was to explore the safety and efficacy of a graphene oxide-loaded rapamycin-coated self-expandable metallic airway stent (GO@RAPA-SEMS) in a rabbit model.
METHODS: The dip coating method was used to develop a GO@RAPA-SEMS and a poly(lactic-co-glycolic)-acid loaded rapamycin-coated self-expandable metallic airway stent (PLGA@RAPA-SEMS). The surface structure was evaluated using a scanning electronic microscope. The in vitro drug-release profiles of the 2 stents were explored and compared. In the animal study, a total of 45 rabbits were randomly divided into 3 groups and underwent 3 kinds of stent placements. Computed tomography was performed to evaluate the degree of stenosis at 1, 2 and 3 months after the stent operation. Five rabbits in each group were sacrificed after the computed tomography scan. The stented trachea and blood were collected for further pathological analysis and laboratory testing.
RESULTS: The in vitro drug-release study revealed that GO@RAPA-SEMS exhibited a sudden release on the first day and maintained a certain release rate on the 14th day. The PLGA@RAPA-SEMS exhibited a longer sustained release time. All 45 rabbits underwent successful stent placement. Pathological results indicated that the granulation tissue thickness in the GO@RAPA-SEMS group was less than that in the PLGA@RAPA-SEMS group. The TUNEL and hypoxia-inducible factor-1α staining results support the fact that the granulation inhibition effect in the GO@RAPA-SEMS group was greater than that in the PLGA@RAPA-SEMS group.
CONCLUSIONS: GO@RAPA-SEMS effectively inhibited stent-related granulation tissue hyperplasia.

Citation: Li Z, et al. Graphene oxide-loaded rapamycin coating on airway stents inhibits stent-related granulation tissue hyperplasia. Graphene oxide-loaded rapamycin coating on airway stents inhibits stent-related granulation tissue hyperplasia. 2024; 66:(unknown pages). doi: 10.1093/ejcts/ezae270

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38980196/
