PMID: 38983794
Title: Serum anti‑KIAA0513 antibody as a common biomarker for mortal atherosclerotic and cancerous diseases.

Abstract: Numerous antibody biomarkers have been reported for cancer and atherosclerosis-related diseases. The major complications of atherosclerosis and diabetes mellitus (DM) are acute ischemic stroke (AIS), cardiovascular disease (CVD) and chronic kidney disease (CKD). Cancer development is accompanied by arterial disorders, such as angiogenesis and atherosclerosis, and DM is a risk factor for the development of certain types of cancer. Atherosclerosis-related diseases and cancers are therefore interrelated and could be detected using a common biomarker. In the present study, the initial screening using the protein array method identified KIAA0513 as an antigen recognized by serum IgG antibodies in patients with atherosclerosis. The amplified luminescent proximity homogeneous assay-linked immunosorbent assay revealed significantly higher serum antibody levels against recombinant KIAA0513 protein in patients with AIS, transient ischemic attack (TIA), DM, CVD, obstructive sleep apnea syndrome (OSAS), CKD and solid cancers, such as esophageal, gastric, colon, lung and breast cancers, compared with healthy donors. A receiver operating characteristic (ROC) analysis revealed that the highest areas under the ROC curves of anti-KIAA0513 antibodies were obtained for esophageal cancer, nephrosclerosis-type CKD and DM. Spearman's correlation analysis revealed that serum anti-KIAA0513 antibody levels were associated with maximum intima-media thickness and plaque score, which are indices of atherosclerosis and stenosis. Serum anti-KIAA0513 antibody markers appear to be useful for diagnosing AIS, TIA, DM, CVD, OSAS, CKD and solid cancers, and may reflect common arterial alterations leading to atherosclerotic and cancerous diseases.

Citation: Hiwasa T, et al. Serum anti‑KIAA0513 antibody as a common biomarker for mortal atherosclerotic and cancerous diseases. Serum anti‑KIAA0513 antibody as a common biomarker for mortal atherosclerotic and cancerous diseases. 2024; 4:45. doi: 10.3892/mi.2024.169

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38983794/
