PMID: 38982114
Title: Osteoporosis, spinal degenerative disorders, and their association with low back pain, activities of daily living, and physical performance in a general population.

Abstract: Osteoporosis, vertebral fractures, and spinal degenerative diseases are common conditions that often coexist in older adults. This study aimed to determine the factors influencing low back pain and its impact on activities of daily living (ADL) and physical performance in older individuals with multiple comorbidities. This cross-sectional study was part of a large-scale population-based cohort study in Japan, involving 1009 participants who underwent spinal magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) to assess cervical cord compression, radiographic lumbar spinal stenosis, and lumbar disc degeneration. Vertebral fractures in the thoracolumbar spine were evaluated using sagittal MRI with a semi-quantitative method. Bone mineral density was measured using dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry. Low back pain, Oswestry Disability Index (ODI), and physical performance tests, such as one-leg standing time, five times chair-stand time, maximum walking speed, and maximum step length, were assessed. Using clinical conditions as objective variables and image evaluation parameters as explanatory variables, multiple regression analysis showed that vertebral fractures were significantly associated with low back pain and ODI. Vertebral fractures and osteoporosis significantly impacted physical performance, whereas osteoporosis alone did not affect low back pain or ODI. Our findings contribute to new insights into low back pain and its impact on ADL and physical performance.

Citation: Iwata S, et al. Osteoporosis, spinal degenerative disorders, and their association with low back pain, activities of daily living, and physical performance in a general population. Osteoporosis, spinal degenerative disorders, and their association with low back pain, activities of daily living, and physical performance in a general population. 2024; 14:15860. doi: 10.1038/s41598-024-64706-0

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38982114/
