PMID: 38983330
Title: Endoscopic ultrasound-guided biliary drainage vs percutaneous transhepatic bile duct drainage in the management of malignant obstructive jaundice.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Malignant obstructive jaundice (MOJ) is a condition characterized by varying degrees of bile duct stenosis and obstruction, accompanied by the progressive development of malignant tumors, leading to high morbidity and mortality rates. Currently, the two most commonly employed methods for its management are percutaneous transhepatic bile duct drainage (PTBD) and endoscopic ultrasound-guided biliary drainage (EUS-BD). While both methods have demonstrated favorable outcomes, additional research needs to be performed to determine their relative efficacy.
AIM: To compare the therapeutic effectiveness of EUS-BD and PTBD in treating MOJ.
METHODS: This retrospective analysis, conducted between September 2015 and April 2023 at The Third Affiliated Hospital of Soochow University (The First People's Hospital of Changzhou), involved 68 patients with MOJ. The patients were divided into two groups on the basis of surgical procedure received: EUS-BD subgroup (n = 33) and PTBD subgroup (n = 35). Variables such as general data, preoperative and postoperative indices, blood routine, liver function indices, myocardial function indices, operative success rate, clinical effectiveness, and complication rate were analyzed and compared between the subgroups.
RESULTS: In the EUS-BD subgroup, hospital stay duration, bile drainage volume, effective catheter time, and clinical effectiveness rate were superior to those in the PTBD subgroup, although the differences were not statistically significant (P &gt; 0.05). The puncture time for the EUS-BD subgroup was shorter than that for the PTBD subgroup (P &lt; 0.05). Postoperative blood routine, liver function index, and myocardial function index in the EUS-BD subgroup were significantly lower than those in the PTBD subgroup (P &lt; 0.05). Additionally, the complication rate in the EUS-BD subgroup was lower than in the PTBD subgroup (P &lt; 0.05).
CONCLUSION: EUS-BD may reduce the number of punctures, improve liver and myocardial functions, alleviate traumatic stress, and decrease complication rates in MOJ treatment.

Citation: Zhu QQ, et al. Endoscopic ultrasound-guided biliary drainage vs percutaneous transhepatic bile duct drainage in the management of malignant obstructive jaundice. Endoscopic ultrasound-guided biliary drainage vs percutaneous transhepatic bile duct drainage in the management of malignant obstructive jaundice. 2024; 16:1592-1600. doi: 10.4240/wjgs.v16.i6.1592

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38983330/
