PMID: 38983397
Title: Endoscopic radial incision and cutting method for adult congenital duodenal webs: A case report.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Congenital duodenal webs are rare in adults and can lead to various symptoms such as nausea, vomiting, and postprandial fullness. The treatment for this disease is mostly surgical. Endoscopic treatment techniques have been developed and attempted for this disease. Endoscopic radial incision and cutting (RIC) techniques are reportedly very effective in benign anastomotic stricture. This case report highlights the effectiveness and safety of endoscopic RIC as a minimally invasive treatment for adult congenital duodenal webs.
CASE SUMMARY: A 23-year-old female patient with indigestion was referred to a tertiary hospital. The patient complained of postprandial fullness in the epigastric region. Previous physical examinations or blood tests indicated no abnormalities. Computed tomography revealed an eccentric broad-based delayed-enhancing mass-like lesion in the second portion of the duodenum. Endoscopy showed an enlarged gastric cavity and a significantly dilated duodenal bulb; a very small hole was observed in the distal part of the second portion, and scope passage was not possible. Gastrografin upper gastrointestinal series was performed, revealing an intraduodenal barium contrast-filled sac with a curvilinear narrow radiolucent rim, a typical "windsock" sign. Endoscopic RIC was performed on the duodenal web. The patient recovered uneventfully. Follow-up endoscopy showed a patent duodenal lumen without any residual stenosis. The patient reported complete resolution of symptoms at the 18-month follow-up.
CONCLUSION: Endoscopic RIC may be an effective treatment for congenital duodenal webs in adults.

Citation: Shin HD. Endoscopic radial incision and cutting method for adult congenital duodenal webs: A case report. Endoscopic radial incision and cutting method for adult congenital duodenal webs: A case report. 2024; 12:3622-3628. doi: 10.12998/wjcc.v12.i18.3622

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38983397/
