PMID: 38999385
Title: The Rendezvous Technique: A Minimally Invasive Non-Surgical Approach for the Management of Iatrogenic Ureteral Injuries.

Abstract: Background/Objectives: The aim of our study is to evaluate the feasibility and efficacy of the rendezvous technique for the treatment of iatrogenic ureteral injuries. Methods: From 2014 to 2019, 29 patients treated with the rendezvous technique for mono- or bilateral iatrogenic ureteral injuries were enrolled in this retrospective study. All the leaks were previously assessed by CT-urography and antegrade pyelography. Ureteral continuity was restored by performing the rendezvous technique, combining antegrade trans-nephrostomic access and a retrograde trans-cystostomic approach. A double J stent was antegradely inserted, and a nephrostomy tube was kept in place at the end of the procedure. A post-procedure CT-urography and a 30-day nephrostogram follow-up were performed. In the absence of a contrast leak, the nephrostomy tube was removed. Patient follow-up was set with CT-urography at 3, 6, and 12 months and stent substitution every 4 months. The CT-urography was performed to confirm the restored integrity of the ureter before stent removal. Results: The rendezvous technique was successful in all cases with the resolution of the ureteral leak. No major complications were observed. In all the patients, the nephrostomy tube was removed after 30 days. After performing CT-urography, the stent was removed permanently after 12 months. Only three cases showed local post-treatment stenosis treated with surgical ureteral reimplantation. Conclusions: The rendezvous technique is a safe and effective minimally invasive procedure that can be used to restore the continuity of the ureter, avoiding open surgery and providing valuable support for the management of complications after gynecological surgery.

Citation: Faiella E, et al. The Rendezvous Technique: A Minimally Invasive Non-Surgical Approach for the Management of Iatrogenic Ureteral Injuries. The Rendezvous Technique: A Minimally Invasive Non-Surgical Approach for the Management of Iatrogenic Ureteral Injuries. 2024; 13:(unknown pages). doi: 10.3390/jcm13133820

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38999385/
