PMID: 38999390
Title: Classical vs. Retrograde Endoscopic Dacryocystorhinostomy: Analyses and Comparison of the Results.

Abstract: Background: In endoscopic dacryocystorhinostomy (DCR), surgical landmarks such as the maxillary line (ML) and the axilla of the middle turbinate (MT) guide the surgeon in identifying the lacrimal sac. The primary surgical risk associated with the classical technique, which involves directly opening the lacrimal sac, is the height of the bone drilling on the projection of the lateral wall of the nasal fossa. This poses a significant risk of damaging the orbit, the floor of the frontal sinus, and the anterior skull base. Furthermore, the anatomical variability in size and location of the lacrimal sac poses a risk for difficult and precise surgical identification. Recently, a 'retrograde' technique has been introduced to safely identify and expose the lacrimal sac. The aim of this study is to compare the results of retrograde DCR (rDCR) to a classic technique (clDCR), in terms of clinical recurrence and complications. Methods: A retrospective study on a cohort of 35 patients who underwent DCR at the ENT Department of the Modena University Hospital between January 2010 and October 2022 (18 clDCR and 17 rDCR) was performed. Minimum postoperative follow-up for inclusion was 12 months. We used the Fisher's exact test to compare the two techniques, comparing functional outcomes and clinical recurrence rates. Results: Clinical recurrence of nasolacrimal stenosis in clDCR patients was 50%, compared to 6% in those who underwent rDCR (p-value 0.005). Postoperative surgical complications were not significantly different between the two groups (p &gt; 0.05). Conclusions: rDCR is a safe technique and has been shown to be a statistically more effective surgical technique than clDCR in reducing clinical recurrence rates.

Citation: Alicandri-Ciufelli M, et al. Classical vs. Retrograde Endoscopic Dacryocystorhinostomy: Analyses and Comparison of the Results. Classical vs. Retrograde Endoscopic Dacryocystorhinostomy: Analyses and Comparison of the Results. 2024; 13:(unknown pages). doi: 10.3390/jcm13133824

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38999390/
