PMID: 38996431
Title: [Balloon dilatation of subglottic stenoses, especially in granulomatosis with polyangiitis].

Abstract: INTRODUCTION: Subglottic stenoses (SGS) are constrictions in the region below the vocal folds, that can pose a life-threatening problem for those affected. The aim of this research project was to identify the patient group for which the treatment of SGS by balloon dilatation can lead to long-term success.
METHODS: 14 patients with SGS were examined (before and up to12 months after intervention) using pulmonary function tests, laryngoscopies and two questionnaires (Clinical Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease Questionnaire), (modified Medical Research Council Dyspnoea Scale) regarding the respiratory situation. Additionally, the number of necessary interventions, the degree of stenosis (according to Myer Cotton and measured in millimeters) were documented.
RESULTS: Four patients who required only one intervention with the balloon showed better pre-interventional respiratory function and a higher subjective stress level. Lung function tests and evaluation of the questionnaires showed an improvement in the respiratory situation and state of health of all 14 patients after the initial intervention. The degree of stenosis measured in millimeters shows that patients with a stenosis diameter of less than 4 mm only required one intervention. All patients who received an intervention using a 12-mm-balloon had to be treated several times.
CONCLUSIONS: Patients with a high degree of stenosis and a tendency towards greater subjective stress and less objective restriction of the respiratory function appear to have a higher probability of long-term successful treatment with the balloon. Furthermore, the choice of balloon size seems to be an additional decisive factor for the success of an intervention.

Citation: Wichmann J, et al. [Balloon dilatation of subglottic stenoses, especially in granulomatosis with polyangiitis]. [Balloon dilatation of subglottic stenoses, especially in granulomatosis with polyangiitis]. 2024; (unknown volume):(unknown pages). doi: 10.1055/a-2357-8895

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38996431/
