PMID: 38999356
Title: Patients with a Bicuspid Aortic Valve (BAV) Diagnosed with ECG-Gated Cardiac Multislice Computed Tomography-Analysis of the Reasons for Referral, Classification of Morphological Phenotypes, Co-Occurring Cardiovascular Abnormalities, and Coronary Artery Stenosis.

Abstract: Background/Objectives: The aim of this study was to analyze a group of patients with a bicuspid aortic valve (BAV) examined with ECG-gated cardiac CT (ECG-CT), focusing on the assessment of the clinical reasons for cardiac CT, cardiovascular abnormalities coexisting with their BAV, and coronary artery stenosis. Methods: A detailed statistical analysis was conducted on 700 patients with a BAV from a group of 15,670 patients examined with ECG-CT. Results: The incidence of a BAV in ECG-CT was 4.6%. The most common reason for examination was suspicion of coronary heart disease-31.1%. Cardiovascular defects most frequently associated with a BAV were a VSD (4.3%) and coarctation of the aorta (3.6%), while among coronary anomalies, they were high-take-off coronary arteries (6.4%) and paracommissural orifice of coronary arteries (4.4%). The analysis of the coronary artery calcium index showed significantly lower values for type 2 BAV compared to other valve types (p &lt; 0.001), with the lowest average age in this group of patients. Moreover, the presence of a raphe between the coronary and non-coronary cusps was associated with a higher rate of significant coronary stenosis compared to other types of BAVs (p &lt; 0.001). Conclusions: The most common reason for referral for cardiac ECG-CT in the group ≤ 40-year-olds with a BAV was the suspicion of congenital cardiovascular defects, while in the group of over 40-year-olds, it was the suspicion of coronary artery disease. The incidence of cardiovascular abnormalities co-occurring with BAV and diagnosed with ECG-CT differs among specific patient subgroups. The presence of a raphe between the coronary and non-coronary cusps appears to be a potential risk factor for significant coronary stenosis in patients with BAVs.

Citation: Machowiec P, et al. Patients with a Bicuspid Aortic Valve (BAV) Diagnosed with ECG-Gated Cardiac Multislice Computed Tomography-Analysis of the Reasons for Referral, Classification of Morphological Phenotypes, Co-Occurring Cardiovascular Abnormalities, and Coronary Artery Stenosis. Patients with a Bicuspid Aortic Valve (BAV) Diagnosed with ECG-Gated Cardiac Multislice Computed Tomography-Analysis of the Reasons for Referral, Classification of Morphological Phenotypes, Co-Occurring Cardiovascular Abnormalities, and Coronary Artery Stenosis. 2024; 13:(unknown pages). doi: 10.3390/jcm13133790

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38999356/
