PMID: 38997121
Title: Visualization of Intracranial Aneurysms Treated with Woven EndoBridge Devices using Ultrashort TE MR Imaging.

Abstract: BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: Assessing the treatment success of intracranial aneurysms treated with Woven EndoBridge (WEB) devices using MRI is important in follow-up imaging. Depicting both the device configuration as well as reperfusion is challenging due to susceptibility artifacts. We evaluated the usefulness of the contrast-enhanced 3D ultrashort TE (UTE) sequence in this setting.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: In this prospective study, 12 patients (9 women) with 15 treated aneurysms were included. These 12 patients underwent 18 MRI examinations. Follow-up UTE-MRI controls were performed on the same 3T scanner. We compared the visualization of device configuration, artifact-related virtual stenosis of the parent vessel, and the WEB occlusion scale in 3D isotropic UTE-MRI postcontrast with standard TOF-MRA with contrast-enhancement (CE) and without IV contrast as well as DSA. Two interventional neuroradiologists rated the images separately and in consensus.
RESULTS: Visualization of the WEB device position and configuration was rated superior or highly superior using the UTE sequence in 17/18 MRIs compared with TOF-MRA. Artifact-related virtual stenosis of the parent vessel was significantly lower in UTE-MRI compared with TOF and CE-TOF. Reperfusion was visible in 8/18 controls on DSA. TOF was able to grade reperfusion correctly in 16 cases; CE-TOF, in 16 cases; and UTE, in 17 cases.
CONCLUSIONS: Contrast-enhanced UTE is a novel MRI sequence that shows benefit compared with the standard sequences in noninvasive and radiation-free follow-up imaging of intracranial aneurysms treated using the WEB device.

Citation: Toth D, et al. Visualization of Intracranial Aneurysms Treated with Woven EndoBridge Devices using Ultrashort TE MR Imaging. Visualization of Intracranial Aneurysms Treated with Woven EndoBridge Devices using Ultrashort TE MR Imaging. 2024; (unknown volume):(unknown pages). doi: 10.3174/ajnr.A8401

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38997121/
