PMID: 38992405
Title: Flow shear force destabilizes carotid plaques by affecting CHOP and GRP78 proteins.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Various factors, including blood, inflammatory, infectious, and immune factors, can cause ischemic stroke. However, the primary cause is often the instability of cervical arteriosclerosis plaque. It is estimated that 18-25% of ischemic strokes are caused by the rupture of carotid plaque.1 Plaque stability is crucial in determining patient prognosis. Developing a highly accurate, non-invasive, or minimally invasive technique to assess carotid plaque stability is crucial for diagnosing and treating stroke.Previous research by our group has demonstrated that the expression levels of CHOP (C/EBP homologous protein) and GRP78 (glucose-regulated protein 78) are correlated with the stability of atherosclerotic plaques.2 OBJECT: This research assesses changes in GRP78 and CHOP expressions in human umbilical vein endothelial cells(HUVEC) following experiments within the hemodynamic influencing factors test system. Additionally, it includes conducting an empirical study on the impact of blood flow shear force on the stability of human carotid atherosclerotic plaques. The objective is to explore the implications of blood flow shear force on the stability of carotid atherosclerotic plaques.
METHOD: The hemodynamic influencing factors test bench system was configured with low (Group A, 4 dyns/cm²), medium (Group B, 8 dyns/cm²), and high shear force groups (Group C, 12 dyns/cm²). Relative expression levels of GRP78 and CHOP proteins in human umbilical vein endothelial cells were measured using Western blot analysis, and quantitative analysis of GRP78 and CHOP mRNA was conducted using RT-qPCR. Meanwhile, plaques from 60 carotid artery patients, retrieved via Carotid Endarterectomy (CEA), were classified into stable (S) and unstable (U) groups based on pathological criteria. Shear force at the carotid bifurcation was measured preoperatively using ultrasound. Western blot and RT-qPCR were used to analyze the relative expression levels of GRP78 and CHOP proteins and mRNA, respectively, in the plaque specimens from both groups.
RESULT: Expression levels of GRP78, CHOP proteins, and their mRNAs were assessed in groups A, B, and C via Western blot and RT-qPCR. Results showed that in the low-shear group, all markers were elevated in group A compared to groups B and C. Statistical analysis revealed significantly lower shear forces at the carotid bifurcation in group U compared to group S. In group U plaques, GRP78 and CHOP expressions were significantly higher in group U than in group S.
CONCLUSION: Blood flow shear forces variably affect the expression of GRP78 and CHOP proteins, as well as their mRNA levels, in vascular endothelial cells. The lower the shear force and fluid flow rate, the higher the expression of GRP78 and CHOP, potentially leading to endoplasmic reticulum stress(ERS), which may destabilize the plaque.

Citation: Chen D, et al. Flow shear force destabilizes carotid plaques by affecting CHOP and GRP78 proteins. Flow shear force destabilizes carotid plaques by affecting CHOP and GRP78 proteins. 2024; 33:107851. doi: 10.1016/j.jstrokecerebrovasdis.2024.107851

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38992405/
