PMID: 38992132
Title: The selection of a surgical strategy for the treatment of adult degenerative scoliosis with "pear-shaped" decompression under open spinal endoscopy.

Abstract: The prognoses of patients who undergo open spinal endoscopy (OSE) decompression significantly differ by scoliosis type and symptom despite the use of uniform standards and procedures for the decompression surgery. These differences may be directly related to the selection and formulation of surgical strategies but their cause remains unclear. The aim of this study was to verify and evaluate the efficacy of the "Symptom, Stenosis and Segment classification (SSS classification)" in determining an appropriate surgical strategy and to analyze the differences in the outcomes of different patients after receiving the selected surgical strategy. The results of this study ultimately provide a theoretical basis for the specific optimization of surgical strategies guided by the "SSS classification". This work was a retrospective study. We reviewed 55 patients with scoliosis and spinal stenosis who underwent "pear-shaped" decompression under OSE from May 2021 to June 2023 treated by our surgical team. To classify different types of patients, we defined the "SSS classification" system. The permutation and combination of subtypes in Symptom (including three subtypes: Convex = v, Concave = c and Bilateral = b), Stenosis (including three subtypes: Convex = v, Concave = c and Bilateral = b), and Segment (including two subtypes: Edge = e and Inside = i) yields 18 possible types (details in Table 1) in this classification system. To classify different types of surgeries, we also defined the operation system. The VAS Back and VAS Leg scores after surgical treatment were significantly lower in all patients 3 months after surgery than before surgery. (**P < 0.05). The Svve type accounted for the greatest proportion of patients (62.50%) in the VAS back remission group, and the Scce type accounted for the greatest proportion (57.14%) in the VAS back ineffective group. According to the VAS leg score, the percentage of patients in whom Svve was detected in the VAS leg remission group reached 60.87%, and the percentage of patients in whom Svve was detected in the VAS leg ineffective group reached 44.44%. Svve accounted for the greatest proportion of cases (61.22%) in the JOA-effective group, and Scce accounted for the greatest proportion of cases (50.00%) in the JOA-ineffective group. In the JOA-effective group, the Ovv type accounted for the greatest proportion (up to 79.59%), while in the JOA-ineffective group, Occ and Ovv accounted for 50.00% of the cases each. The proportions of Svve type were the highest in the healthy group (up to 60.00%) and the ODI-effective group (up to 50.00%). The Ovv type accounted for the greatest proportion of patients in the ODI-effective group (up to 80.00%), and the Occ type accounted for the greatest proportion of patients in the ODI-ineffective group (up to 60.00%). Most of the surgical plans formulated by the "SSS classification" method were considered appropriate, and only when the symptoms of patients were located on the concave side did the endoscopic decompression plan used in the present study have a limited ability to alleviate symptoms.

Citation: Wang H, et al. The selection of a surgical strategy for the treatment of adult degenerative scoliosis with "pear-shaped" decompression under open spinal endoscopy. The selection of a surgical strategy for the treatment of adult degenerative scoliosis with "pear-shaped" decompression under open spinal endoscopy. 2024; 14:16019. doi: 10.1038/s41598-024-67003-y

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38992132/
