PMID: 38997050
Title: Impact of distribution of carotid intraplaque neovessels on plaque vulnerability.

Abstract: BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: Intraplaque neovessels (INVs) are considered important contributors to carotid plaque vulnerability. The purpose of this study was to examine whether differences in INV distribution affect plaque vulnerability.
METHODS: The study cohort comprised 110 patients with significant stenosis of the carotid artery who had undergone carotid endarterectomy. The distribution of INVs within carotid plaques was assessed by immunohistochemical studies using anti-CD-34 antibody as a marker for endothelial cells. First, we divided the patients into M group and S group depending on the numbers of INVs in middle and shoulder region. Next, we categorized carotid plaques into four categories according to the distributions of INVs: Shoulder, Middle, Mixed, and Scarce. We then compared total area of intraplaque hemorrhage, cholesterol, and calcification, width of thinnest fibrous cap, and number of INVs between the four categories of plaque.
RESULTS: The area of intraplaque hemorrhage was significantly larger in the M group than in the S group (P = 0.011). Meanwhile, symptomatic carotid stenosis was significantly more frequently associated with the Middle and Mixed than the Shoulder and Scarce categories (P < 0.01). The area of intraplaque hemorrhage was significantly different between the four groups (P = 0.022). Rupture of the fibrous cap was more frequently detected in the Middle and Mixed than the other categories (P = 0.002).
CONCLUSIONS: INVs in the middle region of carotid plaques are strongly associated with symptomatic carotid stenosis, intraplaque hemorrhage, and rupture of the fibrous cap. Our findings indicate that the distribution of INVs may affect plaque vulnerability.

Citation: Takeshita S, et al. Impact of distribution of carotid intraplaque neovessels on plaque vulnerability. Impact of distribution of carotid intraplaque neovessels on plaque vulnerability. 2024; 33:107859. doi: 10.1016/j.jstrokecerebrovasdis.2024.107859

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38997050/
