PMID: 38993571
Title: Molecular Interaction of Soluble Klotho with FGF23 in the Pathobiology of Aortic Valve Lesions Induced by Chronic Kidney Disease.

Abstract: Chronic kidney disease (CKD) is linked to greater prevalence and rapid progression of calcific aortic valve disease (CAVD) characterized by valvular leaflet fibrosis and calcification. Fibroblast growth factor 23 (FGF23) level is elevated, and anti-aging protein Klotho is reduced in CKD patients. However, the roles of FGF23 and Klotho in the mechanism of aortic valve fibrosis and calcification remain unclear. We hypothesized that FGF23 mediates CKD-induced CAVD by enhancing aortic valve interstitial cell (AVIC) fibrosis and calcification, while soluble Klotho inhibits FGF23 effect. Methods and Results: In an old mouse model of CKD, kidney damages were accompanied by aortic valve thickening and calcification. FGF23 levels in plasma and aortic valve were increased, while Klotho levels were decreased. Recombinant FGF23 elevated the inflammatory, fibrogenic, and osteogenic activities in AVICs. Neutralizing antibody or shRNA targeting FGF23 suppressed the pathobiological activities in AVICs from valves affected by CAVD. FGF23 exerts its effects on AVICs via FGF receptor (FGFR)/Yes-associated protein (YAP) signaling, and inhibition of FGFR/YAP reduced FGF23's potency in AVICs. Recombinant Klotho downregulated the pathobiological activities in AVICs exposed to FGF23. Incubation of FGF23 with Klotho formed complexes and decreased FGF23's potency. Further, treatment of CKD mice with recombinant Klotho attenuated aortic valve lesions. Conclusion: This study demonstrates that CKD induces FGF23 accumulation, Klotho insufficiency and aortic valve lesions in old mice. FGF23 upregulates the inflammatory, fibrogenic and osteogenic activities in AVICs via the FGFR/YAP signaling pathway. Soluble Klotho suppresses FGF23 effect through molecular interaction and is capable of mitigating CKD-induced CAVD.

Citation: The E, et al. Molecular Interaction of Soluble Klotho with FGF23 in the Pathobiology of Aortic Valve Lesions Induced by Chronic Kidney Disease. Molecular Interaction of Soluble Klotho with FGF23 in the Pathobiology of Aortic Valve Lesions Induced by Chronic Kidney Disease. 2024; 20:3412-3425. doi: 10.7150/ijbs.92447

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38993571/
