PMID: 39004183
Title: Comparative Analysis of Balloon Angioplasty Alone versus Carotid Artery Stenting for Severe Extracranial Carotid Artery Stenosis: A 4-Year Retrospective Study.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: This retrospective study aimed to compare the efficacy of balloon angioplasty alone (BAA) with carotid artery stenting (CAS) for severe extracranial carotid artery stenosis. The primary outcomes assessed were restenosis requiring retreatment and symptomatic stroke occurrence within a 4-year follow-up period.
METHODS: A total of 77 patients with 89 carotid artery stenoses undergoing endovascular carotid revascularization between January 2015 and December 2019 were included. Neuroradiologic evaluations, including computed tomography angiography or magnetic resonance angiography, were performed at defined intervals. Statistical analyses were conducted to compare patient characteristics, angiographic outcomes, and clinical outcomes between the BAA and CAS groups.
RESULTS: The study demonstrated successful outcomes in both groups with low adverse event rates. The overall restenosis rate was 40.2%, but severe restenosis requiring retreatment occurred in only 10 cases (7 in BAA, and 3 in CAS). No significant difference was found in retreatment rates between the 2 groups (P = 0.53). Stroke occurrence within the 4-year follow-up period was observed in 3 patients, with no statistically significant difference between BAA and CAS groups.
CONCLUSIONS: This study provides valuable insights into the comparative effectiveness of BAA and CAS for severe extracranial carotid artery stenosis. Despite slightly shorter intervals to restenosis in the BAA group, there was no significant difference in retreatment or stroke occurrence rates between the 2 procedures. BAA offers advantages in terms of retreatment options.

Citation: Im SH, et al. Comparative Analysis of Balloon Angioplasty Alone versus Carotid Artery Stenting for Severe Extracranial Carotid Artery Stenosis: A 4-Year Retrospective Study. Comparative Analysis of Balloon Angioplasty Alone versus Carotid Artery Stenting for Severe Extracranial Carotid Artery Stenosis: A 4-Year Retrospective Study. 2024; 189:e1013-e1021. doi: 10.1016/j.wneu.2024.07.066

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/39004183/
