PMID: 39008705
Title: [ICG angiography is a safety standard in bariatric surgery].

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: To examine the specific characteristics of ICG-angiography during various bariatric interventions.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: The study included 329 patients, with 105 (32%) undergoing sleeve gastrectomy (LSG), 98 (30%) undergoing mini-gastricbypass (MGB), 126 (38%) undergoing Roux-en-Y gastric bypass (RGB). Intraoperative ICG angiography was perfomed on all patients at 'control points', the perfusion of the gastric stump was qualitatively and quantitatively assessed.
RESULTS: Intraoperative ICG angiography shows that during LSG the angioarchitectonics in the area of the His angle are crucial. The presence of the posterior gastric artery of the gastric main type is a prognostically unfavorable risk factor for the development of ischemic complications. Therefore, to expand the gastric stump it is necessary to suture a 40Fr nasogastric tube and perform peritonization of the staple line. Statistical difference in blood supply at three points were found between and within the two groups of patients (Gis angle area, gastric body, pyloric region) with a p-value &lt;0.001. During MGB, one of the important stages is applying the first (transverse) stapler cassette between the branches of the right and left gastric arteries. This maintains blood supply in anastomosis area, preventing immediate complications such as GEA failure, as well as long-term complications like atrophic gastritis, peptic ulcers, and GEA stenosis.
CONCLUSION: ICG angiography is a useful method for intraoperative assessment of angioarchitecture and perfusion of the gastric stump during bariatric surgery. This helps prevent tissue ischemia and reduce the risk of early and late postoperative complications.

Citation: Khitaryan AG, et al. [ICG angiography is a safety standard in bariatric surgery]. [ICG angiography is a safety standard in bariatric surgery]. 2024; (unknown volume):115-123. doi: 10.17116/hirurgia2024071115

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/39008705/
