PMID: 39006462
Title: A Comprehensive Evaluation of the NAVITOR Transcatheter Aortic Valve Replacement System.

Abstract: Transcatheter aortic valve replacement (TAVR) has undergone significant advancements in the last two decades, expanding its indications and refining transcatheter heart valve (THV) and delivery system designs to improve procedural success and patient outcomes. This review focuses on the Navitor™ valve, a third-generation intra-annular Portico™ valve (Abbott Structural Heart, St Paul, MN, USA) designed to address TAVR complications, particularly paravalvular leak (PVL). We present an overview of the Navitor™ system, comparing it to the first-generation Portico™ THV in terms of THV design, key iterations and clinical outcomes. The Navitor™ THV introduces two key refinements-a protective outer sealing skirt and a more flexible delivery system. These enhancements have led to a significant reduction in 30 day PVL rates, from 6.3% with the first-generation Portico™ to 0% with the Navitor™ system. Additionally, the Navitor™ system exhibited lower rates of severe bleeding (27.3% versus 13.1%) and major vascular complications (5.8% versus 0.7%) compared with the first-generation Portico™. The Navitor™ valve represents a promising advancement in TAVR technology, with notable reductions in complications such as PVL, severe bleeding, and major vascular issues, compared with its predecessor. While further research is needed to assess long-term durability, these results underscore its potential benefits in enhancing patient outcomes and reducing complications. This review provides insights into the evolving landscape of TAVR technology and its quantifiable impact on patient care.

Citation: Aoun J, et al. A Comprehensive Evaluation of the NAVITOR Transcatheter Aortic Valve Replacement System. A Comprehensive Evaluation of the NAVITOR Transcatheter Aortic Valve Replacement System. 2024; 18:26-29. doi: 10.17925/HI.2024.18.1.4

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/39006462/
