PMID: 39006468
Title: Comparison of Coronary Artery Calcium and Quantitative Coronary Plaque in Predicting Obstructive Coronary Artery Disease: Subgroup Analysis of the CLARIFY Study.

Abstract: Background: Agatston coronary artery calcium (CAC) score is a strong predictor of mortality. However, the relationship between CAC and quantitative calcified plaque volume (CPV), which is measured on coronary computed tomography angiography (CCTA), is not well understood. Furthermore, there is limited evidence evaluating the difference between CAC versus CPV and CAC versus total plaque volume (TPV) in predicting obstructive coronary artery disease (CAD). Methods: This study included 147 subjects from the CLARIFY registry, a multicentered study of patients undergoing assessment using CCTA and CAC score as part of acute and stable chest pain evaluation. Automated software service (Cleerly.Inc, Denver, CO, USA) was used to evaluate the degree of vessel stenosis and plaque quantification on CCTA. CAC was measured using the standard Agatston method. Spearman correlation and receiver operating characteristic curve analysis was performed to evaluate the diagnostic ability of CAC, CPV and TPV in detecting obstructive CAD. Results: Results demonstrated a very strong positive correlation between CAC and CPV (r=0.76, p=0.0001) and strong correlation between CAC and TPV (r=0.72, p&lt;0.001) at per-patient level analysis. At per-patient level analysis, the sensitivity of CAC (68%) is lower than CPV (77%) in predicting &gt;50% stenosis, but negative predictive value is comparable. However, the sensitivity of TPV is higher compared with CAC in predicting &gt;50% stenosis, and the negative predictive value of TPV is also higher. Conclusion: CPV and TPV are more sensitive in predicting the severity of obstructive CAD compared with the CAC score. However, the negative predictive value of CAC is comparable to CPV, but is lower than TPV. This study elucidates the relationship between CAC and quantitative plaque types, and especially emphasizes the differences between CAC and CPV which are two distinct plaque measurement techniques that are utilized in predicting obstructive CAD.

Citation: Manubolu VS, et al. Comparison of Coronary Artery Calcium and Quantitative Coronary Plaque in Predicting Obstructive Coronary Artery Disease: Subgroup Analysis of the CLARIFY Study. Comparison of Coronary Artery Calcium and Quantitative Coronary Plaque in Predicting Obstructive Coronary Artery Disease: Subgroup Analysis of the CLARIFY Study. 2024; 18:44-50. doi: 10.17925/HI.2024.18.1.7

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/39006468/
