PMID: 39005262
Title: PTEN Regulates Myofibroblast Activation in Valvular Interstitials Cells based on Subcellular Localization.

Abstract: Aortic valve stenosis (AVS) is characterized by altered mechanics of the valve leaflets, which disrupts blood flow through the aorta and can cause left ventricle hypotrophy. These changes in the valve tissue result in activation of resident valvular interstitial cells (VICs) into myofibroblasts, which have increased levels of αSMA in their stress fibers. The persistence of VIC myofibroblast activation is a hallmark of AVS. In recent years, the tumor suppressor gene phosphatase and tensin homolog (PTEN) has emerged as an important player in the regulation of fibrosis in various tissues (e.g., lung, skin), which motivated us to investigate PTEN as a potential protective factor against matrix-induced myofibroblast activation in VICs. In aortic valve samples from humans, we found high levels of PTEN in healthy tissue and low levels of PTEN in diseased tissue. Then, using pharmacological inducers to treat VIC cultures, we observed PTEN overexpression prevented stiffness-induced myofibroblast activation, whereas genetic and pharmacological inhibition of PTEN further activated myofibroblasts. We also observed increased nuclear PTEN localization in VICs cultured on stiff matrices, and nuclear PTEN also correlated with smaller nuclei, altered expression of histones and a quiescent fibroblast phenotype. Together, these results suggest that PTEN not only suppresses VIC activation, but functions to promote quiescence, and could serve as a potential pharmacological target for the treatment of AVS.

Citation: Batan D, et al. PTEN Regulates Myofibroblast Activation in Valvular Interstitials Cells based on Subcellular Localization. PTEN Regulates Myofibroblast Activation in Valvular Interstitials Cells based on Subcellular Localization. 2024; (unknown volume):(unknown pages). doi: 10.1101/2024.06.30.601424

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/39005262/
