PMID: 39009129
Title: Patient Acceptance and Adherence to the COMPASS Trial Drug Recommendations Following Symptomatic Carotid Endarterectomy.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: The COMPASS trial demonstrated that in patients with atherosclerotic diseases, low-dose rivaroxaban and aspirin provides greater protection against subsequent major adverse cardiovascular events (MACEs) than mono-antiplatelet therapy (MAPT) alone. Drug acceptance and adherence maximizes this benefit. We have assessed drug acceptance and adherence to the COMPASS drug regime in patients following carotid endarterectomy (CEA) for symptomatic carotid artery stenosis.
METHODS: Following CEA, the views of 63 patients on the COMPASS drug regime were assessed using the Beliefs about Medicine Questionnaire and drug adherence was determined using the Sidorkiewicz scoring system. These views were compared with those of 54 patients on MAPT. Side effects (bleeding and drug reactions) and new MACE were recorded.
RESULTS: Post-CEA patients on the COMPASS drug regimen had strong positive views on the necessity to take these drugs (necessity scale 19.6 ± 3.6). Although there were some concerns about the COMPASS drug regimen, these were not strongly held (concern cscale 11.8 ± 4.9) and the necessity-concerns differential was positive (7.8 ± 6.2). The Drug Adherence Score was "High" to "Good" (level of drug adherence 1.7 ± 1.0). The Beliefs about Medicine Questionnaire scales and Drug Adherence Score of post-CEA patients on the COMPASS drug regimen were similar to those on MAPT. The incidence of post-CEA MACE and side effects were similar for those on the COMPASS drug regimen and MAPT.
CONCLUSIONS: Post-CEA patients on the COMPASS drug regimen had positive views on taking the drugs and drug adherence was high. We did not identify any patient-related barriers to the use of the COMPASS drug regimen to further reduce cardiovascular events.

Citation: Baker D, et al. Patient Acceptance and Adherence to the COMPASS Trial Drug Recommendations Following Symptomatic Carotid Endarterectomy. Patient Acceptance and Adherence to the COMPASS Trial Drug Recommendations Following Symptomatic Carotid Endarterectomy. 2024; 108:403-409. doi: 10.1016/j.avsg.2024.05.018

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/39009129/
