PMID: 39019330
Title: Predictors and prognostic value of coronary computed tomography angiography for unrecognized myocardial infarction in patients with chronic coronary syndrome.

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: Unrecognized myocardial infarction (UMI) on delayed-enhancement cardiac magnetic resonance imaging (DE-CMR) and coronary computed tomography angiography (CCTA) derived high-risk features provide prognostic information in patients with chronic coronary syndrome (CCS). The study aimed to assess the prognostic value of UMI and predictors of UMI using CCTA in patients with CCS who underwent elective percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI).
METHODS: This study enrolled 181 patients with CCS who underwent DE-CMR and CCTA before elective PCI. The CCTA-derived predictors of UMI and the association of baseline clinical characteristics, CCTA findings, and CMR-derived factors, including UMI, with MACEs, defined as death, nonfatal myocardial infarction, unplanned late revascularization, hospitalization for congestive heart failure, and stroke, were investigated.
RESULTS: UMI was detected in 57 (31.5%) patients. ROC analysis revealed that the optimal cut-off values of Agatston score and mean peri-coronary fat attenuation index (FAI) for predicting the presence of UMI were 397 and -69.8, respectively. The multivariable logistic regression analysis revealed that left ventricular mass, Agatston score >397, mean FAI >-69.8, positive remodeling of the target lesion, and CCTA-derived stenosis severity were independent predictors of UMI. Kaplan-Meier analysis revealed that patients with UMI were associated with increased risk of MACEs. The Cox proportional hazards analysis showed post-PCI minimum lumen diameter and the presence of UMI were independent predictors of MACEs. The risk of MACEs significantly increased according to the number of four preprocedural CCTA-relevant features of UMI.
CONCLUSION: Preprocedural comprehensive CCTA analysis may help predict the presence of UMI and provide prognostic information in patients with CCS who underwent PCI.

Citation: Teng Y, et al. Predictors and prognostic value of coronary computed tomography angiography for unrecognized myocardial infarction in patients with chronic coronary syndrome. Predictors and prognostic value of coronary computed tomography angiography for unrecognized myocardial infarction in patients with chronic coronary syndrome. 2024; (unknown volume):(unknown pages). doi: 10.1016/j.hjc.2024.07.004

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/39019330/
