PMID: 39018788
Title: In silico model of stent performance in multi-layered artery using 2-way fluid-structure interaction: Influence of boundary conditions and vessel length.

Abstract: BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVE: Atherosclerotic lesions of coronary arteries (stenosis) are caused by the buildup of lipids and blood-borne substances within the artery wall. Their qualitative and rapid assessment is still a challenging task. The primary therapy for this pathology involves implanting coronary stents, which help to restore the blood flow in atherosclerosis-prone arteries. In-stent restenosis is a stenting-procedure complication detected in about 10-40% of patients. A numerical study using 2-way fluid-structure interaction (FSI) assesses the stenting procedure quality and can decrease the number of negative post-operative results. Nevertheless, boundary conditions (BCs) used in simulation play a crucial role in implementation of an adequate computational analysis.
METHODS: Three CoCr stents designs were modelled with the suggested approach. A multi-layer structure describing the artery and plaque with anisotropic hyperelastic mechanical properties was adopted in this study. Two kinds of boundary conditions for a solid domain were examined - fixed support (FS) and remote displacement (RD) - to assess their impact on the hemodynamic parameters to predict restenosis. Additionally, the influence of artery elongation (short-artery model vs. long-artery model) on numerical results with the FS boundary condition was analyzed.
RESULTS: The comparison of FS and RD boundary conditions demonstrated that the variation of hemodynamic parameters values did not exceed 2%. The analysis of short-artery and long-artery models revealed that the difference in hemodynamic parameters was less than 5.1%, and in most cases, it did not exceed 2.5%. The RD boundary conditions were found to reduce the computation time by up to 1.7-2.0 times compared to FS. Simple stent model was shown to be susceptible to restenosis development, with maximum WSS values equal to 183 Pa, compared to much lower values for other two stents.
CONCLUSIONS: The study revealed that the stent design significantly affected the hemodynamic parameters as restenosis predictors. Moreover, the stress-strain state of the system artery-plaque-stent also depends on a proper choice of boundary conditions.

Citation: Khairulin A, et al. In silico model of stent performance in multi-layered artery using 2-way fluid-structure interaction: Influence of boundary conditions and vessel length. In silico model of stent performance in multi-layered artery using 2-way fluid-structure interaction: Influence of boundary conditions and vessel length. 2024; 255:108327. doi: 10.1016/j.cmpb.2024.108327

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/39018788/
