PMID: 39019257
Title: Independent Factors Influencing Changes in Baroreceptor Sensitivity after Carotid Endarterectomy.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Carotid endarterectomy (CEA) is a well-established standard therapy for patients with symptomatic or asymptomatic high-grade carotid stenosis. The aim of carotid endarterectomy is to decrease the risk of stroke and avoid relevant functional loss. However, carotid endarterectomy is known to be associated with hemodynamic dysregulation. In this study we compared eversion CEA (E-CEA) and conventional CEA (C-CEA) regarding postoperative blood pressure values as well as preoperative and postoperative baroreceptor sensitivity in the first 7 days after surgery. The aim was to find possible factors influencing changes in baroreceptor sensitivity.
METHODS: Patients (111 patients were enrolled, of which 50 patients received C-CEA and 61 patients E-CEA) were prospectively enrolled in this study. For the measurement of baroreceptor sensitivity, a noninvasive Finometer measuring device from Finapres Medical System B.V. (Amsterdam, The Netherlands) was used. Measurements were performed 1 day before surgery (PRE), directly after surgery (F1), on day 1 (F2), day 2 (F3), and on day 7 (F4) postoperatively.
RESULTS: Postoperative blood pressure values were significantly higher in the E-CEA group on the day of surgery (F1) (P < 0.001) and on day 1 (F2) (P < 0.001). From day 2 (F3, F4) postoperatively, no significant difference was found between the 2 groups. The invasive blood pressure measurement in the postoperative recovery room showed significantly higher systolic blood pressure values in the E-CEA group (P = 0.001). The need of acute antihypertensive therapy was significantly higher in the recovery room in the E-CEA group (P = 0.020). With regard to changes in baroreceptor sensitivity, significantly lower baroreceptor sensitivity (BRS) values were recorded in the E-CEA group at 1 day (F2) postoperatively (P = 0.005). The regression analysis showed that the applied surgical technique and the patient's age were significant factors influencing changes in baroreceptor sensitivity.
CONCLUSIONS: In this study we could confirm higher blood pressure levels after E-CEA in the first 2 days after surgery. Additionally, we identified 22 factors possibly influencing baroreceptor sensitivity: surgical technique and age. Based on the data obtained in this study, hemodynamic dysregulation after CEA (E-CEA, C-CEA) is temporary and short-term. Already after the second postoperative day, there was no significant difference between the E-CEA and E-CEA groups, this effect remained stable after 7 days.

Citation: Yagshyyev S, et al. Independent Factors Influencing Changes in Baroreceptor Sensitivity after Carotid Endarterectomy. Independent Factors Influencing Changes in Baroreceptor Sensitivity after Carotid Endarterectomy. 2024; 108:393-402. doi: 10.1016/j.avsg.2024.06.008

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/39019257/
