PMID: 39010692
Title: High-frequency repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation ameliorates memory impairment by inhibiting neuroinflammation in the chronic cerebral hypoperfusion mice.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: High-frequency repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (HF-rTMS) has been found to ameliorate cognitive impairment. However, the effects of HF-rTMS remain unknown in chronic cerebral hypoperfusion (CCH).
AIM: To investigate the effects of HF-rTMS on cognitive improvement and its potential mechanisms in CCH mice.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Daily HF-rTMS therapy was delivered after bilateral carotid stenosis (BCAS) and continued for 14 days. The mice were randomly assigned to three groups: the sham group, the model group, and the HF-rTMS group. The Y maze and the new object recognition test were used to assess cognitive function. The expressions of MAP-2, synapsis, Myelin basic protein(MBP), and brain-derived growth factors (BDNF) were analyzed by immunofluorescence staining and western blot to evaluate neuronal plasticity and white matter myelin regeneration. Nissl staining and the expression of caspase-3, Bax, and Bcl-2 were used to observe neuronal apoptosis. In addition, the activation of microglia and astrocytes were evaluated by fluorescence staining. The inflammation levels of IL-1β, IL-6, and Tumor Necrosis Factor(TNF)-α were detected by qPCR in the hippocampus of mice in each group.
RESULTS: Via behavioral tests, the BCAS mice showed reduced a rate of new object preference and decreased a rate of spontaneous alternations, while HF-rTMS significantly improved hippocampal learning and memory deficits. In addition, the mice in the model group showed decreased levels of MAP-2, synapsis, MBP, and BDNF, while HF-rTMS treatment reversed these effects. As expected, activated microglia and astrocytes increased in the model group, but HF-rTMS treatment suppressed these changes. HF-rTMS decreased BCAS-induced neuronal apoptosis and the expression of pro-apoptotic protein (Caspase-3 and Bax) and increased the expression of anti-apoptotic protein (Bcl-2). In addition, HF-rTMS inhibited the expression of inflammatory cytokines (IL-1β, IL-6, and TNF-α).
CONCLUSIONS: HF-rTMS alleviates cognitive impairment in CCH mice by enhancing neuronal plasticity and inhibiting inflammation, thus serving as a potential method for vascular cognitive impairment.

Citation: Zou H, et al. High-frequency repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation ameliorates memory impairment by inhibiting neuroinflammation in the chronic cerebral hypoperfusion mice. High-frequency repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation ameliorates memory impairment by inhibiting neuroinflammation in the chronic cerebral hypoperfusion mice. 2024; 14:e3618. doi: 10.1002/brb3.3618

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/39010692/
