PMID: 39014431
Title: Sarcoidosis-associated pulmonary hypertension due to pulmonary arteries stenosis - a case report.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Sarcoidosis-associated pulmonary hypertension (SAPH) is listed in Group 5 of the clinical classification of pulmonary hypertension, due to its complex and multifactorial pathophysiology. The most common cause of SAPH development is advanced lung fibrosis with the associated destruction of the vascular bed, and/or alveolar hypoxia. However, a substantial proportion of SAPH patients (up to 30%) do not have significant fibrosis on chest imaging. In such cases, the development of pulmonary hypertension may be due to the lesions directly affecting the pulmonary vasculature, such as granulomatous angiitis, pulmonary veno-occlusive disease, chronic thromboembolism or external compression of vessels by enlarged lymph nodes. Based on the case of a 69-year-old female who developed SAPH due to pulmonary arteries stenosis, diagnostic difficulties and therapeutic management are discussed.
CASE PRESENTATION: The patient, non-smoking female, diagnosed with stage II sarcoidosis twelve years earlier, presented with progressive dyspnoea on exertion, dry cough, minor haemoptysis and increasing oedema of the lower limbs. Computed tomography pulmonary angiography (CTPA) showed complete occlusion of the right upper lobe artery and narrowing of the left lower lobe artery, with post-stenotic dilatation of the arteries of the basal segments. The vascular pathology was caused by adjacent, enlarged lymph nodes with calcifications and fibrotic tissue surrounding the vessels. Pulmonary artery thrombi were not found. The patient was treated with systemic corticosteroid therapy and subsequently with balloon pulmonary angioplasty. Partial improvement in clinical status and hemodynamic parameters has been achieved.
CONCLUSIONS: An appropriate screening strategy is required for early detection of pulmonary hypertension in sarcoidosis patients. Once SAPH diagnosis is confirmed, it is crucial to determine the appropriate phenotype of pulmonary hypertension and provide the most effective treatment plan. Although determining SAPH phenotype is challenging, one should remember about the possibility of pulmonary arteries occlusion.

Citation: Sobiecka M, et al. Sarcoidosis-associated pulmonary hypertension due to pulmonary arteries stenosis - a case report. Sarcoidosis-associated pulmonary hypertension due to pulmonary arteries stenosis - a case report. 2024; 24:346. doi: 10.1186/s12890-024-03152-0

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/39014431/
