PMID: 39015888
Title: Effects of systematic cardiac rehabilitation training in elderly patients with unstable angina following cardiac stent implantation.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Coronary stent implantation is usually used to treat unstable angina to alleviate stenosis or occlusion, promoting blood flow restoration and alleviating symptoms such as myocardial ischemia. And postoperative cardiac rehabilitation is essential for enhancing recovery and prognosis. Nevertheless, conventional rehabilitation lacks specificity, particularly for elderly patients with multiple comorbidities and poor compliance, rendering it less effective.
AIM: To investigate the effects of systematic cardiac rehabilitation training in elderly patients with unstable angina following coronary stenting intervention.
METHODS: A retrospective enrollment was conducted comprising fifty-four elderly patients with unstable angina pectoris who underwent systematic cardiac rehabilitation training after receiving coronary intervention as the rehabilitation group, while fifty-three elderly patients who received basic nursing and rehabilitation guidance measures after coronary intervention were assigned to the control group. Differences in Seattle Angina Questionnaire scores, survival quality (SF-36) scores, cardiopulmonary exercise function assessment index, echocardiographic cardiac function index, and adverse cardiovascular events were compared between the two groups.
RESULTS: After intervention, the rehabilitation group observed greater VO<sub>2</sub> Max, maximum metabolic equivalent, eft ventricular ejection fraction, left ventricular end-diastolic diameter and smaller left ventricular end-systolic diameter. And the rehabilitation group observed greater scores of physical activity limitation, stable angina pectoris, treatment satisfaction, and SF-36 score. The incidence of adverse cardiovascular events in the two groups, showed no significant difference.
CONCLUSION: Systematic cardiac rehabilitation following coronary stenting in elderly patients with unstable angina pectoris can enhance cardiac function recovery, consequently enhancing both quality of life and cardiopulmonary exercise tolerance.

Citation: Yan LL, et al. Effects of systematic cardiac rehabilitation training in elderly patients with unstable angina following cardiac stent implantation. Effects of systematic cardiac rehabilitation training in elderly patients with unstable angina following cardiac stent implantation. 2024; 12:4137-4145. doi: 10.12998/wjcc.v12.i20.4137

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/39015888/
