PMID: 39029030
Title: Compensatory strategies of dysphagia after anterior cervical spinal surgery: A case report.

Abstract: RATIONALE: Dysphagia after anterior cervical discectomy and fusion (ACDF) is a common postoperative complication. However, information regarding rehabilitation strategies for postoperative dysphagia is limited. Herein, we report a compensatory strategy for treating dysphagia after ACDF.
PATIENT CONCERNS: A 65-year-old Asian male presented with left arm pain and weakness for more than 1 month. Magnetic resonance imaging of the cervical spine revealed degenerative disc lesions and spinal stenosis at the C3 to C7 levels. The patient underwent ACDF at the C3 to C5 levels and artificial disc replacement at the C5 to C7 levels by right side approach. After surgery, the patient complained of difficulty swallowing. A video fluoroscopic swallowing study (VFSS) detected swallowing dysfunction in the pharyngeal phase, revealing an asymmetric pharyngeal residue in the anterior-posterior view.
DIAGNOSIS: The patient was diagnosed with dysphagia after ACDF.
INTERVENTIONS: Based on the VFSS findings, the patient underwent swallowing rehabilitation therapy and compensatory techniques, such as head rotation to the weak right side and head tilting to the robust left side.
OUTCOMES: After 2 months of rehabilitation with compensatory techniques, food moved smoothly towards the robust side, and the subjective symptoms of dysphagia improved.
LESSONS: Consequently, swallowing function post-ACDF surgery must be assessed; if unilateral dysphagia is detected, compensatory techniques may prove beneficial. This case study showed that, based on the objective findings of the VFSS, an effective swallowing compensation strategy can be established and applied to patients with postoperative dysphagia.

Citation: Chung SJ, et al. Compensatory strategies of dysphagia after anterior cervical spinal surgery: A case report. Compensatory strategies of dysphagia after anterior cervical spinal surgery: A case report. 2024; 103:e39016. doi: 10.1097/MD.0000000000039016

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/39029030/
