PMID: 39025105
Title: A pilot study on endoscopic delivery of injectable bioadhesive for esophageal repair in a porcine model.

Abstract: Endoscopic submucosal dissection (ESD) is the gold-standard surgical procedure for superficial esophageal cancer. A significant and challenging complication of this technique is post-ESD esophageal stricture. In this study, the feasibility of endoscopic catheter delivery of bioadhesive to esophageal lesions in a porcine model was tested. Injectable bioadhesive was composed of oxidized dextran (ODA) and chitosan hydrochloride (CS), its physicochemical properties, injectability, antibacterial activity, and cytocompatibility were investigated beforein vivotest. ODA-CS bioadhesive was delivered to the wound bed of the esophageal tissue using a custom-made catheter device after ESD in a porcine model. Our results show that the ODA-CS bioadhesive is of good injectability, tissue adhesive strength, antibacterial capacity, and blood compatibility.In vivodelivery was achieved by endoscopic spraying of ODA and CS in separate catheters fixed on the endoscopic probe. ODA and CS can be mixed well to allow in situ bioadhesive formation and firmly adhere to the esophageal wound surface. After two weeks, the bioadhesive maintained structural integrity and adhered to the surface of esophageal wounds. However, histological analysis reveals that the ODA-CS bioadhesive did not show improvement in attenuating inflammatory response after ESD. This pilot study demonstrates the feasibility of ODA-CS bioadhesive for shielding esophageal wounds after ESD, whereas efforts need to improve its anti-inflammatory activity to reduce fibrosis for stricture prevention.

Citation: Xia J, et al. A pilot study on endoscopic delivery of injectable bioadhesive for esophageal repair in a porcine model. A pilot study on endoscopic delivery of injectable bioadhesive for esophageal repair in a porcine model. 2024; 19:(unknown pages). doi: 10.1088/1748-605X/ad6546

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/39025105/
