PMID: 39025352
Title: Nerve-sparing deep endometriosis surgery with rectal discoid resection using da Vinci SP.

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: To demonstrate the anatomical and technical highlights of nerve-sparing deep endometriosis (DE) surgery with rectal discoid resection using a newer single-port robotic system.
DESIGN: Step-by-step demonstration of this method was provided with narrated video footage.
SETTING: The surgery was performed at an urban general hospital. Single-port laparoscopic surgery is a useful surgical approach in gynecology because of the excellent cosmetic results but shows challenges including reduced intracorporeal triangulation and conflict with nonarticulating instruments. The range of indications is thus limited.
PATIENT: A 46-year-old woman was referred with severe pelvic pain, dysmenorrhea, and pain on defecation. Magnetic resonance imaging revealed uterine adenomyosis, bilateral ovarian endometriomas, and 3 cm of rectal endometriosis. Computed tomography colonography confirmed 38% stenosis of the rectum.
INTERVENTION: A newer single-port robotic system was used.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: The main outcome measures were technical safety and feasibility of intrapelvic complex DE surgery using a newer single-port robotic platform.
RESULTS: The procedure was performed using nine steps with a da Vinci SP surgical system (Intuitive Surgical, Sunnyvale, California). Importantly, the surgical steps were completely identical to conventional multiport laparoscopic or robotic surgery. This suggests that conventional laparoscopic or robotic skills are highly transferrable to the newer system. The surgical steps are as follows: The newer single-port system offered several advantages, including high-resolution three-dimensional visualization, articulating instruments (intracorporeal instrument triangulation), and improved dexterity and range of motion. These advantages allow precise dissection even in difficult situations such as DE.
CONCLUSIONS: This appears to be the first reported use of the da Vinci SP for nerve-sparing DE surgery or rectal discoid resection. The newer single-port robotic system can provide the same quality of surgery as conventional multiport laparoscopic and robotic platforms with cosmetic advantages for the treatment of complex pelvic pathologies.

Citation: Kanno K, et al. Nerve-sparing deep endometriosis surgery with rectal discoid resection using da Vinci SP. Nerve-sparing deep endometriosis surgery with rectal discoid resection using da Vinci SP. 2024; 122:758-760. doi: 10.1016/j.fertnstert.2024.07.015

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/39025352/
