PMID: 39029215
Title: Balloon dilatation followed by triamcinolone acetonide injection for colostomy stenosis: A case report.

Abstract: INTRODUCTION: Stenosis is a serious complication associated with stomas. The initial treatment for stoma stenosis is mainly the finger-bougie technique or balloon dilatation, and recurrence requires stomal reconstruction. However, the use of local triamcinolone injections for treating stoma stenosis has not been reported. Herein, we reported a case of repeated stoma stenosis in a high-risk patient in whom balloon dilatation combined with local triamcinolone injection effectively avoided stomal reconstruction.
PRESENTATION OF CASE: A woman in her 70s was admitted to our hospital with the chief complaint of a positive fecal occult blood test and was diagnosed with Ra advanced rectal cancer. Owing to the presence of multiple comorbidities, a laparoscopic Hartmann procedure with D3 dissection was performed. The operative time was 165 min and the intraoperative blood loss was 5 mL. On postoperative day 2, the colostomy stump became discolored, and stoma necrosis was diagnosed, which was successfully treated conservatively, with no findings of stoma falling or peritonitis. Six months after surgery, late stoma stenosis causing colonic obstruction was diagnosed, and the finger-bougie technique and balloon dilatation were ineffective. To avoid reoperation under general anesthesia, balloon dilatation using a CRE™ PRO GI Wireguided (Boston Scientific) at 19 mm for 3 min combined with a 40 mg injection of local triamcinolone into the stoma orifice scar was successfully performed.
DISCUSSION: No restenosis was observed after treatment.
CONCLUSION: Balloon dilatation combined with local triamcinolone injections may be effective for recurrent stoma stenosis in patients with high-risk comorbidities after rectal cancer surgery.

Citation: Matsumoto R, et al. Balloon dilatation followed by triamcinolone acetonide injection for colostomy stenosis: A case report. Balloon dilatation followed by triamcinolone acetonide injection for colostomy stenosis: A case report. 2024; 121:110056. doi: 10.1016/j.ijscr.2024.110056

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/39029215/
