PMID: 39028801
Title: Artificial Chordae Implantation vs Posterior Leaflet Preservation: A Comparison of Midterm Results After Mitral Valve Replacement.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Various techniques have been proposed for the preservation of the subvalvular apparatus (SVA) in mitral valve replacement. This study aimed to compare the midterm results of posterior leaflet preservation with the results of selective preservation of the SVA involving artificial chordae implantation in terms of left ventricular performance in patients undergoing mitral valve replacement.
METHODS: In total, 127 patients were included in this study. Patients were allocated to 1 of 2 groups according to the techniques used to preserve the SVA. Patients in group 1 underwent posterior leaflet preservation: The anterior leaflet was completely resected, and the posterior leaflet was preserved. In group 2, which comprised patients with severe leaflet extension and subvalvular fusion, the mitral valve was excised completely and substituted with artificial chordae. All relevant preoperative, intraoperative, and postoperative data were recorded.
RESULTS: Mean (SD) ages in groups 1 and 2 were 63.1 (9.65) and 57.1 (12.3) years, respectively (P = .003). Mean (SD) follow-up time was 59.97 (23.63) months (range, 6-99 months). Left ventricular end-diastolic diameter decreased significantly after artificial chordae implantation (P < .001), while the decrease after posterior leaflet preservation was not statistically significant (P = .20). In both groups, there were statistically significant reductions (P < .001) in left ventricular end-systolic diameter and left atrium diameter in the postoperative period compared with respective preoperative levels. During follow-up, left ventricular ejection fraction was found to have increased beyond the preoperative levels in both groups, but the differences were not statistically significant (P > .05).
CONCLUSION: Results of echocardiographic observations regarding the preservation of the SVA via artificial chordae implantation for mitral valve disease in this sample were satisfactory. Findings suggest that artificial chordae implantation should be considered when posterior leaflet preservation is not suitable.

Citation: Salihi S, et al. Artificial Chordae Implantation vs Posterior Leaflet Preservation: A Comparison of Midterm Results After Mitral Valve Replacement. Artificial Chordae Implantation vs Posterior Leaflet Preservation: A Comparison of Midterm Results After Mitral Valve Replacement. 2024; 51:(unknown pages). doi: 10.14503/THIJ-23-8291

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/39028801/
