PMID: 39029127
Title: Indications for cerebral revascularization for moyamoya syndrome in pediatric sickle cell disease determined by Delphi methodology.

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: Cerebral revascularization surgery (CRS) has been used to prevent stroke in children with sickle cell disease (SCD) and cerebral vasculopathy (e.g., moyamoya syndrome). While results suggest that it may be an effective treatment, surgical indications have not been well defined. This study sought to determine indications for offering revascularization surgery in centers with established sickle cell programs in the US.
METHODS: Three sequential surveys utilizing the Delphi methodology were administered to neurosurgeons participating in the Stroke in Sickle Cell Revascularization Surgery study. Respondents were presented with clinical scenarios of patients with SCD and varying degrees of ischemic presentation and vasculopathy, and the group's agreement to offer surgical revascularization was measured. Consensus was defined as ≥ 75% similar responses.
RESULTS: The response rate to all 3 surveys was 100%. Seventeen neurosurgeons from 16 different centers participated. The presence of moyamoya collaterals (MMCs) and arterial stenosis matching an ischemic distribution yielded the strongest recommendations to offer surgery. There was consensus to offer revascularization in the presence of MMCs and at least 50% arterial stenosis matching an ischemic distribution. In contrast, there was no consensus to offer revascularization with 50%-70% stenosis not matching an ischemic presentation in the absence of MMCs. The presence of the ivy sign in the distribution of the stenotic artery also contributed to the consensus to offer surgery in certain scenarios.
CONCLUSIONS: There were several clinical scenarios that attained consensus to offer surgery; the strongest was moderate to severe arterial stenosis that matched the distribution of ischemic presentation in the presence of MMCs. Radiological findings of decreased cerebral flow or perfusion also facilitated attaining consensus to offer surgery. The findings of this study reflect expert opinion about questions that deserve prospective clinical research. Determination of indications for CRS can guide clinical practice and aid the design of prospective studies.

Citation: Robert AP, et al. Indications for cerebral revascularization for moyamoya syndrome in pediatric sickle cell disease determined by Delphi methodology. Indications for cerebral revascularization for moyamoya syndrome in pediatric sickle cell disease determined by Delphi methodology. 2024; 34:402-413. doi: 10.3171/2024.5.PEDS2426

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/39029127/
