PMID: 39033329
Title: Transcatheter pulmonary valve replacement after arterial switch operation.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Patients with d-transposition of the great arteries (d-TGA) who have undergone an arterial switch operation (ASO) can develop right ventricular outflow tract (RVOT) dysfunction with pulmonary regurgitation (PR) or stenosis. In these patients, treatment may include transcatheter pulmonary valve replacement (TPVR). Coronary compression is a contraindication occurring in 5% of typical TPVR cases. After ASO, there are various anatomical considerations that can confound TPVR, including potential coronary artery compression. Our goal is to understand feasibility of TPVR in patients following ASO.
METHODS: This was a retrospective multicenter cohort study of patients with RVOT dysfunction after ASO who underwent cardiac catheterization with intention to perform TPVR from 2008 to 2020.
RESULTS: Across nine centers, 33 patients met inclusion criteria. TPVR was successful in 22 patients (66%), 19 receiving a Melody valve and 3 a SAPIEN valve. RVOT stenosis in isolation or with PR dictated need for TPVR in nearly all patients. One serious adverse event occurred with valve embolization. After TPVR, the RVOT peak gradient decreased from 43 to 9 mm Hg (p < 0.001); PR was trivial/none in all but one patient, in whom it was mild. Coronary compression prohibiting TPVR occurred in eight patients (24%) and two patients (6%) had severe aortic regurgitation from aortic root deformation precluding TPVR. Seven patients underwent RVOT reintervention a median of 5.3 years post-TPVR.
CONCLUSIONS: TPVR in patients with d-TGA after ASO is feasible, but in this cohort, coronary compression or aortic root distortion precluded TPVR in one-third of patients. The rate of RVOT reintervention after TPVR was higher in this cohort of ASO patients than in prior studies.

Citation: Nageotte S, et al. Transcatheter pulmonary valve replacement after arterial switch operation. Transcatheter pulmonary valve replacement after arterial switch operation. 2024; 104:531-539. doi: 10.1002/ccd.31152

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/39033329/
