PMID: 39033929
Title: Development of a biodegradable prosthesis through tissue engineering, for the organ-replacement or substitution of the extrahepatic bile duct.

Abstract: INTRODUCTION AND OBJECTIVES: There are different situations in which an extrahepatic bile duct replacement or substitute is needed, such as initial and localized stages of bile duct cancer, agenesis, stenosis, or bile duct disruption.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: A prosthesis obtained by electrospinning composed of Poly (D,L-lactide-co-glycolide) (PGLA) - Polycaprolactone (PCL) - Gelatin (Gel) was developed, mechanical and biological tests were carried out to evaluate resistance to tension, biocompatibility, biodegradability, cytotoxicity, morphological analysis and cell culture. The obtained prosthesis was placed in the extrahepatic bile duct of 15 pigs with a 2-year follow-up. Liver function tests and cholangioscopy were evaluated during follow-up.
RESULTS: Mechanical and biological evaluations indicate that this scaffold is biocompatible and biodegradable. The prosthesis implanted in the experimental model allowed cell adhesion, migration, and proliferation, maintaining bile duct permeability without altering liver function tests. Immunohistochemical analysis indicates the presence of biliary epithelium.
CONCLUSIONS: A tubular scaffold composed of electrospun PGLA-PCL-Gel nanofibers was used for the first time to replace the extrahepatic bile duct in pigs. Mechanical and biological evaluations indicate that this scaffold is biocompatible and biodegradable, making it an excellent candidate for use in bile ducts and potentially in other tissue engineering applications.

Citation: Valderrama-Treviño AI, et al. Development of a biodegradable prosthesis through tissue engineering, for the organ-replacement or substitution of the extrahepatic bile duct. Development of a biodegradable prosthesis through tissue engineering, for the organ-replacement or substitution of the extrahepatic bile duct. 2024; 29:101530. doi: 10.1016/j.aohep.2024.101530

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/39033929/
