PMID: 39036008
Title: A rare cause of upper gastrointestinal system obstruction: Superior mesenteric artery syndrome (Wilkie's syndrome); two different case reports.

Abstract: Superior mesenteric artery syndrome is defined as a collection of clinical symptoms and findings that result from compression of the third part of the duodenum between the aorta and the superior mesenteric artery. Here, we describe two patients who were diagnosed with superior mesenteric artery syndrome. Two patients, 18 and 38 years old, respectively, presented to our clinic with complaints of nausea, vomiting, and weight loss. Computed tomography scans of both patients supported diagnoses of superior mesenteric artery syndrome. The 18-year-old patient recovered with conservative treatment. However, our 38-year-old patient did not recover with conservative treatment and required two surgeries. In the first operation, duodenal release with Treitz's ligament dissection and pyloroplasty were performed because of concomitant hypertrophic pyloric stenosis. Because the patient exhibited gastroparesis and gastric ptosis after the first operation, subtotal gastrectomy and Roux-n-Y gastrojejunostomy were performed in the second operation. No complications were observed during follow-up after the second operation. Superior mesenteric artery syndrome should be considered in the differential diagnosis of patients with nausea, vomiting, and weight loss of unknown cause. During treatment, weight-gaining conservative approaches should be attempted initially, but surgical treatment should not be excessively delayed in patients who do not respond to medical treatment.

Citation: Sertkaya M, et al. A rare cause of upper gastrointestinal system obstruction: Superior mesenteric artery syndrome (Wilkie's syndrome); two different case reports. A rare cause of upper gastrointestinal system obstruction: Superior mesenteric artery syndrome (Wilkie's syndrome); two different case reports. 2024; 40:87-92. doi: 10.47717/turkjsurg.2022.4655

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/39036008/
