PMID: 39034145
Title: Increased Diastolic Energy Loss Associated with Cardiac Events in Adults with Pulmonary Atresia Suffering from Intact Ventricular Septum.

Abstract: PURPOSE: To assess right heart diastolic energy loss (EL) as a cardiac workload and evaluate its association with major cardiac events (MACE) in adult patients with pulmonary atresia with an intact ventricular septum (PAIVS).
METHODS: We retrospectively enrolled and compared 30 consecutive adult patients (18 with PAIVS and 12 with pulmonary stenosis [PS] as controls) who underwent right ventricular (RV) outflow tract reconstruction and 4D flow MRI. EL, conventional parameters on MRI, and the severity of tricuspid regurgitation (TR) on echocardiography were assessed. We also evaluated the association between MACE including arrhythmias, heart failure, surgical intervention, and imaging parameters in adults with PAIVS.
RESULTS: Patients with PAIVS were younger, had a higher diastolic EL/cardiac output (CO) ratio, and had a more significant TR than those with PS (controls). However, RV volume, ejection fraction (EF), and pulmonary regurgitation (PR) severity did not differ between the two groups. Higher RV end-diastolic pressure (EDP) and lower cardiac index (CI) correlated with the diastolic EL/CO in patients with PAIVS. Univariate logistic analysis demonstrated that older age and a higher diastolic EL/CO ratio were important factors for MACE in adults with PAIVS (P = 0.048, 0.049).
CONCLUSION: A higher diastolic EL/CO ratio was associated with a higher RV EDP and lower CI. A high diastolic EL/CO ratio is also associated with MACE in adults with PAIVS. Even in adults with normal RV volume and EF, the right heart EL was elevated, suggesting an excessive right-sided cardiac workload that integrated both afterload and preload beyond the RV size in adult patients with PAIVS.

Citation: Shiina Y, et al. Increased Diastolic Energy Loss Associated with Cardiac Events in Adults with Pulmonary Atresia Suffering from Intact Ventricular Septum. Increased Diastolic Energy Loss Associated with Cardiac Events in Adults with Pulmonary Atresia Suffering from Intact Ventricular Septum. 2024; (unknown volume):(unknown pages). doi: 10.2463/mrms.mp.2023-0130

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/39034145/
