PMID: 39039523
Title: Novel approach for tracheal resection in Morquio a syndrome with end-stage critical airway obstruction: a UK case series.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Mucopolysaccharidosis (MPS) type IVA is a rare lysosomal storage disorder caused by aberrations of the N-acetyl-galactosamine-6-sulfatase (GALNS) enzyme. MPS IVA is associated with a wide gamut of respiratory and airway disorders that manifest in a continuum of severity. In individuals exhibiting severe phenotypic expression, terminal stages of the disease frequently culminate in life-threatening, critical airway obstruction. These manifestations of end-stage disease are engendered by an insidious progression of multi-level airway pathologies, comprising of tracheomalacia, stenosis, tortuosity and 'buckling'. Historically, the management of end-stage airway disease has predominantly leaned towards palliative modalities. However, contemporary literature has posited that the potential benefits of tracheal resection with aortopexy, performed under cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB), may offer a promising therapeutic option. In this context, we report on outcomes from patients undergoing a novel approach to tracheal resection that is combined with manubrial resection, leading to improved airway calibre, obviating the requisition for CPB.
RESULTS: In this study, seven patients with severe MPS IVA exhibited clinical symptoms and radiological evidence indicative of advanced airway obstruction. All patients had a tracheal resection with a partial upper manubriectomy via transcervical approach, which did not require CPB. The surgical cohort consisted of 5 females and 2 males, the median age was 16 years (range 11-19) and the median height was 105.6cm (range 96.4-113.4). Postoperatively, significant improvements were seen in forced expiratory volume in 1 second (FEV1), with a mean increase of 0.68 litres (95% CI: 0.45-0.91; SD: 0.20). Notably, other spirometry variables also showed meaningful improvements, providing evidence of positive treatment effects. Furthermore, there were no major long-term complications, and the procedure resulted in a significant enhancement in patient-reported domains using PedsQL (version 4.0).
CONCLUSIONS: This study represents the largest case series to date, on tracheal resection in patients with severe MPS IVA. Our findings demonstrate the effectiveness of the transcervical approach with partial manubriectomy for improving respiratory function and quality of life for individuals with advanced airway obstruction. Tracheal resection presents a promising treatment modality for severe cases of MPS IVA. Successful outcomes rely on meticulous multidisciplinary assessment, judicious decision-making, and appropriate timing of tracheal surgery. Further research and long-term follow-up studies are warranted to validate the long-term efficacy and safety of this approach.

Citation: Kenth J, et al. Novel approach for tracheal resection in Morquio a syndrome with end-stage critical airway obstruction: a UK case series. Novel approach for tracheal resection in Morquio a syndrome with end-stage critical airway obstruction: a UK case series. 2024; 19:274. doi: 10.1186/s13023-024-03253-3

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/39039523/
