PMID: 39031348
Title: Study of some components of the influence and formation of blood flow in patients with "slow flow".

Abstract: BACKGROUND: "Slow flow" is one very important concept in modern fundamental and clinical biomedicine. Slow coronary flow is indicative of delayed filling of the terminal coronary artery vessels, occurring in the absence of significant coronary stenosis. This group patient of patients exhibits a high incidence of disability and represents a significant financial and material burden for the state and the healthcare system in general.
OBJECTIVE: The primary objective of our study was to examine patients with slow coronary flow.
METHODS: We studied the standard parameters recommended by the international health care system (electrocardiography (by Medica QRS-12, Germany), through the electrical activity of a patient's heart by the electrical impulses (beating) of the heart; HC1(Germany); coagulogramma by Coatron M1 (Germany), troponin by AQT 90 (Germany); general blood test we used automatic human counting device HC1(Germany). Also, we investigate the original parameters (non-standard parameters, which we use in this pilot study) that we were first studied for this diagnosis and non-standard parameters.
RESULTS: A general blood test showed that patients with slow flow had a higher blood leukocyte count than the control group, but the amount of hemoglobin was normal, the hematocrit was much higher than in the control group, and the platelet count was close to the lower limit of clinical standards.We obtained details of blood flow by coagulation situation, such as prothrombin time, prothrombin index, international normalized ratio, activated partial thromboplastin time, thrombin time, fibrinogen, and rheological properties such as index of erythrocyte aggregability, index of erythrocyte deformability, plasma viscosity, in silico blood rheological index.
CONCLUSSION: Blood flow can be considered as a superposition of vortices with similar frequencies and wave vectors that change after bifurcations or other obstacles in the vascular network. These factors together determine the conditions for structuring the flow of moving blood. Disruption or alteration of these factors results in slow flow. It has been found that the speed of blood flow in the coronary arteries depends on changes in the number and function of red blood cells. Slow flow is directly influenced by the aggregation and deformation of red blood cells, their number, and plasma viscosity. Consequently, the rheological status plays a crucial role in determining blood flow and its velocity.

Citation: Gogilashvili N, et al. Study of some components of the influence and formation of blood flow in patients with "slow flow". Study of some components of the influence and formation of blood flow in patients with "slow flow". 2024; (unknown volume):(unknown pages). doi: 10.3233/CH-249104

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/39031348/
