PMID: 39032283
Title: Neuroprotective effect of GJ-4 against cognitive impairments in vascular dementia by improving white matter damage.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: White matter lesions (WMLs) are increasingly linked to the pathological process of chronic vascular dementia (VaD). An effective crocins fraction extracted from Gardenia Fructus, GJ-4, has been shown to improve cognitive function in several Alzheimer's disease models and VaD models.
OBJECTIVES: To explore the potential mechanisms of GJ-4 on WMLs in a chronic VaD mouse model.
METHODS: The chronic VaD mouse model was established, and WMLs were characterized by cerebral blood flow (CBF), behavioral tests, LFB staining, and immunohistochemistry. The anti-oxidative effect of GJ-4 was validated by examining biochemical parameters (SOD, MDA, and GSH) and the Keap1-Nrf2/HO-1 pathway. The impact of GJ-4 on lipid metabolism in WM was further investigated through lipidomic analysis.
RESULTS: GJ-4 significantly attenuated cognitive impairments and improved the CBF of BCAS (bilateral common carotid artery stenosis)-induced mice. Mechanism research showed that GJ-4 could enhance cognition by promoting the repair of WMLs by inhibiting oxidative stress. Furthermore, GJ-4 treatment significantly reduced chronic cerebral hypoperfusion (CCH)-induced WMLs via improving lipid metabolism disorder in the WM.
CONCLUSION: This research has provided valuable insights into the significance of WMLs in CCH-induced VaD and underscored the potential of GJ-4 as a therapeutic agent for improving cognitive function by targeting WMLs. These findings suggest that GJ-4 is a promising candidate for the treatment of VaD.

Citation: Pang QQ, et al. Neuroprotective effect of GJ-4 against cognitive impairments in vascular dementia by improving white matter damage. Neuroprotective effect of GJ-4 against cognitive impairments in vascular dementia by improving white matter damage. 2024; 132:155877. doi: 10.1016/j.phymed.2024.155877

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/39032283/
