PMID: 39039498
Title: Efficacy, safety and mechanism of Simiaoyongan decoction in the treatment of carotid atherosclerotic plaque: a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled clinical trial protocol.

Abstract: INTRODUCTION: Chronic inflammation is the major pathological feature of Atherosclerosis(As). Inflammation may accelerate plaque to develop, which is a key factor resulting in the thinning of the fibrous cap and the vulnerable rupture of plaque. Presently, clinical treatments are still lacking. It is necessary to find a safe and effective treatment for As inflammation. Simiaoyongan Decoction (SMYA) has potential anti-inflammatory and plaque protection effects. This protocol aims to evaluate the efficacy, safety, and mechanism of SMYA for patients with carotid atherosclerotic plaque.
METHODS/DESIGN: The assessment of SMYA clinical trial is designed as a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study. The sample size is 86 cases in total, with 43 participants in the intervention group and the control group respectively. The intervention group takes SMYA, while the control group takes SMYA placebo. The medication lasts for 14 days every 10 weeks, with a total of 50 weeks. We will use carotid artery high resolution magnetic resonance imaging (HR-MRI) to measure plaque. The plaque minimum fiber cap thickness (PMFCT) is adopted as the primary outcome. The secondary outcomes include plaque fiber cap volume, volume percentage of fiber cap, lipid-rich necrotic core (LRNC) volume, volume percentage of LRNC, internal bleeding volume of plaque, internal bleeding volume percentage of plaque, plaque calcification volume, volume percentage of plaque calcification, lumen stenosis rate, average and a maximum of vessel wall thickness, vessel wall volume, total vessel wall load, carotid atherosclerosis score, hs-CRP, IL-1β and IL-6, the level of lipid profiles and blood glucose, blood pressure, and body weight.
DISCUSSION: We anticipate that patients with As plaque will be improved from SMYA by inhibiting inflammation to enhance plaque stability. This study analyzes plaque by using HR-MRI to evaluate the clinical efficacy and safety of SMYA. Moreover, we conduct transcriptome analysis, proteomic analysis, and metagenomic analysis of blood and stool of participants to study the mechanism of SMYA against As plaque. This is the first prospective TCM trial to observe and treat As plaque by inhibiting inflammatory reaction directly. If successful, the finding will be valuable in the treatment of As plaque and drug development, especially in the "statin era".
TRIAL REGISTRATION NUMBER: This trial is registered on Chinese Clinical Trials.gov with number ChiCTR2000039062 on October 15, 2020 ( http://www.chictr.org.cn ).

Citation: Fan Q, et al. Efficacy, safety and mechanism of Simiaoyongan decoction in the treatment of carotid atherosclerotic plaque: a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled clinical trial protocol. Efficacy, safety and mechanism of Simiaoyongan decoction in the treatment of carotid atherosclerotic plaque: a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled clinical trial protocol. 2024; 24:277. doi: 10.1186/s12906-024-04555-6

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/39039498/
