PMID: 39040490
Title: Sargassum polysaccharide attenuates osteoarthritis in rats and is associated with the up-regulation of the ITGβ1-PI3K-AKT signaling pathway.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Osteoarthritis (OA) presents a formidable challenge, characterized by as-yet-unclear mechanical intricacies within cartilage and the dysregulation of bone homeostasis. Our preliminary data revealed the encouraging potential of a Sargassum polysaccharide (SP), in promoting chondrogenesis. The aim of our study is to comprehensively assess the therapeutic effects of SP on OA models and further elucidate its potential mechanism.
METHODS: The protective effects of SP were initially evaluated in an inflammation-induced human chondrocyte (C28) cell model. CCK-8 assays, Alcian blue staining, RT-qPCR and Western blotting were used to verify the chondrogenesis of SP in vitro. To assess the efficacy of SP in vivo, surgically induced medial meniscus destabilization (DMM) OA rats underwent an 8-week SP treatment. The therapeutic effects of SP in OA rats were comprehensively evaluated using X-ray imaging, micro-computed tomography (μ-CT), histopathological analysis, as well as immunohistochemical and immunofluorescent staining. Following these assessments, we delved into the potential signaling pathways of SP in inflammatory chondrocytes utilizing RNA-seq analysis. Validation of these findings was conducted through RT-qPCR and western blotting techniques.
RESULTS: SP significantly enhance the viability of C28 chondrocytes, and increased the secretion of acidic glycoproteins. Moreover, SP stimulated the expression of chondrogenic genes (Aggrecan, Sox9, Col2a1) and facilitated the synthesis of Collagen II protein in C28 inflammatory chondrocytes. In vivo experiments revealed that SP markedly ameliorated knee joint stenosis, alleviated bone and cartilage injuries, and reduced the histopathological scores in the OA rats. μ-CT analysis confirmed that SP lessened bone impairments in the medial femoral condyle and the subchondral bone of the tibial plateau, significantly improving the microarchitectural parameters of the subchondral bone. Histopathological analyses indicated that SP notably enhanced cartilage quality on the surface of the tibial plateau, leading to increased cartilage thickness and area. Immunohistochemistry staining and immunofluorescence staining corroborated these findings by showing a significant promotion of Collagen II expression in OA joints treated with SP. RNA-seq analysis suggest that SP's effects were mediated through the regulation of the ITGβ1-PI3K-AKT signaling axis, thereby stimulating chondrogenesis. Verification through RT-qPCR and Western blot analyses confirmed that SP significantly upregulated the expression of ITGβ1, p110δ, AKT1, ACAN, and Col2a1. Notably, knock-down of ITGβ1 using siRNA in C28 chondrocytes inhibited the expression of ITGβ1, p110δ, AKT1, and ACAN. However, these inhibitory effects were not completely reversed by supplemental SP intervention.
CONCLUSIONS: In summary, our findings reveal that SP significantly enhances chondrogenesis both in vitro and in vivo, alleviating OA progression both in bone and cartilage. The observed beneficial effects are intricately linked to the activation of the ITGβ1-PI3K-AKT signaling axis.
THE TRANSLATIONAL POTENTIAL OF THIS ARTICLE: Our research marks the first instance unveiling the advantageous effects and underlying mechanisms of SP in OA treatment. With its clinical prospects, SP presents compelling new evidence for the advancement of a next-generation polysaccharide drug for OA therapy.

Citation: Liu Y, et al. Sargassum polysaccharide attenuates osteoarthritis in rats and is associated with the up-regulation of the ITGβ1-PI3K-AKT signaling pathway. Sargassum polysaccharide attenuates osteoarthritis in rats and is associated with the up-regulation of the ITGβ1-PI3K-AKT signaling pathway. 2024; 47:176-190. doi: 10.1016/j.jot.2024.06.015

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/39040490/
