PMID: 39047398
Title: Global utilization of biportal spinal endoscopy: Case series on management of lumbar pathology in Soddo, Ethiopia.

Abstract: INTRODUCTION: Biportal spinal endoscopy is a safe and cost-effective methodology for the management of lumbar pathology in rural underserved hospitals that have standard orthopaedic arthroscopic equipment, but lack access to microscopy.
METHODS: This is a case series noting 1-year outcomes from 5 patients managed with biportal spinal endoscopy during an 11-day mission trip to Soddo, Ethiopia in November 2022. Surgical complications, postoperative assessments, and patient-reported outcomes (PROs) were retrospectively collected and analyzed. Surgical techniques and equipment utilized were shared with residents and faculty at the hospital.
RESULTS: Five Ethiopian patients (4:1, female:male) with no prior spine surgery history elected to undergo biportal surgery for the diagnoses of lumbar stenosis and disc herniation, averaging 31 years of age with Body-Mass-Indices (BMI) <35. Two patients underwent endoscopic discectomy, and three patients underwent endoscopic unilateral laminotomy and bilateral decompression (ULBD). There were no complications. No postoperative functional deficits, infections, readmissions, revisions, or wound dehiscences were noted at 12 months follow-up. VAS-back and VAS-leg scores improved to <2/10 for 80 % of patients. All patients returned to work/activities of daily living. No patients required postoperative pain management beyond the 2-week post-operative follow-up.
CONCLUSION: With these five patients, we found that biportal spinal endoscopy can be safely applied in rural hospital settings with limited resources. This supports biportal spinal endoscopy as a viable minimally invasive modality for the management of lumbar pathology. For hospitals with limited resources, but access to arthroscopic equipment, biportal spinal endoscopy is a feasible option.
LEVEL OF EVIDENCE: IV.

Citation: Sheppard WL, et al. Global utilization of biportal spinal endoscopy: Case series on management of lumbar pathology in Soddo, Ethiopia. Global utilization of biportal spinal endoscopy: Case series on management of lumbar pathology in Soddo, Ethiopia. 2024; 122:110046. doi: 10.1016/j.ijscr.2024.110046

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/39047398/
