PMID: 39043584
Title: DRug-coated Balloon for Endovascular treatment of sYmptOmatic intracraNial stenotic Disease (DR. BEYOND): the protocol of a multicentre randomised trial.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Although endovascular stenting is considered an effective and safe therapeutic option for symptomatic intracranial atherosclerotic disease (sICAD), an elevated rate of restenosis remains an important issue for the conventional bare-metal stent (BMS). Recent evidence from observational studies suggests that applying drug-coated balloons (DCB) in sICAD may decrease restenosis occurrence. Additional large randomised studies are warranted to provide firmer evidence and to determine which patients would benefit most from DCB.
AIM: To design a randomised trial to examine DCB angioplasty (Taijieweiye intracranial paclitaxel-coated balloon catheter) versus BMS stenting (Wingspan intracranial stent system) in patients with sICAD.
DESIGN: This is a multicentre, prospective, randomised, open-label, blinded end-point study to assess whether DCB angioplasty reduces the risk of restenosis compared with BMS stenting in sICAD patients with high-grade stenosis (≥70%-99%). Our goal is to randomly assign 198 eligible individuals at a 1:1 ratio to undergo DCB angioplasty (intervention group) or BMS stenting (control group).
OUTCOME: The primary efficacy outcome is restenosis at 6 months post treatment, that is, >50% stenosis in or within 5 mm of the treated segment and >20% absolute luminal loss. The primary safety outcome is stroke or death within 30 days post treatment.
DISCUSSION: The DRug-coated Balloon for Endovascular treatment of sYmptOmatic intracraNial stenotic Disease trial aims to produce strong evidence on the efficacy and safety of DCB angioplasty as a promising therapeutic option for sICAD cases with high-grade stenosis.

Citation: Mo D, et al. DRug-coated Balloon for Endovascular treatment of sYmptOmatic intracraNial stenotic Disease (DR. BEYOND): the protocol of a multicentre randomised trial. DRug-coated Balloon for Endovascular treatment of sYmptOmatic intracraNial stenotic Disease (DR. BEYOND): the protocol of a multicentre randomised trial. 2024; (unknown volume):(unknown pages). doi: 10.1136/svn-2024-003259

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/39043584/
