PMID: 39048379
Title: [A case of a young woman with bilateral medial medullary infarcts caused by varicella-zoster virus vasculopathy without skin rash].

Abstract: The patient, a 36-year-old female, had no previous history of shingles. She was admitted to the hospital due to nausea and lightheadedness. Upon admission, she was diagnosed with bilateral medial medullary infarcts. She received treatment with intravenous edaravone and argatroban, as well as antiplatelet therapy with aspirin and clopidogrel. However, her dysphagia, dysarthria, and paraplegia worsened. Due to changes in the lesion of the basilar artery on brain ‍MRA, we suspected the possibility of basilar artery dissection, and discontinued antiplatelet therapy. Subsequent imaging studies suggested vasculitis. After examining the cerebrospinal fluid, we diagnosed varicella-zoster virus (VZV) vasculopathy. Based on this diagnosis, we administered steroid pulse therapy for three days, started intravenous acyclovir, and resumed antithrombotic therapy with clopidogrel. Prednisone was administered for five days. Biochemical tests revealed an elevated D-dimer level. Due to the presence of lower extremity venous thrombus, clopidogrel was replaced with apixaban. The acyclovir infusion was discontinued due to observed acyclovir-induced neutropenia. These treatments improved neurological symptoms, circumflex thickening of the basilar artery, and contrast effects in the same area. On the 70th day, the patient was transferred to the hospital for rehabilitation. It is important to consider VZV angiopathy as a potential cause of juvenile cerebral infarction accompanying progressive basilar artery stenosis, regardless of the presence or absence of a skin rash.

Citation: Kuzume D, et al. [A case of a young woman with bilateral medial medullary infarcts caused by varicella-zoster virus vasculopathy without skin rash]. [A case of a young woman with bilateral medial medullary infarcts caused by varicella-zoster virus vasculopathy without skin rash]. 2024; 64:583-588. doi: 10.5692/clinicalneurol.cn-001973

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/39048379/
