PMID: 39040916
Title: Asymptomatic Complete Spiral Stent Fracture in Subclavian Artery with Progressive Restenosis in the Early Postoperative Period: A Case Report.

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: Stent fractures may be a risk factor for delayed restenosis, but it is difficult to diagnose asymptomatic stent fractures in the subclavian artery (SCA). We report a rare case of percutaneous transluminal angioplasty and stenting (PTAS) for SCA stenosis with asymptomatic severe stent fracture that showed progressive in-stent stenosis in the early postoperative period.
CASE PRESENTATION: A 70-year-old woman presented with left arm claudication. Magnetic resonance imaging at the time of admission showed SCA stenosis with severe calcification. Because of the left subclavian steal phenomenon on ultrasonography of the left vertebral artery, she underwent PTAS using a balloon-expandable stainless stent. Ultrasonography the day after treatment showed appropriate stent placement. Computed tomography angiography (CTA) 30 days after PTAS showed an asymptomatic complete spiral stent fracture at the mid-portion of the stent. The in-stent stenosis then gradually progressed on follow-up ultrasonography at the site of the stent fracture. Nine months after the first PTAS, a second PTAS using a self-expandable nitinol stent was performed because the peak systolic velocity exceeded 300 cm/s on Doppler ultrasound. Two years after the second PTAS, no neurological symptoms and no stent deformation were observed.
CONCLUSION: PTAS with a balloon-expandable stainless stent for SCA stenosis with severe calcification may lead to stent fracture. In the case of severe stent fracture, careful follow-up may be needed for the detection of asymptomatic in-stent stenosis in the early postoperative period.

Citation: Izawa D, et al. Asymptomatic Complete Spiral Stent Fracture in Subclavian Artery with Progressive Restenosis in the Early Postoperative Period: A Case Report. Asymptomatic Complete Spiral Stent Fracture in Subclavian Artery with Progressive Restenosis in the Early Postoperative Period: A Case Report. 2024; 18:191-196. doi: 10.5797/jnet.cr.2024-0019

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/39040916/
