PMID: 39040793
Title: Transposition of the Great Arteries With Ventricular Septal Defect in a One-Month-Old Infant.

Abstract: Transposition of the great arteries (TGA), also termed complete transposition, is a congenital cardiac defect, and it is subjected to the concordance of the atrioventricular system discordance of the ventriculoarterial (VA) system. Male babies have slightly more preponderance than female babies. In almost half of the cases reported, the discordance in the VA system is the sole finding. In 10% of cases, TGA is often caused by other cardiac deformities, which incorporate defects in the septum of the ventricular chamber and stenosis in the left ventricular outlet. Eventually, these recite the progression, prognosis, and clinical presentation. In most cases, the onset is as soon as the birth. However, it may vary and depend on the difference in the anatomical and functional types, which determine the level of amalgamation between the oxygenated and deoxygenated blood. The etiology of the following condition is still unknown, but this defect is known to have a genetic preponderance. The definitive management of this condition is surgery, but medical management is optional and is prescribed according to the clinical evaluation and includes furosemide. Surgical correction can be performed in the later course of time, ensuring the fitness of the child. The procedure of choice is the arterial switch operation. This case report emphasizes the vital function of extensive critical care of newborns and prompt antenatal screening of high-risk pregnancies. It also highlights the importance of quick healthcare practices for newborns with congenital disabilities.

Citation: Sahasrabhojanee AA, et al. Transposition of the Great Arteries With Ventricular Septal Defect in a One-Month-Old Infant. Transposition of the Great Arteries With Ventricular Septal Defect in a One-Month-Old Infant. 2024; 16:e62888. doi: 10.7759/cureus.62888

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/39040793/
