PMID: 39052515
Title: Intravascular lithotripsy-assisted transfemoral transcatheter aortic valve implantation after failed balloon angioplasty in patients with severe calcified peripheral artery disease.

Abstract: OBJECTIVES: Calcific peripheral artery disease (PAD) is a common finding in patients scheduled for transcatheter aortic valve implantation (TAVI) and often requires iliofemoral axis preparation. However, evidence about the use of intravascular lithotripsy (IVL) in this setting is scarce. The aim of this study was to describe in-hospital and mid-term outcomes of IVL-assisted transfemoral (TF)-TAVI in patients with severe calcific PAD.
METHODS: The study included 13 patients with severe calcified PAD who were initially scheduled for balloon angioplasty (PTA)-assisted TF-TAVI but were eventually treated with peripheral IVL between October 2020 and February 2024. Accurate analysis of preoperative computed tomography scans revealed difficult TF access routes (severe calcified PAD with minimal lumen diameter ≤ 4.5 mm, circumferential calcification along iliofemoral axis, and marked vessels tortuosity).
RESULTS: In all cases, IVL was performed after PTA failure and allowed successful valve delivery. One patient had procedural bleeding (BARC-3a). The valve was successfully delivered without complications in 12 patients (92.3%), and no major adverse events were reported at the longest follow-up (median 18.5 months).
CONCLUSIONS: IVL-assisted TF-TAVI may represent a feasible and safe option for patients presenting with severe aortic stenosis and severe calcified PAD. However, standardization of the access site severity as well as indications for a planned up-front IVL-assisted strategy are missing and require dedicated studies.

Citation: Del Sole PA, et al. Intravascular lithotripsy-assisted transfemoral transcatheter aortic valve implantation after failed balloon angioplasty in patients with severe calcified peripheral artery disease. Intravascular lithotripsy-assisted transfemoral transcatheter aortic valve implantation after failed balloon angioplasty in patients with severe calcified peripheral artery disease. 2024; (unknown volume):(unknown pages). doi: 10.25270/jic/24.00049

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/39052515/
