PMID: 39059160
Title: Efficiency of ear molding for treating constricted ears of different severity.

Abstract: PURPOSE: To investigate the treatment time and efficiency of constricted ears of different severity after correction.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: We included the patients with constricted ear presented to our hospital for treatment between December 2021 and December 2023 in this retrospective analysis. The patients were divided into class I, II and III groups based on the severity of the constriction. Then we collected the data on classification of severity from each patient, together with sex, family history, age at initial correction, being informed upon diagnosis after birth, as well as utilization of auricle correction system. Logistic regression analysis was performed to identify the factors associated with the treatment time and efficiency.
RESULTS: The correction system yielded a high effective rate in the constricted ears. The treatment time in class II was significantly longer compared with those of class I after adjusting these parameters. Compared with the cases of class I, those with a class III showed significant attenuation in the symptoms and conditions (95 % CI: 0.034, 0.365; P < 0.001), after adjusting the age at initial correction, being informed upon diagnosis after birth, and utilization of auricle correction system. There were no statistical differences between class II and III in the treatment efficiency after correction.
CONCLUSIONS: The Amazing Ear Correction System was effective in treating constricted ear, yielding satisfactory treatment efficiency. Patients with class II constriction required longer treatment time compared with those of class I. The treatment outcome in the class I constriction was better than that of class III.

Citation: Zhang L, et al. Efficiency of ear molding for treating constricted ears of different severity. Efficiency of ear molding for treating constricted ears of different severity. 2024; 45:104397. doi: 10.1016/j.amjoto.2024.104397

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/39059160/
