PMID: 39053351
Title: Influence of the pressure wire on the fractional flow reserve calculation: CFD analysis of an ideal vessel and clinical patients with stenosis.

Abstract: BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVE: Fractional Flow Reserve (FFR) is generally considered the gold standard in hemodynamics to assess the impact of a stenosis on the blood flow. The standard procedure to measure involves the displacement of a pressure guide along the circulatory system until it is placed next to the lesion to be analyzed. The main objective of the present study is to analyze the influence of the pressure guide on the invasive FFR measurements and its implications in clinical practice.
METHODS: We studied the influence of pressure wires on the measurement of Fractional Flow Reserve (FFR) through a combination of Computational Fluid Dynamics (CFD) simulations using 45 clinical patient data with 58 lesions and ideal geometries. The analysis is conducted considering patients that were subjected to a computer tomography and also have direct measurements using a pressure guide. Influence of the stenosis severity, degree of occlusion and blood viscosity has also been studied.
RESULTS: The influence of pressure wires specifically affects severe stenosis with a lumen diameter reduction of 50 % or greater. This type of stenosis leads to reduced hyperemic flow and increased coronary pressure drop. Thus, we identified that the placement of wires during FFR measurements results in partial obstruction of the coronary artery lumen, leading to increased pressure drop and subsequent reduction in blood flow. The severity of low FFR values associated with severe stenosis may be prone to overestimation when compared to stenosis without severe narrowing. These results have practical implications, particularly in the interpretation of lesions falling within the "gray zone" (0,75-0,80).
CONCLUSIONS: The pressure wire's presence significantly alters the flow on severe lesions, which has an impact on the FFR calculation. In contrast, the impact of the pressure wire appears to be reduced when the FFR is larger than 0.8. The findings provide critical information for physicians, emphasizing the need for cautious interpretation of FFR values, particularly in severe stenosis. It also offers insights into improving the correlation between FFRct models and invasive measurements by incorporating the influence of pressure wires.

Citation: Otero-Cacho A, et al. Influence of the pressure wire on the fractional flow reserve calculation: CFD analysis of an ideal vessel and clinical patients with stenosis. Influence of the pressure wire on the fractional flow reserve calculation: CFD analysis of an ideal vessel and clinical patients with stenosis. 2024; 255:108325. doi: 10.1016/j.cmpb.2024.108325

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/39053351/
