PMID: 39054171
Title: Intravascular lithotripsy for the treatment of peri-stent calcific lesions in saphenous vein grafts: A case series report.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG) is a cornerstone treatment for coronary artery disease, with the use of saphenous vein grafts (SVGs) being prevalent. However, SVGs are susceptible to high failure rates due to graft inflammation, intimal hyperplasia, and atherosclerosis, leading to a substantial number of patients requiring revascularization. Percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) of SVGs poses unique challenges, including increased risk of distal embolization and perforation due to the grafts' structure and atherosclerotic nature. The role of intravascular lithotripsy (IVL) in calcific SVG lesions has not been elucidated.
METHODS: We retrospectively analyzed four cases of patients treated with IVL for SVG stenosis at Leiden University Medical Centre between May 2019 and December 2023. Quantitative coronary analysis and intravascular ultrasound were utilized to assess procedural success and mid- to long-term clinical outcomes were reported as well.
RESULTS: In all 4 cases, IVL was performed in stent (2 due to calcific in-stent neoatherosclerosis; 2 bail-out due to extrinsic stent calcification). No major adverse cardiovascular events (MACE) were reported during mid- to long-term follow-up. The procedure demonstrated effective calcium cracking, leading to optimal stent expansion and minimal residual stenosis with a low risk of procedural complications.
CONCLUSIONS: IVL represents a promising approach for managing calcified peri-stent SVG lesions, showing potential for safe and effective revascularization with minimal complications. These findings suggest that IVL could be incorporated into the treatment paradigm for calcified peri-stent SVG stenosis, warranting further investigation in larger, prospective studies to validate its efficacy and safety.

Citation: Meijer M, et al. Intravascular lithotripsy for the treatment of peri-stent calcific lesions in saphenous vein grafts: A case series report. Intravascular lithotripsy for the treatment of peri-stent calcific lesions in saphenous vein grafts: A case series report. 2024; (unknown volume):(unknown pages). doi: 10.1016/j.carrev.2024.07.004

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/39054171/
