PMID: 39064050
Title: Percutaneous Transluminal Angioplasty for Atherosclerotic Stenosis of Vertebral Artery Origin.

Abstract: Background: In patients with vertebral artery origin (VAO) stenosis and concomitant stenoses of other cerebral feeding arteries, data on the risk of percutaneous transluminal angioplasty (PTA) alone and with stent placement (PTAS) for VAO stenosis are limited. We aimed to determine how the presence of polystenotic lesions in other cerebral feeding arteries and concomitant carotid artery stenting (CAS) affect the periprocedural risk and long-term effect of PTA/S for atherosclerotic VAO stenosis. Methods: In a retrospective descriptive study, consecutive patients treated with PTA/S for ≥70% VAO stenosis were divided into groups with isolated VAO stenosis and multiple stenoses. We investigated the rate of periprocedural complications in the first 72 h and the risk of restenosis and ischemic stroke (IS)/transient ischemic attack (TIA) during the follow-up period. Results: In a set of 66 patients aged 66.1 ± 9.1 years, polystenotic lesions were present in 56 (84.8%) patients. 21 (31.8%) patients underwent endovascular treatment for stenosis of one or more other arteries in addition to VAO stenosis (15 underwent CAS). During the periprocedural period, no patient suffered from an IS or died, and, in the polystenotic group with concomitant CAS, there was one case of TIA (1.6%). During a mean follow-up period of 36 months, we identified 8 cases (16.3%) of ≥50% asymptomatic VA restenosis, and, in the polystenotic group, 4 (8.9%) cases of IS. Conclusion: The presence of severe polystenotic lesions or concomitant CAS had no adverse effect on the overall low periprocedural risk of PTA/S of VAO stenosis or the risk of restenosis during the follow-up period.

Citation: Krajíčková D, et al. Percutaneous Transluminal Angioplasty for Atherosclerotic Stenosis of Vertebral Artery Origin. Percutaneous Transluminal Angioplasty for Atherosclerotic Stenosis of Vertebral Artery Origin. 2024; 13:(unknown pages). doi: 10.3390/jcm13144010

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/39064050/
