PMID: 39062167
Title: Gray-Scale Median in Patients with Symptomatic and Asymptomatic Carotid Atherosclerosis-Risk Factors and Diagnostic Potential.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: The identification of clinical factors affecting the gray-scale median (GSM) and determination of GSM diagnostic utility for differentiating between symptomatic and asymptomatic internal carotid artery (ICA) stenosis.
METHODS: This study included 45 patients with asymptomatic and 40 patients with symptomatic ICA stenosis undergoing carotid endarterectomy (CEA). Echolucency of carotid plaque was determined using computerized techniques for the GSM analysis. Study groups were compared in terms of clinical risk factors, coexisting comorbidities, and used pharmacotherapy.
RESULTS: Mean GSM values in the symptomatic group were significantly lower than in the asymptomatic group (p &lt; 0.001). Both in the univariate as well as in the multiple regression analysis, GSM was significantly correlated with D-dimers and fasting plasma glucose levels and tended to correlate with β-adrenoceptor antagonist use in the symptomatic group. In asymptomatic patients, GSM was associated with the presence of grade 2 and grade 3 hypertension, and tended to correlate with the use of metformin, sulfonylureas, and statin. Independent factors for GSM in this group remained as grade 3 hypertension and statin's therapy. The receiver operating characteristic (ROC) analysis revealed that GSM differentiated symptomatic from asymptomatic ICA stenosis with sensitivity and specificity of 73% and 80%, respectively.
CONCLUSION: The completely diverse clinical parameters may affect GSM in symptomatic and asymptomatic patients undergoing CEA, whose clinical characteristics were similar in terms of most of the compared parameters. GSM may be a clinically useful parameter for differentiating between symptomatic and asymptomatic ICA stenosis.

Citation: Płoński A, et al. Gray-Scale Median in Patients with Symptomatic and Asymptomatic Carotid Atherosclerosis-Risk Factors and Diagnostic Potential. Gray-Scale Median in Patients with Symptomatic and Asymptomatic Carotid Atherosclerosis-Risk Factors and Diagnostic Potential. 2024; 12:(unknown pages). doi: 10.3390/biomedicines12071594

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/39062167/
