PMID: 39064470
Title: Percutaneous Epidural Neuroplasty for Symptomatic Lumbar Juxtafacet Cysts.

Abstract: Background and Objectives: The term "Juxtafacet cyst" refers to both synovial cysts and ganglion pseudocysts associated with the lumbar facet joint. As conservative treatment for the juxtafacet cyst has a minimal effect, complete excision through surgery is considered the first choice of treatment. In this study, we retrospectively reviewed the clinical outcomes of percutaneous epidural neuroplasty for symptomatic lumbar juxtafacet cysts. Materials and Methods: We conducted a retrospective review of 34 patients with symptomatic juxtafacet cysts who visited a single institute from January 2010 to September 2023. Patients who received conservative treatment for at least 6 weeks but experienced no or insufficient effects were eligible for this study. After neuroplasty, a medical history check and neurological examination were performed during follow-up at 2 weeks, 1 month, 2 months, 3 months, 6 months, and once a year thereafter. Results: The pain improved for all patients to a VAS score of 3 or less immediately after neuroplasty; however, four of those patients (11%) had pain that worsened eventually to the same level as before the procedure and required surgery. The results showed that, regardless of cyst size, in cases with severe stenosis of the spinal canal, the outcome of neuroplasty was poor and often eventually required surgery. The cyst size was not associated with the procedure results. In addition, if the cyst was present at the L4-L5 level, or if diabetes mellitus was present, the likelihood of future surgery was significant (p-value = 0.003). Conclusions: Percutaneous neuroplasty showed a better success rate than other non-surgical treatments. In addition, severe spinal stenosis (Schizas grade C or higher), L4-L5 level, or diabetes mellitus produced a high possibility of surgery due to recurrence.

Citation: Heo J, et al. Percutaneous Epidural Neuroplasty for Symptomatic Lumbar Juxtafacet Cysts. Percutaneous Epidural Neuroplasty for Symptomatic Lumbar Juxtafacet Cysts. 2024; 60:(unknown pages). doi: 10.3390/medicina60071042

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/39064470/
