PMID: 39061098
Title: A retrospective analysis of transudative pleural effusion due to fibrosing mediastinitis.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Pleural effusion caused by fibrosing mediastinitis is rarely reported. This study aimed to summarize the clinical manifestations, diagnosis and treatment of transudative pleural effusion due to fibrosing mediastinitis.
METHODS: Medical records and follow-up data of 7 patients with transudative pleural effusion due to fibrosing mediastinitis in Beijing Chaoyang Hospital between May 2014 and Feb 2018 were retrospectively analyzed.
RESULTS: These patients included 4 males and 3 females, with an average age of (64 ± 9) years. There were 3 left-sided effusions, 2 right-sided effusions and 2 bilateral effusions. Previous or latent tuberculosis was found in 6 patients. Pulmonary hypertension was indicated by echocardiography in all the 7 patients. Computed tomography pulmonary angiography (CTPA) of all the 7 cases showed increased soft tissue images visible in the mediastinum and bilateral hilus, different degrees of stenosis or occlusion in the pulmonary artery and pulmonary vein. In addition, 4 cases were found of right middle lobe atelectasis with a mediastinal window setting. There was interstitial pulmonary edema on the side of pleural effusion with a lung window setting. All the 7 patients were treated with intermittent drainage of pleural effusion combined with diuretic therapy. Five patients were treated with antituberculosis therapy. Up to now, two patients died of right heart failure and respiratory failure after 2 and 16 months respectively; The remaining 5 patients were still in follow up.
CONCLUSION: Fibrosing mediastinitis can lead to pulmonary vein stenosis or occlusion, and thus cause transudative pleural effusion, which can be detected by CTPA. Pulmonary hypertension, long time of cough, and a history of tuberculosis are common in these patients. The common therapy is intermittent drainage of pleural effusion combined with diuretic therapy.

Citation: Yu YX, et al. A retrospective analysis of transudative pleural effusion due to fibrosing mediastinitis. A retrospective analysis of transudative pleural effusion due to fibrosing mediastinitis. 2024; 19:467. doi: 10.1186/s13019-024-02972-9

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/39061098/
