PMID: 39078578
Title: Behcet's disease presenting as malignant hypertension induced by renovascular hypertension.

Abstract: Hypertension is an uncommon manifestation of Behcet's disease, which is also an uncommon cause of renovascular hypertension. We herein report a case of malignant hypertension associated with unilateral renal artery stenosis due to vascular Behcet's disease. A 19-year-old man, who had no significant medical history, was referred to ophthalmology at our hospital because he was suspected to have uveitis and Vogt-Koyanagi-Harada syndrome. In addition to poor eyesight, he had been aware of a fever, loss of appetite, and weight loss for a month. He was admitted with markedly elevated blood pressure (222/140 mmHg), hypertensive retinopathy, and acute kidney injury, who was diagnosed with malignant hypertension. Laboratory findings showed high plasma renin activity and plasma aldosterone concentration, hypokalemia, and elevated inflammatory response. Computed tomography showed an atrophic right kidney and a compensatorily enlarged left kidney. Renal computed tomography angiography revealed severe and diffuse stenosis of the right renal artery, and stenosis of the ostium of celiac artery. Since he was suspected to have uveitis and his inflammatory responses were elevated on admission, we listed Behcet's disease as a differential diagnosis. Medical interview and examination focusing on Behcet's disease revealed that the patient had recurrent oral aphthous lesions and folliculitis, and a positive pathergy test, which led to the patient being diagnosed with vascular Behcet's disease. After admission, his blood pressure was well controlled with multiple antihypertensive drugs including an angiotensin receptor/neprilysin inhibitor, and his oral aphthous lesions and skin lesion were improved with colchicine. When young men who are at a higher risk for vascular Behcet's disease show renovascular hypertension with an elevated inflammatory reaction, vascular Behcet's disease should be considered as a differential diagnosis.

Citation: Kinguchi S, et al. Behcet's disease presenting as malignant hypertension induced by renovascular hypertension. Behcet's disease presenting as malignant hypertension induced by renovascular hypertension. 2024; (unknown volume):(unknown pages). doi: 10.1007/s13730-024-00918-7

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/39078578/
