PMID: 39074977
Title: Back to Bernoulli: a simple formula for trans-stenotic pressure gradients and retrospective estimation of flow rates in cerebral venous disease.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Venous sinus stenosis can be associated with cerebrovascular disorders. Understanding the role of blood flow disturbances in these disorders is often hampered by the lack of patient-specific flow rates. Our goal was to demonstrate the impact of this by predicting individual flow rates retrospectively from routine manometry and angiography.
METHODS: Ten cases, spanning a range of stenosis severities and pressure gradients, were selected from a cohort of patients who had undergone venous stenting for pulsatile tinnitus. Lumen geometries were digitally segmented from CT venograms. A simplified Bernoulli formula was derived to estimate individual cycle-average flow rates from clinical pressure gradients and minimum lumen cross-section areas. High-fidelity pulsatile computational fluid dynamics (CFD) simulations were performed to compare predictions of flow disturbances using generic versus individual flow rates, and to validate the Bernoulli formula.
RESULTS: Individual flow rates derived from the Bernoulli formula deviated by up to 47% from the assumed generic flow rate, resulting in substantial differences in CFD predictions of post-stenotic flow instabilities. Pressure gradients estimated by the simplified Bernoulli formula were, however, highly predictive of pressure gradients from the full CFD simulations (R2=0.95; slope=0.98, 95% CI 0.88 to 1.09).
CONCLUSIONS: A simple Bernoulli formula can predict CFD-estimated trans-stenotic pressure gradients in realistic venous geometries. As demonstrated here, this may be used to recover individual flow rates from routine-but-invasive clinical measurements; however, it also suggests a simpler path towards non-invasive estimation of trans-stenotic pressure gradients that may avoid some of the challenges associated with 4D flow MRI approaches.

Citation: Sidora G, et al. Back to Bernoulli: a simple formula for trans-stenotic pressure gradients and retrospective estimation of flow rates in cerebral venous disease. Back to Bernoulli: a simple formula for trans-stenotic pressure gradients and retrospective estimation of flow rates in cerebral venous disease. 2024; (unknown volume):(unknown pages). doi: 10.1136/jnis-2024-022074

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/39074977/
