PMID: 39077185
Title: Associations between Mitral Annular and Left Atrial Volume Changes in Healthy Adults-Detailed Analysis from the Three-Dimensional Speckle-Tracking Echocardiographic MAGYAR-Healthy Study.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Three-dimensional (3D) speckle-tracking echocardiography (3DSTE) is one of the newest development in non-invasive imaging offering simultaneous 3D evaluation of atria and valvular annuli. 3DSTE was used to analyze correlations between left atrial (LA) volume changes and mitral annular (MA) dimensions and functional properties in healthy adult subjects.
METHODS: A total of 297 healthy subjects were enrolled in this retrospective cohort study, from which insufficient quality of images was responsible for the exclusion of 98 cases (33%). The remaining study population consisted of 199 healthy adults without valvular regurgitation/stenosis in sinus rhythm (mean age: 33.5 ± 12.7 years, 104 males, body mass index: 24.7 ± 1.2 kg/ m 2  , systolic and diastolic blood pressure: 118.2 ± 3.4 mmHg and 78.3 ± 4.5 mmHg, respectively). Two-dimensional Doppler echocardiography and 3DSTE were performed in all cases.
RESULTS: Larger LA volumes were associated with more dilated MA dimensions with its reduced function. Elevated LA stroke volumes could be demonstrated only in systole and end-diastole, while increased LA emptying fraction was present only in end-diastole. Reduced MA fractional area change was associated with larger diastolic LA volumes, smaller early diastolic LA stroke volume, in addition all LA emptying fractions were smaller as well. Correlations could be demonstrated between LA and MA parameters.
CONCLUSIONS: 3DSTE is suitable not only for chamber quantifications, but also for the assessment of valvular annular dimensions. Strong relationship exists between LA volumes and MA dimensions and functional properties.

Citation: Nemes A, et al. Associations between Mitral Annular and Left Atrial Volume Changes in Healthy Adults-Detailed Analysis from the Three-Dimensional Speckle-Tracking Echocardiographic MAGYAR-Healthy Study. Associations between Mitral Annular and Left Atrial Volume Changes in Healthy Adults-Detailed Analysis from the Three-Dimensional Speckle-Tracking Echocardiographic MAGYAR-Healthy Study. 2022; 23:194. doi: 10.31083/j.rcm2306194

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/39077185/
