PMID: 39076466
Title: Application of Bovine Pericardium and Expanded Polytetrafluoroethylene Patches in Tricuspid Valvuloplasty after Cardiac Surgery.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Leaflet augmentation is often required to correct an inadequate leaflet size due to leaflet thickening, contracture and junctional fusion in patients with tricuspid valve regurgitation (TR) after left-side valve surgery (LSVS). However, the ideal material for leaflet augmentation remains controversial. This article aims to compare the medium- and long-term results of tricuspid valve repair with bovine pericardium (BP) and expanded Polytetrafluoroethylene (ePTFE) patches for the augmentation of tricuspid leaflets and to compare the durability of the two materials.
METHODS: From January 2015 to April 2023, a total of 69 patients with severe isolated TR underwent tricuspid valvuloplasty (TVP) by leaflets augmentation with patches in our institute. According to the different types of patches, they were divided into the BP group (n = 44) and the ePTFE group (n = 25).
RESULTS: There were 3 perioperative deaths (4.3%), one case was due to low cardiac output syndrome in the BP group, and 2 cases were due to acute respiratory dysfunction syndrome and low cardiac output syndrome in the ePTFE group, respectively. Before discharge, the area of the TR jet on echocardiography decreased from 23.5 ± 9.1 to 4.2 ± 3.4 cm 2  . One case in each group was found to have increased blood flow velocity at the tricuspid orifice. After discharge, one patient in each group underwent repeat TVP, in the BP group because of shortened chordae and in the ePTFE group because of calcification of the patch. During the entire follow-up period, there were 7 cases of severe TR (10.1%), 5 in the BP group and 2 in the ePTFE group, a total of 5 cases of tricuspid stenosis (7.2%), 4 in the BP group and 1 in the ePTFE group, and a total of 6 deaths (8.7%), 5 in the BP group and 1 in the ePTFE group. Transthoracic ultrasound in a patient with tricuspid stenosis suggests stiff leaflet movement and poor motion.
CONCLUSIONS: Leaflet patch enlargement can be safely used in tricuspid valve repair, but BP patches carry a risk of reduced flexibility and stiffness of movement, and ePTFE patches carries a risk of calcification.

Citation: Xiao S, et al. Application of Bovine Pericardium and Expanded Polytetrafluoroethylene Patches in Tricuspid Valvuloplasty after Cardiac Surgery. Application of Bovine Pericardium and Expanded Polytetrafluoroethylene Patches in Tricuspid Valvuloplasty after Cardiac Surgery. 2024; 25:188. doi: 10.31083/j.rcm2505188

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/39076466/
