PMID: 39077121
Title: What You Always Wanted to Know about Endovascular Therapy in Acute Ischemic Stroke but Never Dared to Ask: A Comprehensive Review.

Abstract: In 2015, mechanical thrombectomy (MT) in combination with intravenous thrombolysis was demonstrated to be superior to best medical treatment alone in patients with anterior circulation stroke. This finding resulted in an unprecedented boost in endovascular stroke therapy, and MT became widely available. MT was initially approved for patients presenting with large vessel occlusion in the anterior circulation (intracranial internal carotid artery or proximal middle cerebral artery) within a 6-hour time window. Eventually, it was shown to be beneficial in a broader group of patients, including those without known symptom-onset, wake-up stroke, or patients with posterior circulation stroke. Technical developments and the implementation of novel thrombectomy devices further facilitated endovascular recanalization for acute ischemic stroke. However, some aspects remain controversial. Is MT suitable for medium or very distal vessel occlusions? Should emergency stenting be performed for symptomatic stenosis or recurrent occlusion? How should patients with large vessel occlusion without disabling symptoms be treated? Do certain patients benefit from MT without intravenous thrombolysis? In the era of personalized decision-making, some of these questions require an individualized approach based on comorbidities, imaging criteria, and the severity or duration of symptoms. Despite its successful development in the past decade, endovascular stroke therapy will remain a challenging and fascinating field in the years to come. This review aims to provide an overview of patient selection, and the indications for and execution of MT in patients with acute ischemic stroke.

Citation: Bücke P, et al. What You Always Wanted to Know about Endovascular Therapy in Acute Ischemic Stroke but Never Dared to Ask: A Comprehensive Review. What You Always Wanted to Know about Endovascular Therapy in Acute Ischemic Stroke but Never Dared to Ask: A Comprehensive Review. 2022; 23:340. doi: 10.31083/j.rcm2310340

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/39077121/
