PMID: 39071076
Title: Atropine as an Adjunct in the Management of Pediatric Patients With Hypertrophic Pyloric Stenosis: A Single Institution Experience and Review of the Literature.

Abstract: Infantile hypertrophic pyloric stenosis (IHPS) is a condition whereby there is a thickening of the pyloric muscle, leading to obstruction of the gastric outflow. Typically present within three to five weeks of life, it presents as postprandial non-bilious projectile vomiting. Commonly, a pyloromyotomy is the gold standard to relieve the obstruction. However, in a subset of patients not amenable to undergo surgery or anesthesia, or for postoperative persistent or recurrent obstruction, atropine may offer an alternative treatment. A retrospective review was performed on pediatric patients with hypertrophic pyloric stenosis utilizing the electronic medical record. Data included were demographics, workup data, treatment, outcomes, and symptom resolution. Approval was obtained by the institutional review board of the host institution. Five pediatric patients, with an average age of 2.1 months, received atropine treatment for IHPS. The average time to reach full feeds since the initiation of atropine was approximately four days. Three of the five patients were successfully managed with IV atropine, which was then transitioned to oral atropine and tapered off as outpatients, leading to the resolution of symptoms. The remaining two patients were considered failures of medical management and subsequently required surgery. Atropine use as an alternative treatment for IHPS may be considered when patients are not able to undergo surgery or anesthesia or have recurrent or persistent obstructive symptoms postoperatively. In this limited study, atropine was found to be safe and effective. Randomized controlled studies may lend additional merit to this therapy in the future.

Citation: Lu C, et al. Atropine as an Adjunct in the Management of Pediatric Patients With Hypertrophic Pyloric Stenosis: A Single Institution Experience and Review of the Literature. Atropine as an Adjunct in the Management of Pediatric Patients With Hypertrophic Pyloric Stenosis: A Single Institution Experience and Review of the Literature. 2024; 16:e65363. doi: 10.7759/cureus.65363

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/39071076/
