PMID: 39084496
Title: A three-dimensional valve-on-chip microphysiological system implicates cell cycle progression, cholesterol metabolism and protein homeostasis in early calcific aortic valve disease progression.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Calcific aortic valve disease (CAVD) is one of the most common forms of valvulopathy, with a 50 % elevated risk of a fatal cardiovascular event, and greater than 15,000 annual deaths in North America alone. The treatment standard is valve replacement as early diagnostic, mitigation, and drug strategies remain underdeveloped. The development of early diagnostic and therapeutic strategies requires the fabrication of effective in vitro valve mimetic models to elucidate early CAVD mechanisms.
METHODS: In this study, we developed a multilayered physiologically relevant 3D valve-on-chip (VOC) system that incorporated aortic valve mimetic extracellular matrix (ECM), porcine aortic valve interstitial cell (VIC) and endothelial cell (VEC) co-culture and dynamic mechanical stimuli. Collagen and glycosaminoglycan (GAG) based hydrogels were assembled in a bilayer to mimic healthy or diseased compositions of the native fibrosa and spongiosa. Multiphoton imaging and proteomic analysis of healthy and diseased VOCs were performed.
RESULTS: Collagen-based bilayered hydrogel maintained the phenotype of the VICs. Proteins related to cellular processes like cell cycle progression, cholesterol biosynthesis, and protein homeostasis were found to be significantly altered and correlated with changes in cell metabolism in diseased VOCs. This study suggested that diseased VOCs may represent an early, adaptive disease initiation stage, which was corroborated by human aortic valve proteomic assessment.
CONCLUSIONS: In this study, we developed a collagen-based bilayered hydrogel to mimic healthy or diseased compositions of the native fibrosa and spongiosa layers. When the gels were assembled in a VOC with VECs and VICs, the diseased VOCs revealed key insights about the CAVD initiation process.
STATEMENT OF SIGNIFICANCE: Calcific aortic valve disease (CAVD) elevates the risk of death due to cardiovascular pathophysiology by 50 %, however, prevention and mitigation strategies are lacking, clinically. Developing tools to assess early disease would significantly aid in the prevention of disease and in the development of therapeutics. Previously, studies have utilized collagen and glycosaminoglycan-based hydrogels for valve cell co-cultures, valve cell co-cultures in dynamic environments, and inorganic polymer-based multilayered hydrogels; however, these approaches have not been combined to make a physiologically relevant model for CAVD studies. We fabricated a bi-layered hydrogel that closely mimics the aortic valve and used it for valve cell co-culture in a dynamic platform to gain mechanistic insights into the CAVD initiation process using proteomic and multiphoton imaging assessment.

Citation: Tandon I, et al. A three-dimensional valve-on-chip microphysiological system implicates cell cycle progression, cholesterol metabolism and protein homeostasis in early calcific aortic valve disease progression. A three-dimensional valve-on-chip microphysiological system implicates cell cycle progression, cholesterol metabolism and protein homeostasis in early calcific aortic valve disease progression. 2024; 186:167-184. doi: 10.1016/j.actbio.2024.07.036

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/39084496/
