PMID: 39082375
Title: Coronary angiography following transcatheter aortic valve replacement: Insights from the SWEDEHEART registry.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Transcatheter aortic valve replacement (TAVR) is the most common treatment in patients with symptomatic severe aortic stenosis (AS). As concomitant coronary artery disease is common in AS patients, access to the coronary arteries following TAVR is of increasing importance.
OBJECTIVES: This study evaluated the incidence and risk factors for unplanned coronary angiography following TAVR and, using fluoroscopic time as a surrogate, analyzed the complexity of coronary artery cannulation.
METHODS: All patients who underwent TAVR in Sweden between 2008 and 2022 were identified using the SWEDEHEART registry. The cumulative incidence of coronary angiography after TAVR was analyzed with mortality as a competing risk. Angiography and PCI complexity were analyzed using fluoroscopic time and compared across different transcatheter heart valve designs.
RESULTS: Out of 9806 patients, 566 subsequently required coronary angiography. The incidence was highest for three-vessel and/or left main disease. Younger age, the extent of prior coronary artery disease, and peripheral vascular disease were associated with an increased risk of coronary angiography. Fluoroscopy time was increased in TAVR patients compared to the control group with the longest fluoroscopy times observed in cases involving supra-annular and self-expanding valves.
CONCLUSIONS: The incidence of coronary angiography following TAVR is still low. Younger patients and patients with concomitant coronary artery disease have a higher risk. Procedural time is longer in patients with a previous THV replacement. As TAVR is emerging as the first-line treatment in patients with longer life expectancy, facilitating coronary access is an important factor when considering which THV device to implant.

Citation: Louca A, et al. Coronary angiography following transcatheter aortic valve replacement: Insights from the SWEDEHEART registry. Coronary angiography following transcatheter aortic valve replacement: Insights from the SWEDEHEART registry. 2024; 104:570-582. doi: 10.1002/ccd.31171

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/39082375/
