PMID: 39087347
Title: HCC-1 Accelerates Atherosclerosis by Inducing Endothelial Cell and Macrophage Pyroptosis and Serves as an Early Diagnostic Biomarker.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: HCC-1 (hemofiltrate CC chemokine-1), a CC-type chemokine, exerts function to change intracellular calcium concentration, induce leukocyte, and manipulate enzyme release especially in monocytes. It has been reported that HCC-1 can predict the persistent acute kidney injury or suppress hepatocellular carcinoma by modulating cell cycle and promoting apoptosis; however, the effect of HCC-1 on atherosclerosis is poorly understood. Here, we aimed to clarify the function and mechanism of HCC-1 in atherosclerosis and whether it could serve as a novel biomarker for the diagnosis of atherosclerosis.
METHODS: HCC-1 expression in serum, atherosclerotic plaques, and normal arterial tissue from patients with atherosclerosis and control group was assessed by ELISA, immunohistochemistry and confocal microscope, and bioinformatic analysis. The atherosclerotic model of HCC-1 overexpressing and control mice was generated by tail vein injection of adeno-associated virus serotype 9-HCC-1 on an ApoE-/- background. Cell adhesion, polarization, and pyroptosis were evaluated in vitro. The relationship between HCC-1 concentration in serum and atherosclerosis was analyzed in patients with atherosclerosis.
RESULTS: HCC-1 expression was positively correlated with the occurrence and stable-unstable switch of atherosclerosis under bioinformatic analysis, which is further supported by the results of increased HCC-1 expression in atherosclerosis patients both in serum and atherosclerotic plaque. adeno-associated virus serotype 9-HCC-1 mice had higher levels of inflammatory factors, increased macrophage accumulation and pyroptotic rate in plaque, and decreased atherosclerotic plaque stability. In vitro, HCC-1 promoted monocyte adhesion and M1 polarization and induced inflammation and pyroptosis both in endothelial cells and macrophages.
CONCLUSIONS: HCC-1 expression was increased in patients with atherosclerosis, and HCC-1 overexpression accelerated atherosclerotic burden via an enhancement in monocyte recruitment, M1 polarization, and pyroptosis both in endothelial cells and macrophages. Our findings suggested that HCC-1 may serve as an early biomarker for the diagnosis of atherosclerosis, with the capacity to reflect the degree of stenosis.

Citation: Bu F, et al. HCC-1 Accelerates Atherosclerosis by Inducing Endothelial Cell and Macrophage Pyroptosis and Serves as an Early Diagnostic Biomarker. HCC-1 Accelerates Atherosclerosis by Inducing Endothelial Cell and Macrophage Pyroptosis and Serves as an Early Diagnostic Biomarker. 2024; 44:2088-2107. doi: 10.1161/ATVBAHA.124.321007

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/39087347/
