PMID: 39081399
Title: A young woman presenting with dyspnoea and diffuse T-wave inversions: a case report.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: T-wave inversions on electrocardiograms (ECGs) indicate a variety of conditions, such as coronary artery disease, myocarditis, and cardiomyopathy. Pulmonary artery stenosis (PAS) and pulmonary hypertension (PH) may cause right ventricular enlargement and ischaemia, which are reflected as T-wave inversions on ECGs. Continuous ECG monitoring is crucial for detecting dynamic changes indicative of PAS progression and reversal in right heart remodelling.
CASE SUMMARY: This report presents the case of a young woman who experienced exertional dyspnoea for 5 years with ECG findings showing T-wave inversions across multiple leads. The patient was diagnosed with PAS and PH caused by Takayasu arteritis (TA). Following three successful balloon pulmonary angioplasty sessions, the patient exhibited significant clinical improvement, including the remission of PAS and PH. Throughout a 59-month cumulative follow-up period, the sustained effectiveness of the treatment was evidenced by the regression of right heart remodelling, as manifested in the normalization of the initially inverted T-waves on the ECG.
DISCUSSION: Electrocardiogram changes, including right axis deviation, right bundle branch block, a deep S wave in lead I (R/S < 1), and a prominent R wave in lead aVR (R/Q > 1), have been termed PAS syndrome, often linked to TA-associated PAS, especially in young East Asian females. Early diagnosis is crucial but challenging due to atypical symptoms. The non-invasive ECG is vital for detection, with balloon pulmonary angioplasty serving as an effective treatment for TA-induced PAS when surgery is not an option, improving outcomes and potentially reversing right heart remodelling.

Citation: Dong W, et al. A young woman presenting with dyspnoea and diffuse T-wave inversions: a case report. A young woman presenting with dyspnoea and diffuse T-wave inversions: a case report. 2024; 8:ytae342. doi: 10.1093/ehjcr/ytae342

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/39081399/
