PMID: 39086701
Title: Left Ventricle Myocardial Work Correlated with Functional Capacity in Severe Rheumatic Mitral Stenosis with Preserved Left Ventricular Ejection Fraction.

Abstract: BACKGROUND AND AIMS: Functional capacity is reduced in mitral stenosis (MS) patients. Previous studies showed a correlation between left atrial strain and functional capacity in this population. However, currently, no left ventricle (LV) echocardiographic parameters were associated with functional capacity in patients with MS. Noninvasive LV pressure-strain loop analysis is a new echocardiographic method for evaluating LV function, integrating longitudinal strain from speckle-tracking analysis and noninvasively measured blood pressure to estimate myocardial work (MW) that overcomes the preload-dependent characteristics conventional parameters by integrating afterload. This study aimed to evaluate the association between MW and functional capacity measured using exercise tests in patients with severe MS and preserved LV ejection fraction (LVEF).
METHODS: Adult patients with symptomatic severe rheumatic MS (mitral valve area &lt;1.5 cm2), and preserved LVEF (&gt;50%) and sinus rhythm who underwent echocardiography and exercise stress test in our hospital from 2019 to 2021 were included. Exclusion criteria were suboptimal image quality for myocardial deformation analysis, significant mitral regurgitation or aortic valve lesions, coronary artery disease, intracardiac shunt, and atrial fibrillation. Standard echocardiographic parameters were measured, and all MW parameters were included. Exercise treadmill testing was performed using the modified Bruce protocol.
RESULTS: A total of 33 individuals with isolated severe rheumatic MS in sinus rhythm (age 39.8 ± 9.8 years) were included in the study. Patients with severe isolated MS showed significantly impaired LV-global longitudinal strain values compared to normal reference values. Furthermore, patients with severe MS showed significantly lower values of global work index, global constructive work, and efficiency compared to normal values and higher wasted work. Global work efficiency was significantly correlated to the duration of exercise (P = 0.025, Pearson's r = 0.389).
CONCLUSIONS: In stable patients with isolated severe mitral stenosis, MW efficiency significantly correlated with functional capacity measured objectively through exercise testing.

Citation: Rudiktyo E, et al. Left Ventricle Myocardial Work Correlated with Functional Capacity in Severe Rheumatic Mitral Stenosis with Preserved Left Ventricular Ejection Fraction. Left Ventricle Myocardial Work Correlated with Functional Capacity in Severe Rheumatic Mitral Stenosis with Preserved Left Ventricular Ejection Fraction. 2024; 34:57-62. doi: 10.4103/jcecho.jcecho_14_24

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/39086701/
