PMID: 39094938
Title: The Effect of Global Spinal Alignment on Cervical Degeneration in Patients with Degenerative Lumbar Scoliosis.

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: To elucidate the effect of global spinal alignment on cervical degeneration in patients with degenerative lumbar scoliosis (DLS).
METHODS: This study included 117 patients with DLS and 42 patients with lumbar spinal stenosis as a control group. Patients with DLS (study group) were categorized according to the Scoliosis Research Society-Schwab classification. Spinopelvic parameters were measured in cervical and full-length spine radiographs. Cervical degeneration was assessed using the cervical degeneration index (CDI) scoring system.
RESULTS: There were significant differences in C2-C7 sagittal vertical axis, T1 slope, thoracic kyphosis, lumbar lordosis (LL), and pelvic tilt between DLS and control groups. Although the DLS and control groups did not differ significantly with regard to CDI scores, a striking difference was noted when sagittal spinopelvic modifiers were considered individually. Patients with a pelvic incidence (PI)-LL mismatch modifier grade of ++ had significantly higher CDI scores than patients with grade 0, and patients with a PI-LL or sagittal vertical axis modifier grade of ++ had significantly higher CDI scores than the control group. Disk narrowing scores were highest in patients with a PI-LL modifier grade of ++ followed by patients with a grade of +. Additionally, CDI scores were more associated with LL rather than cervical lordosis.
CONCLUSIONS: Patients with DLS may be at greater risk of cervical spine degeneration, especially patients with a PI-LL or sagittal vertical axis modifier grade of ++. A surgical strategy for patients with DLS should be carefully selected considering the restoration of LL.

Citation: Shang Z, et al. The Effect of Global Spinal Alignment on Cervical Degeneration in Patients with Degenerative Lumbar Scoliosis. The Effect of Global Spinal Alignment on Cervical Degeneration in Patients with Degenerative Lumbar Scoliosis. 2024; 190:e595-e603. doi: 10.1016/j.wneu.2024.07.188

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/39094938/
