PMID: 39090433
Title: Clinical presentation and surgical outcomes in patients with Shone's complex: a systematic review.

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: Shone's complex comprises of a combination of congenital cardiac anomalies causing obstructions in the left ventricle's inflow and outflow tracts. This systematic review aims to evaluate the clinical features and surgical outcomes of Shone's complex.
METHODS: An electronic literature search of PubMed and Scopus was performed to identify relevant studies related to the presentation, management, and outcomes of Shone's complex. Two reviewers independently performed selection. Data on study characteristics, participant demographics, interventions, outcomes, and follow-up durations were extracted and analyzed.
RESULTS: A total of 691 papers were identified, with 18 studies included in the final analysis. The majority of the studies (n = 12) focused on the pediatric age group. The most common clinical presentations were coarctation of the aorta (n = 17) and mitral stenosis (n = 12). Surgical interventions often involved staged approaches, prioritizing outflow before inflow obstructions. Mitral valve repair was preferred over replacement due to better long-term outcomes (n = 8). Biventricular repair was recommended due to improved postoperative outcomes, but often needed reoperations. Reoperations were common, primarily due to recurrent coarctation (n = 10), subaortic stenosis (n = 8), and mitral valve dysfunction (n = 7). Pulmonary hypertension (n = 10) and arrhythmias (n = 11) were significant complications. Most patients were in modified Ross/NYHA functional class 1 on follow-up. Mortality rates ranged from 4 to 28%, with better outcomes associated with early and strategic surgical interventions.
CONCLUSION: Early diagnosis and biventricular repair were associated with better outcomes while transplantation was often an eventuality. Standardized diagnostic criteria, long-term follow-up, and consensus guidelines are needed to improve the management of this congenital heart disease.

Citation: Ahmed HS, et al. Clinical presentation and surgical outcomes in patients with Shone's complex: a systematic review. Clinical presentation and surgical outcomes in patients with Shone's complex: a systematic review. 2024; 72:621-640. doi: 10.1007/s11748-024-02067-1

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/39090433/
