PMID: 39102751
Title: Mechanical compression of the carotid artery by the pharynx in the retropharyngeal space during swallowing and the induction of stenosis and embolic stroke: illustrative case.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Compression of the carotid artery (CA) by hyoid bony structures, such as the hyoid bone and thyroid cartilage, during swallowing or neck rotation can induce stroke. However, no reports have described ischemic stroke caused by mechanical compression of the CA by the pharynx during swallowing.
OBSERVATIONS: A man with left CA stenosis developed recurrent ischemic stroke in his left hemisphere. Computed tomography angiography of the neck showed that the left common carotid artery was trapped by the hyoid bone and thyroid cartilage and that the internal carotid artery (ICA) ran in the retropharyngeal space. Angiography during swallowing of a contrast agent showed dynamic compression of the left CA posterolaterally by the pharynx during swallowing, despite the fact that the CA on the healthy right side moved anteromedially. The retropharyngeal ICA was then transposed to its normal location and endarterectomy was performed. No ischemic events occurred postoperatively, and angiography showed that the left CA now moved anteromedially during swallowing.
LESSONS: Movement of the pharynx during swallowing can be a risk factor for CA stenosis. It is important to evaluate the anatomical interaction between the CA and surrounding structures, as well as their dynamics, to ensure appropriate diagnosis and treatment. https://thejns.org/doi/10.3171/CASE2483.

Citation: Suematsu T, et al. Mechanical compression of the carotid artery by the pharynx in the retropharyngeal space during swallowing and the induction of stenosis and embolic stroke: illustrative case. Mechanical compression of the carotid artery by the pharynx in the retropharyngeal space during swallowing and the induction of stenosis and embolic stroke: illustrative case. 2024; 8:(unknown pages). doi: 10.3171/CASE2483

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/39102751/
