PMID: 39100586
Title: Simultaneous Transcatheter Aortic and Mitral Native Valve Replacement: A Step-by-Step Procedural Approach.

Abstract: Multivalvular heart disease (MVHD) is present in one-third of patients with valvular heart disease (VHD). Compared to single VHD patients, these patients have a more significant hemodynamic impact and are often left under medical treatment. Most importantly, when undergoing multiple valve interventions, they show worse rates of heart failure and mortality. The guidelines-supported interventions in patients with MVHD in combined aortic regurgitation and mitral stenosis include percutaneous mitral balloon commissurotomy, open mitral commissurotomy, or surgical mitral valve replacement followed by transcatheter or surgical aortic valve replacement, trying to minimize the increased mortality risk of double-valve replacement. Simultaneous transcatheter valve replacement (STVR) for native MVHD is still off-label and not yet considered in clinical guidelines since the evidence of its results is limited to a few cases reported worldwide. However, fully percutaneous transfemoral STVR seems promising for MVHD patients thanks to its minimal invasiveness, the continuous improvement of the transcatheter heart valve devices, the likely shorter length of stay and the fastest recovery. To our knowledge, this is the first case ever reported of fully percutaneous STVR for native MVHD in aortic regurgitation and mitral stenosis. Deep understanding of both pathologies and their interactions, not only from a pathological point of view but from the procedural planning and procedural steps point of view is mandatory. Hereby we present the specific STVR procedural planning considerations, a step-by-step guide on how to perform an aortic and mitral STVR and its critical considerations, as well as the procedural and follow-up results.

Citation: Farjat-Pasos JI, et al. Simultaneous Transcatheter Aortic and Mitral Native Valve Replacement: A Step-by-Step Procedural Approach. Simultaneous Transcatheter Aortic and Mitral Native Valve Replacement: A Step-by-Step Procedural Approach. 2024; 8:100295. doi: 10.1016/j.shj.2024.100295

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/39100586/
