PMID: 39107833
Title: A case report about anorexia nervosa and ischemic stroke: what can we learn?

Abstract: INTRODUCTION: Anorexia Nervosa (AN) is a complex psychiatric illness, characterized by a high risk of developing cardiovascular complications. Given the high risk of vascular diseases in patients with AN, we can assume that patients with severe AN have a high risk of developing ischemic stroke. However, to the best of our knowledge, no reports of patients with AN presenting with ischemic stroke have been published, other than a report of the development of IS during refeeding therapy in patients with severe AN.
CASE PRESENTATION: The present case report is aimed at describing the characteristics of an ischemic stroke occurring in a 19-year-old university student who had a 6-month history of AN. She was a non-smoker, had no relevant medical history and no family history of stroke. Upon hospital admission due to symptoms of stroke (aphasia and facial droop), she exhibited severe malnutrition with a BMI of 12.8 kg/m2. Computerized tomography imaging revealed occlusion of the left M2 branch and a congruous extensive area of hypoperfusion. Further investigations ruled out all common causes of stroke: she had no vascular stenosis, no heart diseases or arrhythmias, and no shunts, and gave negative results in autoimmune, toxicological and thrombophilia screenings.
CONCLUSION: Clinicians should suspect development of severe complications, including ischemic stroke, in patients with severe AN. Further extensive group studies or group-based studies are needed to elucidate the etiology of ischemic stroke in patients with severe AN. This will enable us to develop more precise and effective interventions.

Citation: Marcolini F, et al. A case report about anorexia nervosa and ischemic stroke: what can we learn?. A case report about anorexia nervosa and ischemic stroke: what can we learn?. 2024; 12:111. doi: 10.1186/s40337-024-01074-0

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/39107833/
