PMID: 39100606
Title: Glans cap-preserving dorsal inlay-free graft augmentation technique for reconstruction of meatal stenosis and fossa navicularis strictures: Analysis of short-term functional outcomes.

Abstract: INTRODUCTION: Meatal stenosis and fossa navicularis strictures (FNSs) are commonly caused by lichen sclerosus and instrumentation. We present the technique and short-term functional outcomes of glans cap-preserving dorsal inlay-free graft augmentation for the reconstruction of meatal stenosis and FNS.
METHODS: This retrospective study analyzed patients with meatal stenosis and FNS who underwent glans cap-preserving dorsal inlay-free graft augmentation at our institute since 2019. The surgical technique included a ventral subcoronal approach, preservation and mobilization of the glans cap, a ventral midline urethrotomy incision over the stricture, and a dorsal midline meatotomy incision extending to the proximal normal urethral mucosa at the fossa navicularis, followed by dorsal inlay graft augmentation. During the follow-up, patients were periodically assessed for symptom scores, urinary flow rates (UFRs), and patient-reported outcomes.
RESULTS: A total of 26 patients with a mean age of 45 ± 15 years were assessed. The predominant cause of stricture was lichen sclerosus (n = 15; 58%). The mean stricture length was 3.8 ± 0.5 cm, 73% had a circumcised phallus, and an oral mucosa graft augmentation was performed in 22 (85%) patients. Notable postoperative complications included intractable meatal hemorrhage (n = 1) and glans suture granuloma (n = 1), which required intervention. At a mean follow-up of 40 months, there were four failures, of which one patient required redo-urethroplasty. The remaining patients (n = 22; 85%) showed improved symptom scores (P &lt; 0.05), UFRs (P &lt; 0.05), and satisfactory patient-reported outcomes.
CONCLUSION: Glans cap-preserving dorsal inlay-free graft augmentation is a safe and feasible technique with satisfactory short-term functional outcomes for the management of meatal stenosis and FNS in carefully selected patients.

Citation: Enganti B, et al. Glans cap-preserving dorsal inlay-free graft augmentation technique for reconstruction of meatal stenosis and fossa navicularis strictures: Analysis of short-term functional outcomes. Glans cap-preserving dorsal inlay-free graft augmentation technique for reconstruction of meatal stenosis and fossa navicularis strictures: Analysis of short-term functional outcomes. 2024; 40:156-160. doi: 10.4103/iju.iju_61_24

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/39100606/
