PMID: 39104523
Title: Human liver derived mesenchymal stromal cells ameliorate murine ischemia-induced inflammation through macrophage polarization.

Abstract: INTRODUCTION: The immunomodulatory properties of mesenchymal stromal cells (MSC) have been well-characterized in in-vitro and in-vivo models. We have previously shown that liver MSC (L-MSC) are superior inhibitors of T-cell activation/proliferation, NK cell cytolytic function, and macrophage activation compared to adipose (A-MSC) and bone marrow MSC (BM-MSC) in-vitro.
METHOD: To test these observations in-vivo, we infused these types of MSC into mice with unilateral renal artery stenosis (RAS), an established model of kidney inflammation. Unilateral RAS was induced via laparotomy in 11-week-old, male 129-S1 mice under general anesthesia. Control mice had sham operations. Human L-MSC, AMSC, and BM-MSC (5x105 cells each) or PBS vehicle were injected intra-arterially 2 weeks after surgery. Kidney morphology was studied 2 weeks after infusion using micro-MRI imaging. Renal inflammation, apoptosis, fibrosis, and MSC retention were studied ex-vivo utilizing western blot, immunofluorescence, and immunohistological analyses.
RESULTS: The stenotic kidney volume was smaller in all RAS mice, confirming significant injury, and was improved by infusion of all MSC types. All MSC-infused groups had lower levels of plasma renin and proteinuria compared to untreated RAS. Serum creatinine improved in micetreated with BM- and L-MSC. All types of MSC located to and were retained within the stenotic kidneys, but L-MSC retention was significantly higher than A- and BM-MSC. While all groups of MSC-treated mice displayed reduced overall inflammation and macrophage counts, L-MSC showed superior potency in-vivo at localizing to the site of inflammation and inducing M2 (reparative) macrophage polarization to reduce inflammatory changes.
DISCUSSION: These in-vivo findings extend our in-vitro studies and suggest that L-MSC possess unique anti-inflammatory properties that may play a role in liver-induced tolerance and lend further support to their use as therapeutic agents for diseases with underlying inflammatory pathophysiology.

Citation: Liang Y, et al. Human liver derived mesenchymal stromal cells ameliorate murine ischemia-induced inflammation through macrophage polarization. Human liver derived mesenchymal stromal cells ameliorate murine ischemia-induced inflammation through macrophage polarization. 2024; 15:1448092. doi: 10.3389/fimmu.2024.1448092

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/39104523/
