PMID: 39102617
Title: Fetal Brain MRI Abnormalities in Pyruvate Dehydrogenase Complex Deficiency.

Abstract: BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES: Pyruvate dehydrogenase complex deficiency (PDCD) is a disorder of mitochondrial metabolism that is caused by pathogenic variants in multiple genes, including PDHA1. Typical neonatal brain imaging findings have been described, with a focus on malformative and encephaloclastic features. Fetal brain MRI in PDCD has not been comprehensively described. The aims of this study were (1) to further characterize the fetal brain MRI findings in PDCD using comprehensive fetal imaging and genetic testing and (2) to determine whether markers of diagnosis of PDCD could be identified on prenatal imaging.
METHODS: Fetuses with a diagnosis of PDCD related to a genetic etiology that had undergone fetal MRI were included. Fetuses were identified retrospectively from local databases of 4 fetal diagnostic clinics within tertiary pediatric health care centers. Electronic medical records were reviewed retrospectively: demographics, maternal and pregnancy history, fetal outcomes, and neonatal outcomes (if available) were reviewed and recorded. Fetal and neonatal imaging reports were reviewed; source fetal and neonatal brain MRI scans were reviewed by a single pediatric neuroradiologist (J.W.S.) for consistency. Genetic testing strategies and results including variant type, zygosity, inheritance pattern, and pathogenicity were recorded. Deidentified data were combined and reported descriptively.
RESULTS: A total of 10 fetuses with a diagnosis of PDCD were included. 8 fetuses had corpus callosum dysgenesis, 6 had an abnormal gyration pattern, 10 had reduced brain volumes, and 9 had cystic lesions. 1 fetus had intraventricular hemorrhages. 1 fetus had a midbrain malformation with aqueductal stenosis and severe hydrocephalus. 6 fetuses imaged in the second trimester had cystic lesions involving the ganglionic eminences (GEs) while GE cysts were not present in the 4 fetuses imaged in the third trimester.
DISCUSSION: Fetuses with PDCD have similar brain MRI findings to neonates described in the literature, although some of these findings are subtle early in pregnancy. Additional features, such as cystic lesions of the GEs, are noted in the second trimester in fetuses with PDCD. These may represent an early diagnostic marker of PDCD, although more data are needed to validate this association. Early diagnosis of PDCD using fetal MRI may inform genetic counseling, pregnancy decision making, and neonatal care planning.

Citation: Fortin O, et al. Fetal Brain MRI Abnormalities in Pyruvate Dehydrogenase Complex Deficiency. Fetal Brain MRI Abnormalities in Pyruvate Dehydrogenase Complex Deficiency. 2024; 103:e209728. doi: 10.1212/WNL.0000000000209728

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/39102617/
