PMID: 39107545
Title: Comprehensive review of pulmonary vein stenosis post-atrial fibrillation ablation: diagnosis, management, and prognosis.

Abstract: Pulmonary vein stenosis (PVS) can occasionally occur in the follow-up after pulmonary vein isolation (PVI) for atrial fibrillation (AF). During PVI, ablation is performed at the PV ostium or distal part, leading to tissue damage. This damage can result in fibrosis of the necrotic myocardium, proliferation, and thickening of the vascular intima, as well as thrombus formation, further advancing PVS. Mild-to-moderate PVS often remains asymptomatic, but severe PVS can cause symptoms, such as dyspnea, cough, fatigue, decreased exercise tolerance, chest pain, and hemoptysis. These symptoms are due to pulmonary hypertension and pulmonary infarction. Imaging evaluations such as contrast-enhanced computed tomography are essential for diagnosing PVS. Early suspicion and detection are necessary, as underdiagnosis can lead to inappropriate treatment, disease progression, and poor outcomes. The long-term prognosis of PVS remains unclear, particularly regarding the impact of mild-to-moderate PVS over time. PVS treatment focuses on symptom management, with no established definitive solutions. For severe PVS, transcatheter PV angioplasty is performed, though the risk of restenosis remains high. Restenosis and reintervention rates have improved with stent implantation compared with balloon angioplasty. The role of subsequent antiplatelet therapy remains uncertain. Dedicated evaluation is essential for accurate diagnosis and appropriate management to avoid significant long-term impacts on patient outcomes.

Citation: Tokuda M, et al. Comprehensive review of pulmonary vein stenosis post-atrial fibrillation ablation: diagnosis, management, and prognosis. Comprehensive review of pulmonary vein stenosis post-atrial fibrillation ablation: diagnosis, management, and prognosis. 2024; 39:412-420. doi: 10.1007/s12928-024-01033-1

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/39107545/
