PMID: 39104267
Title: [The use of the dura mater at the final stage of reconstructive plastic surgical treatment of cicatricial stenosis of the larynx and trachea].

Abstract: The article presents an analysis of the plastic reconstructive surgery effectiveness for patients with an extended tracheal defect using an allograft based on the dura mater (DM) at the final stage of surgical treatment of laryngeal and tracheal cicatricial stenosis. The study included 20 patients with cicatricial stenosis of the larynx and trachea, who were previously performed plastic reconstructive treatment with scar tissue excision in the lumen of the respiratory tract and restoration of the supporting frame of the larynx and trachea using allografts based on costal allocartilage. The age of the patients ranged from 21 to 54 years, the duration of the disease was from 1 to 5 years. After a standard clinical and laboratory examination, with a mandatory video endoscopic examination of the larynx and trachea, multislice computed tomography of the larynx and trachea, patients underwent plastic closure of the tracheal defect using DM. Dynamic outpatient monitoring was carried out once a week for 1 month, once a month for 3 months, control examination was done 6 months after surgical treatment. The results of the study demonstrated a full-fledged social and labor rehabilitation of all 20 patients after the final stage of surgical treatment using DM, the absence of rejection reaction and migration of allo-implantation material, the preserved lumen of the larynx and trachea with a rigid supporting skeleton and the absence of anterior tracheal wall floatation. The use of DM as an additional strengthening of the anterior tracheal wall for patients with deficiency of muscular aponeurotic tissues and more than 2 cm size tracheal defect is highly effective at the final stage of surgical treatment for plastic closure of the tracheal defect.

Citation: Kirasirova EA, et al. [The use of the dura mater at the final stage of reconstructive plastic surgical treatment of cicatricial stenosis of the larynx and trachea]. [The use of the dura mater at the final stage of reconstructive plastic surgical treatment of cicatricial stenosis of the larynx and trachea]. 2024; 89:11-17. doi: 10.17116/otorino20248903111

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/39104267/
