PMID: 39104324
Title: Functional involvement of the sternohyoid muscle during breathing and swallowing in rats.

Abstract: The sternohyoid muscle depresses the hyoid bone, but it is unclear whether the muscle contributes to respiratory and swallowing mechanisms. This study aimed to clarify whether the sternohyoid muscle participates in the respiration and swallowing reflex and how the activity is modulated in two conditions: with airway stenosis and with a fixed sternohyoid muscle length. Electromyographic activity in the sternohyoid, digastric, thyrohyoid, and diaphragm muscles was recorded in anesthetized rats. The sternohyoid muscle activity was observed in the inspiratory phase and during swallowing, and was well coordinated with digastric and thyrohyoid muscle activity. With airway stenosis, the respiratory activity per respiratory cycle was facilitated in all assessed muscles but the facilitation of activity per second occurred only in the digastric, thyrohyoid, and sternohyoid muscles. With airway stenosis, the swallowing activity was facilitated only in the digastric muscle but not in the thyrohyoid and sternohyoid muscles. Swallowing activity was not observed in the sternohyoid muscle in the condition with the sternohyoid muscle length fixed, although increased inspiratory activity remained. The current results suggest that 1) the sternohyoid muscle is slightly activated in the inspiratory phase, 2) the effect of airway stenosis on respiratory function may differ between the upper airway muscles and diaphragm, and 3) swallowing activity in the sternohyoid muscle is not dominantly controlled by the swallowing central pattern generator but instead occurs as a myotatic reflex.NEW &amp; NOTEWORTHY We found that the sternohyoid muscle was activated in the inspiratory phase. However, increased airway resistance had different effects on the extrathoracic muscles than on the diaphragm. The swallowing activity of the sternohyoid disappeared when the muscle length was fixed. These findings suggest that the sternohyoid muscle may be activated not by the swallowing central pattern generator but as a myotatic reflex.

Citation: Saka N, et al. Functional involvement of the sternohyoid muscle during breathing and swallowing in rats. Functional involvement of the sternohyoid muscle during breathing and swallowing in rats. 2024; 327:G598-G607. doi: 10.1152/ajpgi.00138.2024

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/39104324/
