PMID: 39110926
Title: Gastric preconditioning via percutaneous angioembolization before esophagectomy in patients at high risk for esophageal leak.

Abstract: Anastomotic leaks and stenoses remain critical complications in esophagectomy and are related to conduit perfusion. Surgical gastric preconditioning has been described but requires additional surgery and creates scar tissue, potentially hindering future operation. We sought to evaluate the feasibility and safety of percutaneous gastric preconditioning by angioembolization to improve perfusion of gastric conduits before esophagectomy in a high-risk patient cohort. Patients pending an esophagectomy for cancer and deemed to be high risk for anastomotic complications underwent preconditioning by image-guided angioembolization. Preconditioning was performed on an outpatient basis by means of superselective embolization of the left gastric and short gastric arteries. Intraoperative conduit perfusion evaluation with indocyanine green and postoperative surgical outcomes was reviewed. Seventeen patients underwent gastric preconditioning, with no complications observed. Thirteen of the 17 patients ultimately underwent esophagectomy; the remaining four patients were not candidates for an operation. Patients proceeded to surgery a median of 23 days (interquartile range, 21-27 days) after preconditioning. The intraoperative indocyanine green perfusion of all conduits was appropriate, with no tip demarcation and with a median time to dye uptake of 20s (interquartile range, 15-20s). There were no anastomotic stenoses or leaks noted within the series. Gastric conduit preconditioning by percutaneous angioembolization of the left gastric and short gastric arteries can be performed safely and without operative delay in high-risk patients. Further evaluation of preconditioning for conduit optimization is warranted to limit the critical complications of anastomotic leak and stenosis in esophagectomy.

Citation: Bevers KC, et al. Gastric preconditioning via percutaneous angioembolization before esophagectomy in patients at high risk for esophageal leak. Gastric preconditioning via percutaneous angioembolization before esophagectomy in patients at high risk for esophageal leak. 2024; 37:(unknown pages). doi: 10.1093/dote/doae062

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/39110926/
