PMID: 39127572
Title: Morphological changes in the inferior nasal passage associated with superior repositioning of the maxilla with/without horseshoe osteotomy or turbinectomy.

Abstract: Superior repositioning of the maxilla during Le Fort I osteotomy (LFI) may narrow the inferior nasal passage. This retrospective study was performed to investigate morphological changes in the inferior nasal passage following LFI with/without additional procedures performed for nasal ventilation (horseshoe osteotomy or inferior turbinate partial resection). Three groups of patients were compared: those undergoing conventional LFI (Conv, 63 patients), LFI with horseshoe osteotomy (Hs, eight patients), and LFI with inferior turbinate partial resection (Turb, 21 patients). Coronal computed tomography images were used to evaluate the degree of stenosis of the inferior nasal passage. The soft tissue and bony tissue volumes in the inferior turbinate were also calculated three-dimensionally. The rate of obstruction of the inferior nasal passage postoperative was 65.9%, 50%, and 11.9% in the Conv, Hs, and Turb groups, respectively (Fisher's exact test, P < 0.001). Patients in the Turb group had significantly less nasal obstruction regardless of the pitch direction of the maxillary movement or volume of the bone in the inferior turbinate (all P < 0.001). In conclusion, for patients with high superior repositioning and well-developed bony tissue in the inferior turbinate, additional procedures are recommended to maintain the ventilation of the nasal passage postoperatively.

Citation: Nakamura T, et al. Morphological changes in the inferior nasal passage associated with superior repositioning of the maxilla with/without horseshoe osteotomy or turbinectomy. Morphological changes in the inferior nasal passage associated with superior repositioning of the maxilla with/without horseshoe osteotomy or turbinectomy. 2024; 53:1032-1040. doi: 10.1016/j.ijom.2024.07.020

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/39127572/
