PMID: 39132299
Title: Huge, invasive, and destructive Abiotrophia defectiva endocarditis of the aortic valve and the aortic wall: a case report of an emergency but successful Ross-Konno operation in a child.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Abiotrophia defectiva forms Gram-positive cocci, is part of normal oropharyngeal and gastrointestinal flora, and is rarely involved in endocarditis in children population. Its special nutritional requirements and subacute clinical course may delay diagnosis and proper treatment, leading to life-threatening consequences.
CASE SUMMARY: We report a rare case of huge and destructive A. defectiva infective endocarditis (IE) of the aortic valve and the aortic wall in a 3-year-old child, in follow-up after surgical valvuloplasty for congenital aortic stenosis. The child presented at our department with signs of left side hemiplegia. Transthoracic echocardiography showed severe aortic regurgitation due to large vegetation extending to the aortic wall up to the aortic arch. Blood cultures resulted positive for A. defectiva. He was initially treated conservatively with antibiotic therapy. Ten days after admission, because of clinical deterioration, he required intubation and an emergency Ross-Konno operation. Despite the critical conditions and highly risky surgery, the child recovered well and was discharged home 5 weeks after the operation.
DISCUSSION: Abiotrophia defectiva IE is rare in children. Since 1995, only 16 cases of A. defectiva IE have been reported in children, including our case. This pathogen has a higher rate of complications when affecting children rather than adult population. Our case demonstrates that conservative strategy with antibiotics is rarely resolutive in the case of IE caused by A. defectiva. Whenever one or more indications for surgery are present, surgical intervention should always be taken into consideration, even if clinical conditions are prohibitive and surgery is at very high risk.

Citation: Cetera V, et al. Huge, invasive, and destructive Abiotrophia defectiva endocarditis of the aortic valve and the aortic wall: a case report of an emergency but successful Ross-Konno operation in a child. Huge, invasive, and destructive Abiotrophia defectiva endocarditis of the aortic valve and the aortic wall: a case report of an emergency but successful Ross-Konno operation in a child. 2024; 8:ytae356. doi: 10.1093/ehjcr/ytae356

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/39132299/
