PMID: 39132569
Title: Impact of Decision Aid on Decision-making of Patients With Severe Aortic Stenosis: Randomized Pilot Study.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Clinical guidelines recommend patients with aortic stenosis (AS) being considered for transcatheter aortic valve implantation or surgical aortic valve replacement to participate in shared decision-making (SDM) with a heart valve team (HVT). Data supporting these recommendations are limited. This project gathered data on feasibility and preliminary efficacy of a decision aid (DA) in decision-making for patients with severe AS deciding between transcatheter aortic valve implantation and surgical aortic valve replacement.
METHODS: This institutional review board-approved randomized pilot trial assigned eligible patients to receive either the American College of Cardiology's DA for patients with AS or usual care. Patients were surveyed after their visit regarding knowledge, treatment-preference concordance, SDM (SDM process and CollaboRATE Scales), and decisional conflict. Patients were followed for 3 months to collect data on treatment received.
RESULTS: Of 62 patients approached, 59 (95%) consented and participated. The average age of participants was 72 years, they were 100% white, and 32% of them were female. Intervention patients had higher knowledge scores (75.6 vs 65.5) and more frequently reported CollaboRATE top scores (67% vs 33%) than usual care patients. No other group comparisons reached significance. Patients who saw both members of the HVT before survey completion reported higher SDM process scores than those who saw only 1 specialist (3.1 vs 2.4).
CONCLUSIONS: The study exceeded enrollment targets, indicating feasibility. Results suggest the American College of Cardiology's DA improved patient knowledge and communication scores. Patients who met with both members of the HVT reported higher SDM. These observations highlight the importance of SDM and multidisciplinary HVT assessment in the management of severe AS.

Citation: Valentine KD, et al. Impact of Decision Aid on Decision-making of Patients With Severe Aortic Stenosis: Randomized Pilot Study. Impact of Decision Aid on Decision-making of Patients With Severe Aortic Stenosis: Randomized Pilot Study. 2022; 1:100025. doi: 10.1016/j.jscai.2022.100025

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/39132569/
