PMID: 39130858
Title: Assessment of Anteroposterior Diameter and Interpedicular Distance in the Approximation of Cervical Spinal Canal Area.

Abstract: Rationale and objectives This study seeks to generate a model based on two linear measurements, anteroposterior (AP) diameter and interpedicular (IPD) distance, to approximate the cervical central canal (CCC) area in a non-pathologic patient population by employing area calculations of shapes such as ellipse, rectangle, and triangle. Secondarily, this study aims to generate second-order approximations (SOAs), using the aforementioned shape approximations, to increase the utility of this linear measurement-based model. Methods The authors reviewed medical and radiographic records of patients aged 18-35 who received computed tomography (CT) imaging of the cervical spine to collect AP diameter, IPD distance, and area of the CCC from C2-3 to C6-7. Subsequently, shape approximations were calculated for each patient at all cervical spine levels. Lastly, SOAs were generated by combining optimal ratios of shape approximations to improve the statistical reliability of approximations. Results The ellipse shows the closest approximation to manual measurements of the individual shape approximations. Percent error analysis demonstrated the superiority of the ellipse, followed by the rectangle, and lastly the triangular approximation. The highest correlation of approximations was observed at C6-7. All individual shape approximations demonstrated statistical differences from manual measurements. SOAs combining ellipse and rectangle measurements demonstrated superior accuracy and were not statistically different from manual measurements. Conclusion Individual shape approximations based on AP diameter and IPD distance show some value as a model for the assessment of the CCC area. SOAs demonstrated greater utility than individual shape approximations and show promise as a linear measurement-based tool to assess the CCC area.

Citation: Brandt Z, et al. Assessment of Anteroposterior Diameter and Interpedicular Distance in the Approximation of Cervical Spinal Canal Area. Assessment of Anteroposterior Diameter and Interpedicular Distance in the Approximation of Cervical Spinal Canal Area. 2024; 16:e64244. doi: 10.7759/cureus.64244

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/39130858/
