PMID: 39138967
Title: Anatomical and Radiological Findings of Abnormal Calcified Structures within and around the Foramen Transversarium and Its Clinical Implications.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: The foramen transversarium is a vital anatomical structure found in the cervical vertebrae of the spine. Typically, it serves as a passageway for important neurovascular structures, including the vertebral artery and vein, as well as the vertebral nerve. However, abnormal calcification or ossification of soft tissues in and around this area can lead to various clinical implications. Understanding the presence and implications of abnormal ossified structures in and around the foramen transversarium is crucial for clinicians involved in the diagnosis and management of cervical spine disorders.
AIMS: Accordingly, this present study was designed to evaluate the abnormal ossified structures anatomically and radiologically within and around the foramen transversarium.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: This study was conducted on 182 (26 sets of cervical vertebrae) dried human cervical vertebrae obtained from the respective departments of anatomy and on 190 (95 males and 95 females) adult patients who visited the radiology department for neck-related problems such as stiff neck, neck/shoulder pain, dizziness, vertigo, imbalance, visual disturbances, and cognitive impairment.
RESULTS: Among 182 examined cervical vertebrae, unilateral complete accessory foramen transversarium was found in 23 vertebrae (12.63%), bilateral complete in 19 (10.44%), bilateral incomplete in 6 (3.29%), unilateral complete double in 4 (2.19%), and unilateral complete absence of foramen transversarium in 3 (1.64%). Stenosis due to aberrant osteophytes was noted in 9 vertebrae (4.9%). Out of 190 patients, three males presented with cervical kyphosis, severe spinal canal stenosis, and spinal cord compression due to ossification of the posterior longitudinal ligament and osteophyte complexes at C3-C6, with the most significant compression at C5-C6.
CONCLUSION: A thorough understanding of abnormal ossifications in and around the foramen transversarium is crucial for the management of cervical spine disorders; imaging modalities such as X-ray, computed tomography, and magnetic resonance imaging are crucial for recognizing and intervening in these cases, which is essential to prevent adverse neurological outcomes associated with vertebral artery involvement.

Citation: Chakravarthi KK, et al. Anatomical and Radiological Findings of Abnormal Calcified Structures within and around the Foramen Transversarium and Its Clinical Implications. Anatomical and Radiological Findings of Abnormal Calcified Structures within and around the Foramen Transversarium and Its Clinical Implications. 2024; 23:641-648. doi: 10.4103/aam.aam_73_24

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/39138967/
