PMID: 39133228
Title: Buckling of the Ligamentum Flavum in Patients with Lumbar Spinal Canal Stenosis.

Abstract: STUDY DESIGN: Experimental study.
OBJECTIVE: We sought to elucidate the association between ligamentum flavum thickening and tissue buckling, and the clinical and imaging factors related to buckling by comparing the ligamentum flavum thickness on MRI images and within the actual tissue.
SUMMARY OF BACKGROUND DATA: Ligamentum flavum thickening is a main contributor to lumbar spinal canal stenosis. Buckling of the tissue may contribute to ligamentum flavum thickening along with tissue hypertrophy; however, this association has not been established conclusively.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Ligamentum flavum samples (135 ligament samples) from 70 patients with lumbar spinal canal stenosis were evaluated. The ligamentum flavum thicknesses on magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and in the tissue samples were compared to assess for the presence of buckling. The ligamentum flavum samples were divided into groups with or without buckling based on the difference between their thicknesses on MRI and in the tissues. The Pearson correlation coefficient test was used to assess the relationships between the LF thicknesses on MRI and in the tissues, MRI-tissue difference and LF thickness in the tissues, and MRI-tissue difference and LF thickness on MRI. Further, differences between the buckling+ and buckling- groups were compared using the unpaired t-test (LF thickness on MRI, LF thickness in the tissues, age, disc angle, and disc height) and χ2 (disc level, disc degeneration, and receival/nonreceival of dialysis) test.
RESULTS: The ligamentum flavum thickness on MRI and in the tissues had a positive linear relationship, although the thickness was estimated to be significantly larger on MRI than in the tissues themselves. The ligamentum flavum with buckling had a larger thickness on MRI, less tissue hypertrophy, more severe disc degeneration, and was present in patients with a higher rate of dialysis. There were no differences in age and disc height, angle, or level between the two groups.
CONCLUSIONS: Buckling of the ligamentum flavum coexists with tissue hypertrophy and contributes to perceived ligamentum thickening on imaging. Buckling of the ligamentum flavum tends to occur in less hypertrophied tissues and is associated with the grade of disc degeneration and the presence of other characteristics associated with spinal degeneration.

Citation: Yabe Y, et al. Buckling of the Ligamentum Flavum in Patients with Lumbar Spinal Canal Stenosis. Buckling of the Ligamentum Flavum in Patients with Lumbar Spinal Canal Stenosis. 2024; 49:E284-E290. doi: 10.1097/BRS.0000000000004941

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/39133228/
