PMID: 39135751
Title: Versatility of the supraclavicular artery island flap for head and neck reconstruction.

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: To present our experience using the supraclavicular artery island flap (SCAIF) for head and neck reconstruction.
METHODS: We performed a retrospective chart review to identify patients who underwent head and neck reconstruction with SCAIF at our institution. The following data were collected: age, sex, surgical indications, flap harvest time, flap dimensions, length of hospital stay, complications, and clinical outcomes.
RESULTS: Thirty-three patients underwent SCAIF reconstruction, of whom four underwent pectoralis major myocutaneous flap reconstruction simultaneously. Twenty flaps were used to repair pharyngeal or esophageal defects following resection for tonsillar, hypopharyngeal, laryngeal, and cervical esophageal cancers. Five flaps were used for tracheal reconstruction following resection for tracheal or thyroid gland cancer. Seven flaps were used for reconstruction of cervical skin defects or fistulas related to a previous treatment. One flap for tracheal stenosis following tracheotomy. The mean age of the patients was 60.69 ± 11.47 years. The mean flap harvest time was 32.00 ± 4.44 min. The mean flap size was 10.16 ± 3.91 × 5.78 ± 0.68 cm. The mean length of hospital stay is 24.84 ± 13.78 days. Three patients had partial necrosis of the distal portion of the flap, which resolved with anti-infection therapy and local wound care. One patient developed a fistula that was resolved with wound care and further surgical intervention. Complete flap loss or major complications were not observed. No donor site complication or compromised shoulder function was observed.
CONCLUSION: The SCAIF can be successfully used to reconstruct head and neck defects with good outcomes and limited morbidity.
LEVEL OF EVIDENCE: 4.

Citation: Ru Y, et al. Versatility of the supraclavicular artery island flap for head and neck reconstruction. Versatility of the supraclavicular artery island flap for head and neck reconstruction. 2024; 9:e1320. doi: 10.1002/lio2.1320

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/39135751/
