PMID: 39148349
Title: Assessment of Sonographic Parameters for Predicting Primary Patency Rate in Hemodialysis Patients With Venous Valve-Related Stenosis.

Abstract: OBJECTIVES: Ultrasonography is more frequently used in patients with arteriovenous fistula (AVF) stenosis. The aim of this study is to use sonographic parameters for predicting primary patency in hemodialysis patients with venous valve-related stenosis (VVRS) who are treated by ultrasound-guided percutaneous transluminal angioplasty (PTA).
METHODS: A total of 229 VVRS patients who underwent PTA between January 2017 and December 2021 were enrolled. Clinical characteristics were retrospectively collected. Sonographic parameters were measured both before and after PTA. Univariate and multivariate Cox analyses were performed to identify independent factors associated with primary patency rate.
RESULTS: All measured sonographic parameters improved after PTA compared to before PTA. Before PTA, the diameter of VVRS &gt; 1.0 mm, age ≤ 57 years, and body mass index (BMI) &gt; 21.57 kg/m2 were associated with better outcomes. While the diameter of radial artery, proximal radial artery close to the anastomosis, brachial artery, the flow volume of brachial artery, the length and peak velocity (PV) of the VVRS, and the diameter and PV after the VVRS had no association with the primary patency rate. After PTA, only patients with a diameter of VVRS &gt; 4.0 mm had favorable outcome. In addition, patients with a gain of diameter of VVRS &gt; 2.4 mm after PTA had a trend of better outcomes.
CONCLUSIONS: The diameter of VVRS before and after PTA could be served as markers to predict primary patency rate and second patency rate in AVF patients with VVRS. The gain of diameter of VVRS could also be a potential marker.
CLINICAL IMPACT: Using simple markers of sonographic parameters, we could quickly identify patients with a higher risk of restenosis. These patients should be followed more closely in case of restenosis at early. It is also beneficial to the prevention of thrombosis. These measures help to preserve more valuable vascular for a long-term dialysis. Additionally, the physician should pay more attention on the dialysis-related complications in these risky patients, such as hemodialysis-related hypotension.

Citation: Xiong Y, et al. Assessment of Sonographic Parameters for Predicting Primary Patency Rate in Hemodialysis Patients With Venous Valve-Related Stenosis. Assessment of Sonographic Parameters for Predicting Primary Patency Rate in Hemodialysis Patients With Venous Valve-Related Stenosis. 2024; (unknown volume):15266028241270680. doi: 10.1177/15266028241270680

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/39148349/
