PMID: 39145863
Title: Are Hair Scalp Trace Elements Correlated with Atherosclerosis Location in Coronary Artery Disease?

Abstract: Coronary artery disease is among the leading current epidemiological challenges. The genetic, clinical, and lifestyle-related risk factors are well documented. The reason for specific epicardial artery locations remains unsolved. The coronary artery topography and blood flow characteristics may induce local inflammatory activation. The atherosclerotic plaque formation is believed to represent inflammatory response involving enzymatic processes co-factored by trace elements. The possible relation between trace elements and coronary artery disease location was the subject of the study. There were 175 patients (107 (61) men and 68 (39) females) in a median (Q1-3) age of 71 years (65-76) admitted for coronary angiography due to chronic coronary syndrome. The angiographic results focused on the percentage of lumen stenosis in certain arteries and were compared with the results for hair scalp trace elements. The correlation between left main coronary artery atherosclerotic plaques and nickel (Ni), zinc (Zn), and antimony (Sb) hair scalp concentration was noted. The analysis revealed a positive relation between left descending artery disease and chromium (Cr), sodium (Na), arsenic (As), and molybdenum (Mo) and a negative correlation with strontium (Sr). The atherosclerotic lesion in the circumflex artery revealed correlations in our analysis with sodium (Na), potassium (K), chromium (Cr), nickel (Ni), arsenic (As), and negative with strontium (Sr) (r) hair scalp concentrations. The negative correlations between right coronary artery disease and magnesium (Mg) and strontium (Sr) concentrations were noted. The possible explanation of different epicardial artery involvement and severity by atherosclerotic processes may lay in their topography and blood rheological characteristics that induce different inflammatory reactions co0factored by specific trace elements. The trace element concentration in the hair scalp may correlate with a particular coronary atherosclerotic involvement, including the severity of lumen reduction. This may indicate the missing link between the pathophysiological processes of atherosclerosis development and its location in coronary arteries.

Citation: Urbanowicz T, et al. Are Hair Scalp Trace Elements Correlated with Atherosclerosis Location in Coronary Artery Disease?. Are Hair Scalp Trace Elements Correlated with Atherosclerosis Location in Coronary Artery Disease?. 2024; (unknown volume):(unknown pages). doi: 10.1007/s12011-024-04335-w

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/39145863/
