PMID: 39159616
Title: Clinical Findings in a Series of Thirty Eight Patients with Williams-Beuren Syndrome.

Abstract: INTRODUCTION: Williams-Beuren syndrome is a contiguous gene syndrome caused by microdeletion of the locus 7q11.23. It is a clinically recognizable condition whose cardinal features include growth deficiency, variable degrees of neurodevelopmental disorders, congenital cardiac defects, outgoing personality, and typical facies. Case Series Presentation: This retrospective study analyzed 38 consecutive patients in a single center for rare diseases, diagnosed by Preus criteria modified by the Sugayama scoring system, comprising 17 male and 21 female individuals aged 1 month to 55 years. Cases were divided into two groups concerning (a) exclusive clinical diagnosis or (b) clinical diagnosis followed by a laboratory cytogenetic or cytogenomic test; except for hypertension, no significant difference was seen among both groups. The most frequent findings were intellectual deficiency, developmental delay, typical facies, and overfriendliness, all above 80% of the total sample. On the other hand, supravalvar aortic stenosis was found in only 32.4%, while other congenital heart diseases were seen in 56.7% of the sample. Unusual features included one individual with 13 pairs of ribs, another with unilateral microphthalmia, and three with unilateral renal agenesis. Comorbidities comprised 9 cases of hypothyroidism and 1 case each of precocious puberty, segmental vitiligo, type 1 diabetes mellitus, and congenital adrenal hyperplasia.
CONCLUSION: Preus criteria modified by the Sugayama scoring system are still efficient and helpful for clinical diagnosis. This is the second report on microphthalmia and the first study describing the association between vitiligo, type 1 diabetes mellitus, and congenital adrenal hyperplasia in individuals with Williams-Beuren syndrome.

Citation: de Oliveira KMK, et al. Clinical Findings in a Series of Thirty Eight Patients with Williams-Beuren Syndrome. Clinical Findings in a Series of Thirty Eight Patients with Williams-Beuren Syndrome. 2024; (unknown volume):1-9. doi: 10.1159/000540941

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/39159616/
