PMID: 39158018
Title: Single-cell RNA sequencing reveals the CRTAC1+ population actively contributes to the pathogenesis of spinal ligament degeneration by SPP1+ macrophage.

Abstract: Degenerative spinal stenosis is a chronic disease that affects the spinal ligaments and associated bones, resulting in back pain and disorders of the limbs among the elderly population. There are few preventive strategies for such ligament degeneration. We here aimed to establish a comprehensive transcriptomic atlas of ligament tissues to identify high-priority targets for pharmaceutical treatment of ligament degeneration. Here, single-cell RNA sequencing was performed on six degenerative ligaments and three traumatic ligaments to understand tissue heterogeneity. After stringent quality control, high-quality data were obtained from 32,014 cells. Distinct cell clusters comprising stromal and immune cells were identified in ligament tissues. Among them, we noted that collagen degradation associated with CTHRC1+ fibroblast-like cells and calcification linked to CRTAC1+ chondrocyte-like cells were key features of ligament degeneration. SCENIC analysis and further experiments identified ATF3 as a key transcription factor regulating the pathogenesis of CRTAC1+ chondrocyte-like cells. Typically, immune cells infiltrate localized organs, causing tissue damage. In our study, myeloid cells were found to be inflammatory-activated, and SPP1+ macrophages were notably enriched in degenerative ligaments. Further exploration via CellChat analysis demonstrated a robust interaction between SPP1+ macrophages and CRTAC1+ chondrocyte-like cells. Activated by SPP1, ATF3 propels the CRTAC1/MGP/CLU axis, fostering ligament calcification. Our unique resource provides novel insights into possible mechanisms underlying ligament degeneration, the target cell types, and molecules that are expected to mitigate degenerative spinal ligament. We also highlight the role of immune regulation in ligament degeneration and calcification, enhancing our understanding of this disease.

Citation: Tang Y, et al. Single-cell RNA sequencing reveals the CRTAC1+ population actively contributes to the pathogenesis of spinal ligament degeneration by SPP1+ macrophage. Single-cell RNA sequencing reveals the CRTAC1+ population actively contributes to the pathogenesis of spinal ligament degeneration by SPP1+ macrophage. 2024; (unknown volume):e14320. doi: 10.1111/acel.14320

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/39158018/
