PMID: 39153748
Title: Sport PRactice and its Effects on aortic size and valve function in bicuspid Aortic valve Disease: a cross-sectional report from the SPREAD study.

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: Concerns exist about the possible detrimental effects of exercise training on aortic size and valve function in individuals with bicuspid aortic valve (BAV). This multicentre international study aimed to determine the characteristics of aortic size and valve function in athletes versus non-athletes with BAV and athletes with tricuspid aortic valve (TAV).
METHODS: We enrolled competitive athletes with BAV and age- and sex-matched athletes with TAV and non-athletes with BAV. We assessed valve function, aortic size and biventricular measures using echocardiography. Individuals with established moderate-severe AV stenosis, regurgitation or significant aortic dilation were excluded from the study.
RESULTS: The study population comprised 504 participants: 186 competitive athletes with BAV (84% males; age 30±11 years), 193 competitive athletes with TAV and 125 non-athletes with BAV. The aortic annulus was greater in athletes with BAV than athletes with TAV and non-athletes with BAV (p<0.001). Both athletic and non-athletic individuals with BAV had greater sinuses of Valsalva, sino-tubular junction and ascending aorta diameters than athletes with TAV (p<0.001). However, no significant differences were found between athletes and non-athletes with BAV. Left ventricular index volumes and mass were greater in athletes with BAV than in the other two groups (p<0.001). Individuals with BAV (athletes and non-athletes) had greater mean gradients than TAV athletes.
CONCLUSION: This multicentre international study demonstrates no differences between athletes with BAV and non-athletes with BAV regarding aortic valve function or aortic dimensions. However, athletes with BAV have larger aortic diameters and a relatively worse valvular function than athletes with TAV.

Citation: D'Ascenzi F, et al. Sport PRactice and its Effects on aortic size and valve function in bicuspid Aortic valve Disease: a cross-sectional report from the SPREAD study. Sport PRactice and its Effects on aortic size and valve function in bicuspid Aortic valve Disease: a cross-sectional report from the SPREAD study. 2024; (unknown volume):(unknown pages). doi: 10.1136/bjsports-2023-107772

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/39153748/
