PMID: 39156392
Title: Distant Multilevel Spinal Metastasis Secondary to Hypopharyngeal Squamous Cell Carcinoma.

Abstract: Head and neck squamous cell carcinomas account for most head and neck malignancies. While multi-modality treatment may be offered for locally advanced cancer, distant metastasis still occurs in a significant number of patients. This paper aims to present a rare case of a patient who developed bony metastases in the cervical spine from a primary hypopharyngeal malignancy status post-laryngopharyngectomy. We report a case of a male patient presenting with acute-on-chronic hypercapnic and hypoxic respiratory failure with two months of dysphagia and weight loss. On arrival, a barium swallow revealed mucosal irregularity of the upper thoracic esophagus as well as narrowing and stenosis. A direct laryngoscopy with biopsy revealed squamous cell carcinoma of the hypopharynx. CT neck and chest were obtained for staging. He underwent a total laryngopharyngectomy, bilateral neck dissections, and a free flap. His final staging was pT4aN2c cM0. Three months post-admission, during inpatient radiation therapy, the patient reported midline neck pain with focal bone tenderness, and an MRI was obtained of his cervical and thoracic spine with a report concerning spinal metastasis.A subsequent bone biopsy showed findings consistent with osseous metastasis from a primary hypopharyngeal squamous cell carcinoma. After multidisciplinary goals of care discussions, the patient ultimately decided to be discharged to inpatient hospice. This report highlights a rare case of hypopharyngeal carcinoma metastasis to the cervical spine. Despite its rarity and poor prognosis, such a metastasis should be considered in the differential diagnosis of patients with a history of hypopharyngeal squamous cell carcinoma and localizing symptoms.

Citation: Kirby RP, et al. Distant Multilevel Spinal Metastasis Secondary to Hypopharyngeal Squamous Cell Carcinoma. Distant Multilevel Spinal Metastasis Secondary to Hypopharyngeal Squamous Cell Carcinoma. 2024; 16:e64715. doi: 10.7759/cureus.64715

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/39156392/
