PMID: 39168765
Title: Multidetector computed tomography imaging planning for bronchoscopy stent and valve placement in the treatment of COPD, air leaks, and airway stenosis.

Abstract: Bronchoscopy using a flexible bronchoscope is considered a safe procedure and has been used for diagnosing and treating airway and parenchymal lung diseases. Bronchoscopic interventions in selected patients with emphysema, airway stenosis, and air leaks provide new treatment options. The application of multidetector computed tomography (MDCT) planning prior to bronchoscopy is comprehensively addressed. Using MDCT scan for pre-procedural planning, ensures precise navigation and device placement during bronchoscopy, ultimately improving patient outcomes. Radiological features can be correlated with bronchoscopy findings, linking MDCT images with direct bronchoscopy observations. This educational statement provides a comprehensive overview of the integration of computed tomography and bronchoscopy in managing different pulmonary conditions treated with endobronchial valve and airway stent placement, focusing on key aspects to enhance understanding and application in clinical practice. Emphasis is placed on their role in treating airway stenosis (AS), air leaks, and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), highlighting the conditions under which these procedures are most beneficial. It explores how MDCT imaging contributes to the diagnosis and treatment planning of these conditions and the correct interpretation of MDCT image findings during follow-up after the procedure.

Citation: Mariussi M, et al. Multidetector computed tomography imaging planning for bronchoscopy stent and valve placement in the treatment of COPD, air leaks, and airway stenosis. Multidetector computed tomography imaging planning for bronchoscopy stent and valve placement in the treatment of COPD, air leaks, and airway stenosis. 2024; (unknown volume):(unknown pages). doi: 10.1067/j.cpradiol.2024.08.008

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/39168765/
