PMID: 39165880
Title: Factors that influence the results of indirect decompression employing oblique lumbar interbody fusion.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Indirect decompression is one of the potential benefits of anterior reconstruction in patients with spinal stenosis. On the other hand, the reported rate of revision surgery after indirect decompression highlights the necessity of working out prediction models for the radiographic results of indirect decompression with assessing their clinical relevance.
AIM: To assess factors that influence radiographic and clinical results of the indirect decompression in patients with stenosis of the lumbar spine.
METHODS: This study is a single-center cross-sectional evaluation of 80 consecutive patients (17 males and 63 females) with lumbar spinal stenosis combined with the instability of the lumbar spinal segment. Patients underwent single level or bisegmental spinal instrumentation employing oblique lumbar interbody fusion (OLIF) with percutaneous pedicle screw fixation. Radiographic results of the indirect decompression were assessed using computerized tomography, while MacNab scale was used to assess clinical results.
RESULTS: After indirect decompression employing anterior reconstruction using OLIF, the statistically significant increase in the disc space height, vertebral canal square, right and left lateral canal depth were detected (ла &lt; 0.0001). The median (M) relative vertebral canal square increase came to лю = 24.5% with 25%-75% quartile border (16.3%; 33.3%) if indirect decompression was achieved by restoration of the segment height. In patients with the reduction of the upper vertebrae slip, the median of the relative increase in vertebral canal square accounted for 49.5% with 25%-75% quartile border (2.35; 99.75). Six out of 80 patients (7.5%) presented with unsatisfactory results because of residual nerve root compression. The critical values for lateral recess depth and vertebral canal square that were associated with indirect decompression failure were 3 mm and 80 mm2 respectively.
CONCLUSION: Indirect decompression employing anterior reconstruction is achieved by the increase in disc height along the posterior boarder and reduction of the slipped vertebrae in patients with degenerative spondylolisthesis. Vertebral canal square below 80 mm2 and lateral recess depth less than 3 mm are associated with indirect decompression failures that require direct microsurgical decompression.

Citation: Bokov AE, et al. Factors that influence the results of indirect decompression employing oblique lumbar interbody fusion. Factors that influence the results of indirect decompression employing oblique lumbar interbody fusion. 2024; 15:734-743. doi: 10.5312/wjo.v15.i8.734

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/39165880/
