PMID: 39168761
Title: Safety and efficacy of covered stent grafts in the treatment of emergent access related complications.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Large bore percutaneous access is becoming increasingly common. Parallel to this, we observe an increase in vascular access site complications such as bleeding, dissection, thrombosis or pseudo-aneurysms. This study was aimed to evaluate safety and efficacy of covered stent grafts for fixing large bore vascular access injuries.
METHODS: A total of 147 Viabahn or Viabahn VBX (WL Gore) stent grafts which were placed across the inguinal ligament in emergent settings in 136 patients, were retrospectively analyzed. The two endpoints were the technical success rate, defined by complete arterial repair, and long-term stent graft patency. We also looked at the need for open conversion, wound infections, and in hospital and 30-day mortality. We followed the patients using duplex ultrasound and computed tomography angiogram to assess for arterial patency, freedom from intervention, stent kinking and clinical symptoms.
RESULTS: 30 Viabahn and 117 Viabahn VBX (WL Gore) stent grafts were placed in the distal external iliac artery and into the proximal common femoral artery of 136 patients. Indications for intervention were bleeding in 92 patients (68 %), flow limiting dissection in 41 patients (30 %) and symptomatic AVF in 3 patients (2 %). Primary technical success rate was 100 %. Limited 3-year follow up (101/136 patients) showed 99 % patency with no evidence of stent fracture, stenosis or kinking except in one patient who needed target lesion revascularization due to neointimal hyperplasia.
CONCLUSIONS: Covered stent grafts can be placed safely, efficiently, and effectively in the distal external iliac and common femoral arteries across the inguinal ligament. These stent grafts can be used as an alternative therapeutic option to open surgery in patients with large bore vascular access injuries.

Citation: Wilderman M, et al. Safety and efficacy of covered stent grafts in the treatment of emergent access related complications. Safety and efficacy of covered stent grafts in the treatment of emergent access related complications. 2024; (unknown volume):(unknown pages). doi: 10.1016/j.carrev.2024.08.011

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/39168761/
