PMID: 39169584
Title: Puncture dilatation tracheostomy in children during transoral neurosurgical interventions.

Abstract: UNLABELLED: Neurosurgical interventions within the ventral surface of the clivus and upper cervical vertebrae in childhood are sometimes carried out through transoral approach. In this situation, tracheostomy is safer for airway protection and mechanical ventilation compared to prolonged intubation. The world experience of percutaneous dilation tracheostomy in pediatric patients is limited due to anatomical and physiological features, such as difficult orientation in anatomical landmarks, high mobility of the trachea and small tracheal lumen. Also, the trachea easily collapses when pressed in pediatric patients that complicates safe puncture of anterior wall and can lead to perforation of posterior tracheal wall.
OBJECTIVE: To describe a modified technique of video-assisted percutaneous dilation tracheostomy using additional thin guide and dilator in children of primary school age.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: We considered 11 patients aged 6-12 years who underwent video-assisted percutaneous dilation tracheostomy.
RESULTS: There were no perioperative complications (bleeding, false course, perforation of posterior tracheal wall). Infection of tracheostomy, fistulas or tracheal stenosis was absent.
CONCLUSION: Percutaneous dilation tracheostomy may be alternative to classical surgical tracheostomy for pediatric patients. Endoscopic control and certain technical changes of percutaneous tracheostomy are necessary and provide safe manipulation. Surgery time, less trauma and minimal cosmetic defect after tracheostomy are significant advantages of this technique compared to surgical tracheostomy.

Citation: Ananyev EP, et al. Puncture dilatation tracheostomy in children during transoral neurosurgical interventions. Puncture dilatation tracheostomy in children during transoral neurosurgical interventions. 2024; 88:71-77. doi: 10.17116/neiro20248804171

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/39169584/
