PMID: 39167237
Title: Ultrasound innovations in abdominal radiology: multiparametic imaging in liver transplantation.

Abstract: PURPOSE: Ultrasound plays a central role in liver transplant evaluation. Acute, subacute, and chronic complications can be readily identified using grayscale and color Doppler ultrasound. Contrast-enhanced ultrasound adds a new dimension to liver transplant evaluation, depicting vascular and parenchymal processes with exquisite detail. In addition, emerging evidence suggests that contrast-enhanced ultrasound may allow for localization of biliary leak in select patients. We aimed to assess the use of multiparametric ultrasound-including grayscale, color and spectral Doppler, and contrast-enhanced ultrasound-in the setting of liver transplantation.
METHODS: A literature review was performed using the MEDLINE bibliographic database through the National Library of Medicine. The following terms were searched and relevant citations assessed: "abdominal ultrasound," "contrast-enhanced ultrasound," "liver transplant," and "ultrasound."
RESULTS: Grayscale and color Doppler ultrasound represent the mainstay imaging modalities for postoperative liver transplant evaluation. The addition of contrast enhancement plays a complementary role and can provide valuable information related to the allograft vasculature, parenchyma, and biliary tree. The appropriate implementation of grayscale, color Doppler, and contrast-enhanced ultrasound can optimize sensitivity, specificity, and accuracy for the detection of liver transplantation complications, including hepatic artery stenosis, biliary leakage, and infection.
CONCLUSION: Multimodal sonographic evaluation is essential to identify postoperative complications in liver transplant recipients. Contrast-enhanced ultrasound may be of value in challenging cases, providing excellent anatomic delineation and reducing the risk of false-positive and false-negative diagnoses. A broad familiarity with appropriate applications of both nonenhanced and contrast-enhanced ultrasound may help radiologists optimize allograft assessment and improve patient outcomes.

Citation: Chau SS, et al. Ultrasound innovations in abdominal radiology: multiparametic imaging in liver transplantation. Ultrasound innovations in abdominal radiology: multiparametic imaging in liver transplantation. 2024; (unknown volume):(unknown pages). doi: 10.1007/s00261-024-04518-y

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/39167237/
