PMID: 39160326
Title: Laparoscopic resection for retroperitoneum ganglioneuroma with Supine hypotension syndrome.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Supine hypotension syndrome (SHS) has been reported to occur due to compression by a giant tumor such as ovarian tumor. We herein report a case of retroperitoneal ganglioneuroma with SHS treated with laparoscopic resection.
CASE PRESENTATION: The patient was an 11-year-old male with right-sided abdominal pain. He had a pale complexion and tachycardia while falling asleep. Computed tomography (CT) and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) showed a giant mass lesion (60 × 35 mm) with compression of the inferior vena cava (IVC) and duodenum ventrally and the right kidney caudally. The IVC was flattened by mass compression. Abdominal ultrasonography (US) revealed narrowing of the IVC due to the mass and accelerated blood flow after IVC stenosis in the supine and left lateral recumbent position. His pale complexion and tachycardia while falling asleep was thought to be due to decreased venous return caused by the tumor compressing the IVC, resulting hypotension. 123I-MIBG scintigraphy revealed no abnormal findings. Tumor markers were normal. He was diagnosed with SHS due to a right adrenal gland tumor. The tumor compressed the IVC from the dorsal side, and hemostasis was expected to be difficult during bleeding. Therefore, a guidewire was inserted from the right femoral vein into the IVC for emergency balloon insertion during bleeding. A laparoscopic tumor resection was performed. A histopathological examination confirmed the diagnosis of primary retroperitoneal ganglioneuroma.
CONCLUSIONS: The treatment of symptomatic retroperitoneal tumors requires a multidisciplinary approach.

Citation: Sugai Y, et al. Laparoscopic resection for retroperitoneum ganglioneuroma with Supine hypotension syndrome. Laparoscopic resection for retroperitoneum ganglioneuroma with Supine hypotension syndrome. 2024; 10:192. doi: 10.1186/s40792-024-01992-w

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/39160326/
