PMID: 39161075
Title: Simultaneous Single-Position Oblique Lumbar Interbody Fusion and Percutaneous Pedicle Screw Fixation under O-Arm Navigation for Modified MISDEF Type II Adult Degenerative Scoliosis: Case Series and Surgical Technique.

Abstract: PURPOSE: Oblique lumbar interbody fusion (OLIF) has become a popular technique for treating adult degenerative scoliosis (ADS), but traditional OLIF technology often requires repositioning for one-stage or staged posterior fixation. The objective of this pilot study was to describe the surgical technique of simultaneous single-position OLIF and percutaneous pedicle screw fixation (OLIF 360) under O-Arm navigation for modified MISDEF type II ADS.
METHODS: Between June 2022 and December 2023, six patients classified as having modified MISDEF type II ADS underwent OLIF 360 assisted by O-Arm navigation at our institution. Intraoperative blood loss, duration of operation, and complications related to the OLIF 360 procedure were recorded. The preoperative and postoperative spinal pelvic parameters were measured using X-rays. The accuracy of pedicel screws was recorded in accordance with the modified Gertzbein-Robbins classification on CT. Postoperative MRI was performed to evaluate the indirect decompressive effect. The Japanese Orthopedic Association score for low back pain was used to evaluate surgical outcomes.
RESULTS: Navigated OLIF 360 were performed in six ADS patients with 44 percutaneous pedicel screws and 16 cages placement, including four women and two men. The mean operation time was 160.83 ± 33.23 min, and the mean blood loss was 111.67 ± 39.71 mL. Postoperative spinal pelvic parameters and spinal stenosis degree improved significantly on X-ray and MRI. All screws were clinically acceptable according to the Gertzbein-Robbins classification, with 92.7% grade A and 7.3% grade B. No serious intraoperative and postoperative adverse events were recorded in all patients. The JOA scores for low back pain of all patients were significantly improved at postoperative 1 month and the final follow-up.
CONCLUSION: We report on a case series and describe navigated OLIF 360 in treating modified MISDEF type II ADS patients. Navigation-assisted OLIF 360 has shown encouraging surgical outcomes with good spinal imbalance correction and indirect decompression.

Citation: Wang Y, et al. Simultaneous Single-Position Oblique Lumbar Interbody Fusion and Percutaneous Pedicle Screw Fixation under O-Arm Navigation for Modified MISDEF Type II Adult Degenerative Scoliosis: Case Series and Surgical Technique. Simultaneous Single-Position Oblique Lumbar Interbody Fusion and Percutaneous Pedicle Screw Fixation under O-Arm Navigation for Modified MISDEF Type II Adult Degenerative Scoliosis: Case Series and Surgical Technique. 2024; 16:2552-2561. doi: 10.1111/os.14179

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/39161075/
