PMID: 39166282
Title: Forearm access for carotid artery stenting using the dual protection of flow reversal and distal filter: Trans-forearm dual protection technique.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Although transfemoral carotid artery stenting (CAS) is widely performed for carotid stenosis, serious or even fatal complications such as embolic and access site complications can still occur. We devised a novel dual protection system with continuous flow reversal to the cephalic vein of the forearm in transradial CAS, referred to as the "trans-forearm dual protection" technique.
METHODS: A 75-year-old man with a diagnosis of symptomatic left cervical internal carotid artery (ICA) stenosis underwent CAS using the trans-forearm dual protection technique.
RESULTS: A 4F sheath was introduced into the cephalic vein of the right forearm. After an 8F balloon-guiding catheter was navigated into the left common carotid artery (CCA) via right sheathless radial access, a distal filter protection device was advanced into the high cervical ICA. The 8F balloon-guiding catheter was inflated and connected to the 4F sheath with a blood filter interposed. Under the dual protection of flow reversal and distal filter, the CAS procedure was performed. The postprocedural course was uneventful. Diffusion-weighted imaging 2 days after the procedure showed no evidence of ischemic stroke. The patient was discharged home without any complications 1 week after the procedure. Carotid duplex ultrasound performed 9 months after the procedure showed no signs of restenosis.
CONCLUSIONS: This method allows for CAS under the dual protection of flow reversal and filter device protection via the trans-forearm access, reducing the risk of embolism and access site complications. Therefore, the trans-forearm dual protection technique can be a useful option for CAS.

Citation: Hanaoka Y, et al. Forearm access for carotid artery stenting using the dual protection of flow reversal and distal filter: Trans-forearm dual protection technique. Forearm access for carotid artery stenting using the dual protection of flow reversal and distal filter: Trans-forearm dual protection technique. 2024; (unknown volume):15910199241270903. doi: 10.1177/15910199241270903

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/39166282/
