PMID: 39167733
Title: Facial Swelling and Neuritis After Internal Carotid Endarterectomy in an 81-Year-Old Woman With Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus: A Case Report.

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: Patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus (DM2) may develop carotid artery stenosis (CAS), requiring surgical intervention. Nerve injury following carotid endarterectomy (CEA) is a rare and often unrecognized post-operative side effect. This case report describes the diagnostic process and rehabilitation course of a patient with greater auricular and trigeminal neuritis symptoms following internal CEA.
METHODS: The patient is an 81-year-old woman with DM2 who underwent a left internal CEA. She subsequently developed swelling in her left neck and face, and pain along the greater auricular and trigeminal nerve pathways. Pertinent examination findings included incision placement across the path of the greater auricular nerve and cervical lymphatic vessels that drain the face, with overlying scar adhesion. A course of physical therapy was initiated 12 days after surgery, and included mobilization and manual lymphatic drainage, modalities, and application of kinesiotape.
RESULTS: The Patient Specific Functional Scale (PSFS) improved from 10/30 at evaluation to 27/30 at discharge. Swelling and pain were significantly reduced, with patient reporting no difficulty with sleeping, chewing, or talking at discharge. The reported pain level consistently correlated with fluctuations in face swelling throughout treatment.
CONCLUSION: Patients with DM2 may present with symptoms of cardiovascular disease, requiring invasive surgical procedures. DM2 can cause damage to neural and vascular structures, predisposing patients to nerve injuries or hypersensitivity following procedures. This case report demonstrates a likely connection between post-operative facial swelling and nerve irritation in the head and neck. Mobilization and manual lymphatic drainage, modalities, and kinesiotape were effective to reduce pain and swelling.
IMPACT: Physical therapists are uniquely qualified to identify, evaluate, and treat post-operative swelling and nerve pain associated with CEA.

Citation: Simpson JA. Facial Swelling and Neuritis After Internal Carotid Endarterectomy in an 81-Year-Old Woman With Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus: A Case Report. Facial Swelling and Neuritis After Internal Carotid Endarterectomy in an 81-Year-Old Woman With Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus: A Case Report. 2024; (unknown volume):(unknown pages). doi: 10.1093/ptj/pzae118

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/39167733/
