PMID: 39167851
Title: Surgical management of iSGS in pregnant patients: Survey among North American expertise centers.

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: To identify, group and document the surgical management of idiopathic subglottic stenosis (iSGS) in pregnant women among North American centers with expertise in the treatment of airway stenosis.
BACKGROUND: Idiopathic subglottic stenosis is a rare airway disease that primarily affects women in their third to fifth decade of life. Symptoms of iSGS often worsen during pregnancy and can present as a threat to optimal maternal and fetal health; however there is a lack of evidence addressing the management of iSGS in pregnancy.
STUDY DESIGN: Cross-Sectional Survey Study.
METHODS: A twenty-four question survey was designed to query the surgical management, ventilation, and perioperative considerations for pregnant patients with iSGS. Twenty-nine North American academic tertiary care centers with airway surgery expertise were identified. A designated surrogate for each center was contacted by email to distribute and obtain results of the survey.
RESULTS: 17 centers responded. Most centers include differences in perioperative assessment such as frequency of consultation with a maternal/fetal medicine specialist. There is occasional use of a tocometer and rarely a non-stress test. Ventilation with intermittent jet ventilation or high-flow nasal cannula is favored. The surgical protocols include positional modifications, with pregnant patients in the left lateral decubitus position. The preferred timing for intervention is in the second or third trimester.
CONCLUSION: This is the first national survey describing surgical and perioperative considerations for the pregnant patient with iSGS among centers with airway expertise in the United States and Canada.

Citation: Gascon L, et al. Surgical management of iSGS in pregnant patients: Survey among North American expertise centers. Surgical management of iSGS in pregnant patients: Survey among North American expertise centers. 2024; 45:104459. doi: 10.1016/j.amjoto.2024.104459

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/39167851/
