PMID: 39160307
Title: Safety of robotic double-flap technique following proximal gastrectomy in the introductory phase compared with laparoscopic procedure: a propensity score-matched analysis.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Proximal gastrectomy (PG) is recommended for upper-third gastric cancer and esophagogastric junction (EGJ) cancer, preserving organ function while reducing postoperative symptoms. The double-flap technique (DFT) is one approach to minimize reflux after PG. However, laparoscopic PG with DFT (LPG-DFT) has drawbacks of increased complexity, such as hand sutures for anastomosis. Robotic surgery offers potential advantages for DFT reconstruction, but the safety of robotic DFT following PG (RPG-DFT) in the introductory phase is unknown.
METHODS: This retrospective study compared the outcomes of RPG-DFT with LPG-DFT. Data from 402 patients (321 LPG-DFT, 81 RPG-DFT) between 2009 and 2023 were analyzed. Propensity score matching balanced patient demographics and tumor characteristics. Surgical parameters, complications, and long-term outcomes were assessed.
RESULTS: The surgery time of LPG-DFT has stabilized in patients since 2016. Thus, LPG-DFT from 2016 was defined as a stable procedure. RPG-DFT was started in 2019, after minimally invasive DFT reconstruction had been mastered at our center. Therefore, we compared the surgical outcomes of introductory RPG-DFT with stable LPG-DFT. Matched analysis revealed that RPG-DFT in the introductory phase had significantly longer surgery times but less bleeding and shorter reconstruction times and hospital stays than stable LPG-DFT. Frequencies of short-term complications and reflux esophagitis were comparable in both groups. Although RPG-DFT in the introductory phase exhibited higher incidence of anastomotic stenosis than stable LPG-DFT, the incidence of anastomotic stenosis decreased over time.
CONCLUSIONS: This study demonstrated the safety of RPG-DFT in the introductory phase for EGJ and upper-third stomach tumors, with outcomes comparable to stable LPG-DFT. RPG-DFT offers shorter reconstruction time and less blood loss compared with LPG-DFT. However, anastomotic stenosis is a complication to monitor in early robotic surgery.

Citation: Hu Q, et al. Safety of robotic double-flap technique following proximal gastrectomy in the introductory phase compared with laparoscopic procedure: a propensity score-matched analysis. Safety of robotic double-flap technique following proximal gastrectomy in the introductory phase compared with laparoscopic procedure: a propensity score-matched analysis. 2024; 38:5824-5831. doi: 10.1007/s00464-024-11156-4

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/39160307/
