PMID: 39164613
Title: Prediction of transforaminal epidural injection success in sciatica (POTEISS): a protocol for the development of a multivariable prediction model for outcome after transforaminal epidural steroid injection in patients with lumbar radicular pain due to disc herniation or stenosis.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Transforaminal epidural injections (TEI) can alleviate symptoms and help to maintain physical functioning and quality of life in patients with lumbar radicular pain. We aim to develop a prediction model for patient outcome after TEI in patients suffering from unilateral lumbar radicular pain due to lumbar disc herniation (LDH) or single-level spinal stenosis (LSS). The secondary aim is to estimate short-term patient outcome differences between LDH and LSS patients, the association between psychological variables and patient outcome, the rate of additional injections, surgery and complications, and to explore the short-term cost-effectiveness of TEI.
METHODS: This study is designed as a multi-centre, observational, prospective cohort study in two large regional hospitals in the Netherlands. Patients diagnosed with unilateral lumbar radicular pain secondary to LDH or LSS and congruent with MRI findings, who are referred for TEI along usual care pathways, are eligible for study participation. A total of 388 patients with LDH or LSS will be included. A pre-defined set of demographic, clinical and radiological variables will be used as the predictors in the model. The primary outcome measure is the Numerical Rating Scale (NRS) for leg pain. Secondary outcome measures include back pain, physical functioning, perceived recovery, pain coping strategies, anxiety and depression and use of analgesics and physical therapy. Patients will be evaluated at baseline, 2 weeks and 6 weeks after treatment. NRS leg pain and Likert perceived recovery data will be used as the dependent variables in a generalized linear mixed model for prediction of TEI outcome, with internal validation of performance (explained variation) by bootstrap resampling. Cost-effectiveness for a period of 6 weeks prior to and after treatment will be performed with decision-analytic modelling.
DISCUSSION: Patients with severe lumbar radicular pain often request additional treatment when conservative care is insufficient. TEI can offer relief of symptoms. Currently, it is not possible to predict responsiveness to this treatment for individual patients. This study is designed to explore predictors that can differentiate between patients that will and will not have a positive outcome after TEI. This information may support treatment strategies for this patient group.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: This study is registered at ClinicalTrials.gov database under registry number NCT04540068 on September 1, 2020.

Citation: Verheijen EJA, et al. Prediction of transforaminal epidural injection success in sciatica (POTEISS): a protocol for the development of a multivariable prediction model for outcome after transforaminal epidural steroid injection in patients with lumbar radicular pain due to disc herniation or stenosis. Prediction of transforaminal epidural injection success in sciatica (POTEISS): a protocol for the development of a multivariable prediction model for outcome after transforaminal epidural steroid injection in patients with lumbar radicular pain due to disc herniation or stenosis. 2024; 24:290. doi: 10.1186/s12883-024-03801-1

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/39164613/
