PMID: 39174426
Title: Association between estimated glucose disposal rate and subclinical coronary atherosclerosis.

Abstract: BACKGROUND AND AIMS: The estimated glucose disposal rate (eGDR) is an easily accessible clinical parameter for assessing insulin resistance in patients with diabetes mellitus. In this study, we aimed to investigate the link between eGDR and subclinical coronary atherosclerosis in an asymptomatic middle-aged Korean population.
METHODS AND RESULTS: This study involved 4004 subjects who underwent routine health checkups with coronary multidetector computed tomography (MDCT) at Asan Medical Center from 2007 to 2011, among whom 913 had a follow-up analysis through 2014. The eGDR was calculated using: 21.16 - (0.09 ∗ waist circumference [cm]) - (3.41 ∗ hypertension) - (0.55 ∗ glycated hemoglobin [%]). Patients were categorized into three groups according to the tertiles of eGDR. Subclinical coronary atherosclerosis was defined by significant coronary stenosis (≥50%), presence of plaques, coronary artery calcification (CAC) score, and its progression. As a result, a lower eGDR level was associated with higher prevalence of significant coronary stenosis, plaques, moderate to severe CAC, and CAC progression. Compared to other markers or risk scores, eGDR was superior to other biomarkers of insulin resistance but did not provide additional information beyond classic cardiovascular risk models like the Framingham Risk Score and Pooled Cohort Equations.
CONCLUSION: Decreased eGDR values were significantly associated with higher subclinical coronary atherosclerosis burdens in an asymptomatic middle-aged Korean population. However, its clinical implications remain uncertain due to its weaker performance compared to established cardiovascular risk models.

Citation: Kim MJ, et al. Association between estimated glucose disposal rate and subclinical coronary atherosclerosis. Association between estimated glucose disposal rate and subclinical coronary atherosclerosis. 2024; (unknown volume):(unknown pages). doi: 10.1016/j.numecd.2024.07.004

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/39174426/
