PMID: 39179727
Title: Geometric changes and clinical risk factors from aortic arch to proximal internal carotid artery between normal subjects and moderate right carotid plaques.

Abstract: The anatomical features spanning from the aortic arch to the proximal carotid artery and the associated cardiovascular risks might significantly influence the development of right carotid plaque. Our research aimed to compare these anatomical and risk factors between individuals with no carotid plaque and those with moderate right-side carotid plaque within a Korean cohort. We conducted a retrospective, cross-sectional analysis involving 413 participants, categorized into a normal group (n = 339) and a right moderate carotid plaque group (defined as > 50% stenosis based on NASCET criteria) (n = 74). We collected data on cardiovascular risk factors and conducted laboratory tests. A 3D model of the carotid artery was constructed using cranio-cervical computed tomography angiography (CTA) data through semi-automated software. Measurements taken on this 3D model included the common carotid artery (CCA), internal carotid artery (ICA), external carotid artery (ECA), and carotid artery bifurcation (CAB) in terms of maximal vascular diameter, sectional area, angles of carotid bifurcation and ICA, and carotid tortuosity. When compared with the normal group, individuals in the right moderate carotid plaque group exhibited smaller angles at the carotid bifurcation, larger CCA diameter and sectional area (p < 0.01), advanced age, and a higher incidence of hypertension, diabetes, and stroke history (p < 0.05), along with reduced glomerular filtration rate (GFR) (p < 0.001). Multivariate analysis revealed that the sectional area of the bifurcation, calcification of the aortic bulb, and GFR were independently associated with the presence of right moderate carotid plaque (p < 0.01). Statistical analyses disclosed significant differences in both clinical risk factors and geometric changes in the region extending from the aortic arch to the proximal carotid artery among subjects with right moderate carotid plaque when compared to those without.

Citation: Hong An Ngo D, et al. Geometric changes and clinical risk factors from aortic arch to proximal internal carotid artery between normal subjects and moderate right carotid plaques. Geometric changes and clinical risk factors from aortic arch to proximal internal carotid artery between normal subjects and moderate right carotid plaques. 2024; 14:19632. doi: 10.1038/s41598-024-70653-7

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/39179727/
