PMID: 39179715
Title: Resting segmental speckle tracking strain and strain rate in stable coronary artery disease and revascularized myocardial infarction.

Abstract: Patients with acute coronary artery disease (CAD) exhibit reduced global and regional strain and strain rate (S/SR). However, knowledge about segmental S/SR in stable CAD patients is still limited. This study aimed to investigate whether resting segmental S/SR measurements differ in patients with chronic chest pain who have normal coronary arteries or stenotic coronary arteries, and to compare these measurements to those in patients with revascularized myocardial infarction (MI). We prospectively enrolled 510 patients with chronic chest pain referred for coronary computed tomography angiography (CCTA) and 102 patients revascularized after MI. All participants underwent transthoracic echocardiography featuring S/SR analysis. In addition to the patients with MI, patients with suspected CAD based on CCTA findings subsequently underwent invasive coronary angiography (CAG). We assessed global longitudinal strain (GLS) and averaged segmental peak longitudinal strain during systole (PLS), peak systolic strain rate (SRs), peak early diastolic strain rate (SRe), and post systolic shortening (PSS). We also determined functionally reduced segment percentages using differing S/SR cut-off values. There were significant disparities in all average segmental S/SR metrics between the No-CAD and MI groups. SRe was the only S/SR metric that differed significantly between the No-CAD and PCI groups. Differences in SRe, PLS and GLS measurements were observed between the No-CAD and CABG groups. The proportion of diminished segmental S/SR mirrored these findings. For the percentage of pathological segments with varying cut-off values, segmental SRe below 1.5 s- 1 displayed the most marked difference among the four groups (p &lt; 0.001). Revascularized MI patients or those referred to CABG present with diminished segmental S/SR values. However, among patients with chronic chest pain, only segmental SRe discerns subtle disparities between the No-CAD and the PCI group. The diagnostic accuracy of SRe warrants further exploration in subsequent studies.

Citation: Akay Caglayan H, et al. Resting segmental speckle tracking strain and strain rate in stable coronary artery disease and revascularized myocardial infarction. Resting segmental speckle tracking strain and strain rate in stable coronary artery disease and revascularized myocardial infarction. 2024; 40:2077-2086. doi: 10.1007/s10554-024-03200-0

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/39179715/
