PMID: 39176328
Title: Incidence of Acute Kidney Injury Post Transcatheter Aortic Valve Implantation (TAVI): A Single-Center Experience.

Abstract: INTRODUCTION: Transcatheter aortic valve implantation (TAVI) has dramatically changed the approach to treating aortic stenosis, particularly for patients unsuitable for surgical aortic valve replacement. Nevertheless, the possibility of quick deterioration of kidney function, known as acute kidney injury (AKI), post operation is considered one of the complications.
OBJECTIVES: The study aimed to determine the incidence of AKI in adults post TAVI.
METHODS: This retrospective cohort study focuses on patients who underwent the TAVI procedure at the King Faisal Cardiac Center at the Ministry of National Guard Health Affairs (MNGHA) in Jeddah, Saudi Arabia, from May 2016 to December 2022. Acute kidney injury post TAVI was defined based on RIFLE (Risk, Injury, Failure, Loss of kidney function, and End-stage kidney disease) criteria. Chi-square tests and independent sample t-tests were used to compare clinical and demographic characteristics between patients who developed AKI with those who did not, using an alpha of 5%.
RESULTS: The study involved 103 adult patients. Among them, 11 (10.7%) developed AKI post TAVI within seven days of the procedure, while 92 (89.3%) did not. Findings also revealed that patients with hyperlipidemia and a previous history of kidney diseases faced a higher risk of AKI post TAVI. Despite its valuable insights, the study has limitations due to its retrospective nature and small sample size.
CONCLUSIONS: The study emphasizes the importance of identifying patients with hyperlipidemia and pre-existing kidney conditions and closely monitoring renal function. While some preventive methods did not significantly impact AKI occurrences, further research is needed to refine preventive strategies.

Citation: Makki K, et al. Incidence of Acute Kidney Injury Post Transcatheter Aortic Valve Implantation (TAVI): A Single-Center Experience. Incidence of Acute Kidney Injury Post Transcatheter Aortic Valve Implantation (TAVI): A Single-Center Experience. 2024; 16:e65187. doi: 10.7759/cureus.65187

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/39176328/
