PMID: 39178636
Title: Reconstructive treatment using stent placement for type IIa+b lateral sinus dural arteriovenous fistulas complicated with sinus occlusion.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Cognard type IIa+b dural arteriovenous fistulas (DAVFs) in the lateral sinuses are often complicated with venous sinus obstruction and accompanied by clinical symptoms and a risk of hemorrhage. The purpose of this study was to assess venous sinus stenting as a viable alternative treatment in complex lateral sinus DAVFs and examine its efficacy and safety.
METHODS: We retrospectively examined patients diagnosed with type IIa+b DAVF in the transverse or sigmoid sinus with associated venous sinus occlusion who were treated via stent placement between April 2017 and June 2019.
RESULTS: Six patients were included in this study. Three patients had DAVFs in both the transverse and sigmoid sinuses, two in the transverse sinus and confluence of sinuses, and one in the transverse sinus. The most common symptoms were headache, dizziness, and limb weakness. At the last follow-up, three patients had significant improvement, and three were asymptomatic. Angiograms performed immediately after the surgery showed restoration of the anterograde venous drainage in all patients. According to the follow-up angiography results, two DAVFs were completely obliterated, and four remained as stable type I DAVFs. Most patients had satisfactory venous sinus drainage, except one who had in-stent stenosis.
CONCLUSIONS: Stent placement can restore sinus patency, improve clinical symptoms, and decrease intracranial hemorrhage risk. This approach may be an effective option for treating type IIa+b lateral DAVFs complicated by sinus occlusion.

Citation: Zhu H, et al. Reconstructive treatment using stent placement for type IIa+b lateral sinus dural arteriovenous fistulas complicated with sinus occlusion. Reconstructive treatment using stent placement for type IIa+b lateral sinus dural arteriovenous fistulas complicated with sinus occlusion. 2024; 245:108515. doi: 10.1016/j.clineuro.2024.108515

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/39178636/
