PMID: 39185376
Title: Management of Ulcers and Lymphorrhea in Lower Limbs after Charles Procedure via Supermicrosurgery.

Abstract: An 80-year-old female patient was admitted to the hospital due to recurrent lymphedema, ulcers, and lymphorrhea in the right lower limb for 7 years. The physical examination revealed changes after the Charles procedure below the right knee joint plane, with a 7 × 7 cm2 lymphorrhea area in the lower one-third plane of the anterior tibia area. Continuous lymphatic exudation and scattered ulcers could be seen. The dorsal artery of the foot could not be reached due to the thickening and fibrosis of the dorsal skin of the foot. The peripheral blood circulation was favorable. The glycated hemoglobin test revealed that blood sugar was not high and could be controlled. The color Doppler ultrasound of lower limb blood vessels revealed no obvious stenosis of arteries, with normal venous return. In addition, no varicose veins or deep venous thrombosis were observed. Based on these findings, the patient was diagnosed with primary lymphedema combined with lymphorrhea after the Charles procedure, complicated with diabetes. After admission, the patient underwent lymphaticovenous anastomosis on the right lower limb under general anesthesia. During the follow-up of 2 months after surgery, it was found that the lymphorrhea was alleviated, the ulcer basically healed, and the swelling on the right lower limb decreased. At the follow-up of 6 months after surgery, the lymphorrhea was eliminated and the ulcer was healed. There were 1-cm reduction in leg and back circumference and 10% volume reduction. The lymphedema quality-of-life score of this patient was 57 points after surgery.

Citation: Zhou Z, et al. Management of Ulcers and Lymphorrhea in Lower Limbs after Charles Procedure via Supermicrosurgery. Management of Ulcers and Lymphorrhea in Lower Limbs after Charles Procedure via Supermicrosurgery. 2024; 12:e6071. doi: 10.1097/GOX.0000000000006071

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/39185376/
