PMID: 39181033
Title: The biportal endoscopic posterior open-door laminoplasty with the use of mini-plate for cervical spondylotic myelopathy: Case report and literature review.

Abstract: INTRODUCTION: Biportal endoscopy, a newly developed technique rapidly applied in lumbar spine surgery, has recently been utilized for treating cervical spine diseases. We present a case of cervical spondylotic myelopathy managed with open-door laminoplasty fixed by mini-plate and performed with biportal endoscopy assistance.
PRESENTATION OF CASE: The patient, a 62-year-old woman, presented with gradually developing weakness in the lower extremities. CT and MR images showed cervical stenosis at C4-5 and C5-6. We performed a posterior open-door laminoplasty using biportal endoscopy assisted by a mini-plate. After completing the gutters on both sides of the hinge and open-door, we detached the spinous process from the lamina through endoscopic-guided burr grinding. The skin incisions of the portals on the open-door side were connected for direct fixation of the elevated lamina with a mini-plate. There was improvement in ambulatory capacity for the patient along with radiological evidence of decompressed cervical canal.
DISCUSSION: Endoscopic technology is increasingly employed in spinal surgery, with several studies documenting the utilization of biportal endoscopic techniques to facilitate open-door laminoplasty procedures for managing myelopathic cervical spondylosis. The procedures we report allow for safer and more efficient placement of the mini-plate that prevents door re-closing.
CONCLUSIONS: The potential applications of biportal endoscopic technology in open-door cervical spine surgery are worth considering, given the soft tissue damage caused by traditional posterior cervical spine surgery. However, the safety and effectiveness of this method still require more studies with a larger number of cases and longer follow-up to be substantiated.

Citation: Gong Z, et al. The biportal endoscopic posterior open-door laminoplasty with the use of mini-plate for cervical spondylotic myelopathy: Case report and literature review. The biportal endoscopic posterior open-door laminoplasty with the use of mini-plate for cervical spondylotic myelopathy: Case report and literature review. 2024; 123:110186. doi: 10.1016/j.ijscr.2024.110186

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/39181033/
