PMID: 39182330
Title: Design of the "EAST" strategy in patients with asymptomatic intracranial atherosclerotic stenosis.

Abstract: INTRODUCTION: Intracranial atherosclerotic stenosis (ICAS) is one of the most common causes of stroke worldwide and confers a high risk of stroke recurrence, despite aggressive medical therapy. Asymptomatic ICAS (aICAS) is a frequent finding on neuroimaging, and it's an independent risk factor for future stroke. Alirocumab is a monoclonal antibody that inhibits proprotein convertase subtilisin-kexin type 9 (PCSK9) and effectively lower low-density lipoprotein cholesterol levels. We hypothesize that extra alirocumab in addition to statin therapy (EAST) could stabilize intracranial plaques in patients with aICAS.
METHODS AND ANALYSIS: In this prospective, randomized, open-label, blinded end-point study, we will use high-resolution vessel-wall magnetic resonance imaging (HR-vwMRI) to evaluate the efficacy and safety of alirocumab in patients with asymptomatic ICAS. Eighty patients with aICAS (50 %-99 %) caused by unstable plaques will be assigned to the arm of alirocumab plus statin therapy, or the arm of statin therapy in a 1:1 ratio. Patients will undergo HR-vwMRI at recruitment and after 6 months. The primary outcome is changes in plaque features evaluated by HR-vwMRI after 6 months' treatment. This trial is being conducted at the first affiliated hospital of Nanjing medical university, China.
ETHICS AND DISSEMINATION: The study has been approved by the Ethics Committee of the First Affiliated Hospital of Nanjing Medical University. Written informed consents will be obtained from all participants. Study results will be published as peer-reviewed articles.
TRIAL REGISTRATION NUMBER: ClinicalTrials.gov, Identifier: NCT06080256.

Citation: Chen X, et al. Design of the "EAST" strategy in patients with asymptomatic intracranial atherosclerotic stenosis. Design of the "EAST" strategy in patients with asymptomatic intracranial atherosclerotic stenosis. 2024; 245:108507. doi: 10.1016/j.clineuro.2024.108507

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/39182330/
