PMID: 39181714
Title: Elective Spinal Transpedicular Ablation of the Basivertebral Nerve of the Vertebral Segment in Adult Spinal Deformity Patients.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Ablation of the basivertebral nerve (BVNA) innervating the vertebral endplate has become a standard treatment of vertebrogenic chronic low back pain (CLBP) arising from vertebral endplate damage. BVNA treatment of CLBP in clinical trials was successful and durable for pain relief and return to daily activities. This case review adds new information about older patients with adult degenerative spinal deformity (ASD) and associated comorbidities not previously described in clinical trials.
METHODS: One hundred and eighteen ASD patients with vertebrogenic CLBP in a community practice setting underwent 503 levels of BVNA (average 4.3 levels). Forty-one patients with minimal comorbidities (Group A) were compared to 77 patients with significant comorbidities (Group B). Visual analog scale (VAS 10 cm) and Oswestry Disability Index (ODI 100-point scale) were obtained before BVNA and at a last follow-up (LFU).
RESULTS: Group A VAS at LFU was an average of 2 cm, a 7 cm improvement. Group B VAS at LFU was 3 cm, a 6 cm improvement. At LFU, Group A ODI mean was 14 points or minimal disability, with a 39-point improvement, and Group B improved 28 points to 29 but remained moderately disabled. At LFU, the lumbar stenosis with laminectomy and BVNA subgroup of 26 had mean VAS 2 cm and ODI 28-point improvement but remained on average 21 points with a final low moderate disability. Eleven laminectomy and BVNA patients had continued posterior column pain related to radiculopathy, and or peripheral neuropathy, and sacroiliac joint pain in 30%. Mobile spondylolisthesis in 21 patients in Group B at LFU had a 6 cm improvement of VAS and 25-point improvement of ODI but remained moderately disabled on ODI. At LFU in group B, there was a 20% incidence of continued stenosis and radiculopathy symptoms. At LFU, Lumbar fusion was recommended in 9. Vertebral compression fracture (VCF) occurred in 9 after BVNA (10%) of Group B. These patients were older (mean 78 years), and all had significant osteoporosis. Eight fractures were within the area of the BVNA, and 1 was an S2 sacral fracture. These VCF patients were treated with vertebroplasty or kyphoplasty and continued preventive care with added teriparatide. At LFU, the VCF subgroup had a modest 6 cm improvement in VAS to 4 cm and continued to have significant severe to moderate disability (Oswestry Disability Index average of 38 points).
CONCLUSION: Clinical trials of BVNA treatment of CLBP found success and durability for pain relief and daily activities. Patients with ASD without comorbidities showed durable pain relief of vertebrogenic CLBP and return of daily activities similar to clinical trials. In those with comorbidities, the result was an improvement in pain and disability that could be diminished by the complications related to the comorbidities. This is new information about BVNA for older patients with spinal deformity and other comorbidities. This study could impact research practice and policy to expand indications of BVNA to patients with adult spinal deformity.
CLINICAL RELEVANCE: This case series represents the only literature regarding patients with adult spinal deformity treated with BVNA. The results were predictable and reproducible. Many patients were satisfied, would have the procedure again and would recommend BVNA to friends and family. This finding should encourage acceptance of patients with ASD for BVNA and, in fact, BVNA should probably be done before any fusion to limit and choose levels for inclusion in fusion.

Citation: Fogel G, et al. Elective Spinal Transpedicular Ablation of the Basivertebral Nerve of the Vertebral Segment in Adult Spinal Deformity Patients. Elective Spinal Transpedicular Ablation of the Basivertebral Nerve of the Vertebral Segment in Adult Spinal Deformity Patients. 2024; (unknown volume):(unknown pages). doi: 10.14444/8632

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/39181714/
