PMID: 39182833
Title: Multimodal Management of Ruptured Internal Carotid Artery Blood Blister-like Aneurysm: Technical Notes and Case Series of Surgical Muscle Wrapping and Fenestration Clipping Combined with Flow-Diverter Embolization.

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the effects of a multimodal management technique combining surgical muscle wrapping, clipping, and flow-diverter stent (FDS) placement in patients with ruptured blood blister-like aneurysms (BBAs) in the internal carotid artery (ICA).
METHODS: In a retrospective case series review from 2020 to 2023, 3 patients with ruptured ICA BBAs underwent multimodal management, an approach combining muscle wrapping, surgical clipping, and FDS embolization. The aneurysm sac was initially packed and wrapped with multiple tailored temporalis muscle grafts and then secured using fenestration clips, with good preservation of the ICA branches. The FDS was placed 2-3 weeks after the clipping.
RESULTS: All 3 patients had right ICA BBAs (mean age, 52 years). The modified Hunt and Hess grades ranged from 2 to 3, and the Fisher grades ranged from 3 to 4. The mean angiography follow-up time was 27.7 months (15, 31, and 37 months). There were no instances of symptomatic vasospasm or visible ischemic stroke during follow-up computed tomography. No patient required cerebrospinal fluid shunt implantation, and all achieved favorable neurological outcomes (modified Rankin scale 0-1). Follow-up digital subtraction angiography revealed no evidence of aneurysm recurrence or significant ICA stenosis.
CONCLUSIONS: We discuss a promising multimodal management approach for ruptured ICA BBAs combining muscle wrapping, surgical clipping, and FDS embolization. This technique was safe and effective in preventing re-rupture, achieving positive short-term clinical outcomes. Further research and more extensive studies are required to validate the long-term efficacy of this approach.

Citation: Lin HL, et al. Multimodal Management of Ruptured Internal Carotid Artery Blood Blister-like Aneurysm: Technical Notes and Case Series of Surgical Muscle Wrapping and Fenestration Clipping Combined with Flow-Diverter Embolization. Multimodal Management of Ruptured Internal Carotid Artery Blood Blister-like Aneurysm: Technical Notes and Case Series of Surgical Muscle Wrapping and Fenestration Clipping Combined with Flow-Diverter Embolization. 2024; (unknown volume):(unknown pages). doi: 10.1016/j.wneu.2024.08.092

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/39182833/
