PMID: 39184144
Title: Assessment of Voice Quality and Vocal Cord Paralysis After Endarterectomy.

Abstract: INTRODUCTION: Recurrent laryngeal nerve palsy is a rare but important complication after endarterectomy (CEA). The impact on voice quality after this procedure is also important. The aim of the study was to assess voice quality and vocal cord function after CEA.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: 200 patients were enrolled in the study. Inclusion criteria were indications for CEA and patient consent to the procedure. Endoscopic examination of the larynx was performed before the procedure, immediately after the procedure, on the 2nd day after the procedure, then 3 month and 6 months after the procedure. Voice was assessed by maximum phonation time (MPT), GRBAS scale, Voice Handicap Index (VHI) and the Voice-Related Quality of Life (V-RQOL) questionnaire.
RESULTS: In the study group, the results on the GRBAS scale were significantly worse and the average MPT was shorter compared to the control group. In the V-RQOL assessment, patients rated their voice as fair or good, significantly more often noticed that they had difficulty speaking loudly and being heard, and that they felt short of air when speaking. In VHI-30, the total score was significantly higher in the study group compared to the control group. Voice disorders after the procedure were reported by 68 patients, while a disorder of the recurrent laryngeal nerve was observed immediately after the procedure in 32 patients. Most vocal cord disorders were transient. Ultimately, 3% of patients were diagnosed with vocal cord paralysis.
CONCLUSION: Cranial nerves paralysis, including the recurrent laryngeal nerve, are a common complication after CEA. Majority the paralysis is transient, but requires appropriate diagnostic and therapeutic procedures. Vocal cord evaluation is a non-invasive and widely available examination and should be performed pre- and postoperatively after all neck surgeries. The incidence of voice disorders after CEA significantly affects the quality of life of patients and requires voice rehabilitation and patient care with psychological support.

Citation: Dorobisz K, et al. Assessment of Voice Quality and Vocal Cord Paralysis After Endarterectomy. Assessment of Voice Quality and Vocal Cord Paralysis After Endarterectomy. 2024; 20:369-375. doi: 10.2147/VHRM.S465573

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/39184144/
