PMID: 39184170
Title: Implementation of the kissing balloon technique using a perfusion balloon in acute myocardial infarction: a case report.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Prolonged antiplatelet-agent administration associated with stenting for acute myocardial infarction is not ideal in young patients. We successfully performed a perfusion balloon-based kissing balloon technique in the left anterior descending artery ostium in a young patient with acute myocardial infarction.
CASE SUMMARY: A 34-year-old female presenting with recurrent chest pain was diagnosed with ST-segment elevation acute myocardial infarction. Emergency coronary angiography revealed 90% stenosis of the left anterior descending artery ostium. Considering her age, lesion dilation using a perfusion balloon was preferred. This inadvertently impinged the left circumflex artery, causing chest pain and ischaemia-related hypotension with only a 10 s perfusion dilation balloon. We transitioned to an alternative 7 Fr guiding catheter and performed the kissing balloon technique using a perfusion balloon. This allowed prolonged inflation for 120 s, without complications. Optical coherence tomography of the lesion revealed layered plaques. Based on the patient's age and medical history, coronary spasm may be the aetiological factor underlying acute ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction. Coronary angiography 3 months post-discharge revealed no restenosis.
DISCUSSION: Regarding acute myocardial infarction, prolonged inflation with a perfusion balloon had higher frequency of non-stent-related interventions than that of semi-compliant or non-compliant balloons. In this case, the perfusion balloon resulted in chest pain and hypotension. Perfusion balloon-based kissing balloon technique was useful in this setting. Optical coherence tomography revealing the responsible lesions can help determine the cause of acute myocardial infarction in young patients; in our case, a layered plaque was observed. Layered plaques are associated with coronary spasm; therefore, initiating treatment of coronary spasm was considered herein.

Citation: Nakata M, et al. Implementation of the kissing balloon technique using a perfusion balloon in acute myocardial infarction: a case report. Implementation of the kissing balloon technique using a perfusion balloon in acute myocardial infarction: a case report. 2024; 8:ytae422. doi: 10.1093/ehjcr/ytae422

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/39184170/
