PMID: 39181444
Title: The cone repair allows right ventricle rehabilitation with excellent tricuspid valve function following the Starnes procedure.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: We present a case series of right ventricle (RV) rehabilitation after the Starnes procedure in patients with Ebstein anomaly (EA), applying the Cone repair of the tricuspid valve (TV) to achieve 2-ventricle or 1.5-ventricle physiology.
METHODS: This is a retrospective database analysis from 2 institutions in North America. We included all consecutive cases of Cone repair after the Starnes procedure. The data are expressed as median and interquartile range (IQR).
RESULTS: Eleven patients underwent RV rehabilitation between 2019 and 2023 after initial Starnes palliation at a median age of 27 months (IQR, 20.5 months). All patients were critically ill before their Starnes procedure, and 4 were on extracorporeal membrane oxygenation. Before the Cone repair, the median preoperative regurgitant velocity at the Starnes patch was 1.65 m/s (IQR, 1.3 m/s). During the Cone procedure, 9 patients required a concomitant pulmonary valve repair, of whom 3 needed a transannular monocusp patch. Four patients were successfully rerouted to a 2-ventricle repair, and 7 patients with a previous Glenn achieved 1.5-ventricle circulation. There were no cases of heart block and no deaths. Seven patients had trivial, 3 patients had mild, and 1 patient had moderate tricuspid regurgitation (TR) at a median follow-up of 11 months (IQR, 21.5 months). There was no significant TV stenosis; all patients had good functional status at the last follow-up despite severe RV dysfunction in 1 patient.
CONCLUSIONS: After the Starnes procedure, the Cone repair allowed RV rehabilitation, resulting in trivial or mild TR at a midterm follow-up. The Starnes procedure is a reproducible technique that no longer commits patients to lifetime single-ventricle physiology.

Citation: Ashraf SF, et al. The cone repair allows right ventricle rehabilitation with excellent tricuspid valve function following the Starnes procedure. The cone repair allows right ventricle rehabilitation with excellent tricuspid valve function following the Starnes procedure. 2024; (unknown volume):(unknown pages). doi: 10.1016/j.jtcvs.2024.08.024

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/39181444/
