PMID: 39184423
Title: Decannulation Dilemmas - Timing Tracheostomy Tube Removal in Children with Craniofacial Deformities - A Retrospective Study.

Abstract: INTRODUCTION: Tracheostomy decannulation in children with craniofacial deformities poses challenges due to airway obstruction and the developing brain. This study aimed to compare decannulation outcomes based on age at tracheostomy and duration of cannulation so as to identify the best time for decannulation for children with long-term tracheostomy.
METHODS: This retrospective study included 12 children at a single centre who underwent decannulation after prolonged tracheostomy for craniofacial deformities. Data on demographics, clinical features, decannulation process and outcomes were collected. Children were divided into two groups: ≤6 years (n = 7) and &gt;6 years (n = 5) at tracheostomy insertion.
RESULTS: All children underwent successful decannulation without immediate complications. One case of mild tracheomalacia and one of subglottic stenosis were treated pre-decannulation. Children ≤6 years demonstrated better post-operative adaptation in swallowing and speaking compared to the >6 years group. Notably, early and prolonged tracheostomy in the ≤6 years group was associated with easier adaptation post-decannulation. Social interaction was another challenge, particularly for the >6 years group.
DISCUSSION: The timing and duration of tracheostomy significantly impacts post-decannulation adaptation, likely due to factors such as neuroplasticity, muscle memory and psychological adjustment. This emphasises the need for comprehensive care, especially for older children. Early tracheostomy in children may allow them to adapt speech and swallowing skills, easing post-decannulation regain of skills. Conversely, older children with fully developed skills may struggle to relearn them after tracheostomy and decannulation. Age at tracheostomy and duration of cannulation influences decannulation outcomes in children with craniofacial deformities. Further research is crucial to develop targeted interventions for better post-operative care, particularly for older children.

Citation: Balaji SM and Balaji P. Decannulation Dilemmas - Timing Tracheostomy Tube Removal in Children with Craniofacial Deformities - A Retrospective Study. Decannulation Dilemmas - Timing Tracheostomy Tube Removal in Children with Craniofacial Deformities - A Retrospective Study. 2024; 14:56-61. doi: 10.4103/ams.ams_32_24

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/39184423/
