PMID: 39181765
Title: Fully-Covered Self-Expandable Metal Stent for Hepaticojejunostomy Anastomotic Stricture After Living Donor Liver Transplantation: A Case Series.

Abstract: INTRODUCTION: We prospectively evaluated 3 cases regarding the usefulness of fully-covered self-expandable metal stents (FCSEMSs) for hepaticojejunostomy anastomotic stricture (HAS) after living donor liver transplantation (LDLT), which could not be resolved with conventional treatment using a plastic stent.
CASE REPORT: All patients underwent LDLT with Roux-en-Y reconstruction; therefore, a short-type double-balloon enteroscope was used for the endoscopic procedures. HAS was observed on enteroscopic view of endoscopy in patients 1 and 2, and cholangiography revealed dilatation of the intrahepatic bile duct. The FCSEMS was successfully placed without the report of adverse events. The FCSEMS was removed after 16 weeks, and the HAS improved in both patients. In addition, stone clearance was also achieved in patient 2. On the other hand, FCSEMS was not placed in patient 3 because there was no indication of FCSEMS placement due to the multiple segmental biliary strictures (pruned-tree appearance on cholangiography). Subsequent deceased-donor liver transplantation confirmed recurrent primary sclerosing cholangitis. In this case, magnetic resonance cholangiopancreatography (MRCP) was not performed prior to cholangiography to rule out PSC recurrence.
CONCLUSION: FCSEMS placement may be effective and safe for HAS after LDLT, which is not resolved with conventional treatment using a plastic stent. MRCP should be used to identify HAS prior to invasive cholangiography.

Citation: Takahashi K, et al. Fully-Covered Self-Expandable Metal Stent for Hepaticojejunostomy Anastomotic Stricture After Living Donor Liver Transplantation: A Case Series. Fully-Covered Self-Expandable Metal Stent for Hepaticojejunostomy Anastomotic Stricture After Living Donor Liver Transplantation: A Case Series. 2024; 56:1593-1597. doi: 10.1016/j.transproceed.2024.08.009

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/39181765/
