PMID: 39195174
Title: Treating Aortic Valve Stenosis for Vitality Improvement: The TAVI Study.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Degenerative aortic valve stenosis (AS) is the most common valvular heart disease among the elderly. Once cardiac symptoms occur, current guidelines recommend aortic valve replacement. Progressive degeneration/calcification reduces leaflet mobility with gradual cardiac output (CO) impairment. Low CO might induce abnormal brain-aging with cognitive impairment and increased risk of dementia, such as Alzheimer's disease or vascular dementia. On the contrary, cognitive improvement has been reported in patients in whom CO was restored. Transcatheter aortic valve implantation (TAVI) has proven to be a safe alternative to conventional surgery, with a similar mid-term survival and stroke risk even in low-risk patients. TAVI is associated with an immediate CO improvement, also effecting the cerebrovascular system, leading to an increased cerebral blood flow. The correlation between TAVI and cognitive improvement is still debated. The present study aims at evaluating this relationship in a cohort of AS patients where cognitive assessment before and after TAVI was available.
METHODS: a total of 47 patients were retrospectively selected. A transcranial Doppler ultrasound (TCD) before and after TAVI, a quality of life (QoL) score, as well as a mini-mental state examination (MMSE) at baseline and up to 36 months, were available.
RESULTS: TAVI was associated with immediate increase in mean cerebral flow at TCD. MMSE slowly increase at 36-months follow-up with improved QoL mainly for symptoms, emotions and social interactions.
CONCLUSIONS: this proof-of-concept study indicates that TAVI might induce cognitive improvement in the long-term as a result of multiple factors, such as cerebral flow restoration and a better QoL.

Citation: Tartaglione D, et al. Treating Aortic Valve Stenosis for Vitality Improvement: The TAVI Study. Treating Aortic Valve Stenosis for Vitality Improvement: The TAVI Study. 2024; 12:(unknown pages). doi: 10.3390/diseases12080175

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/39195174/
