PMID: 39198887
Title: Rupture of the ascending aorta 6 months after TAVI procedure caused by TAVI prosthesis.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Transcatheter aortic valve implantation (TAVI) is indicated for elderly patients who often have severe comorbidities and high operative risk. Despite many advantages, it carries the potential for both early and late complications. The literature reports mainly periprocedural problems. This case report describes a rare instance of ascending aortic rupture as a late complication following TAVI.
CASE PRESENTATION: An 81-year-old male with severe aortic stenosis (AS) was a non-surgical patient due to a high operative risk (EuroSCORE II 14.08%) and comorbidities, including cardiovascular problems, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, myelodysplastic syndrome. During the TAVI procedure Medtronic CoreValve™ Evolut™ R-26 was implanted via the right femoral artery. Postoperative period elapsed without complications and the patient was discharged home. Six months later, the patient was re-admitted to the hospital on an emergency basis and transferred directly to the operating room due to ascending aortic rupture (EuroSCORE II 53.20%, GERAADA score 64.9%). Computed tomography angiography (CTA) showed aortic rupture with a multiple fresh blood reservoirs and thrombus around the ascending aorta originating from the spot where the nitinol frame of the TAVI valve was attached to the native aorta. Supracoronary excision of the ascending aorta with implantation of a vascular graft (Intergard Woven Graft 34 mm) was performed, preserving the earlier implanted TAVI valve. On the 9th day after surgery the patient's general condition deteriorated, he suffered from circulatory and respiratory insufficiency. Furthermore, a gastrointestinal bleeding with the need for gastro-, and colonoscopy and multiple blood transfusions occurred. Patient developed urosepsis and acute renal failure with the need for hemodiafiltration. Despite intensive treatment, further deterioration of the medical condition of the patient. and finally the multiple organ failure was observed. Patient died on the 50th postoperative day.
CONCLUSIONS: TAVI is a safe method of treating severe AS, especially recommended for non-surgical candidates. Rupture of the ascending aorta is a rare but serious complication of TAVI that usually occur during or shortly after the procedure. This case report highlights the importance of post-procedural monitoring for such TAVI complications, even in the late period following TAVI, and if such complications occur, taking the risk to perform a life-saving operation.

Citation: Hirnle G, et al. Rupture of the ascending aorta 6 months after TAVI procedure caused by TAVI prosthesis. Rupture of the ascending aorta 6 months after TAVI procedure caused by TAVI prosthesis. 2024; 19:501. doi: 10.1186/s13019-024-02980-9

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/39198887/
