PMID: 39195140
Title: Complex Pulmonary Artery Rehabilitation in Children with Alagille Syndrome: An Early Single-Center Experience of a Successful Collaborative Work.

Abstract: Objective: In this paper, we share our single-center experience of successful multidisciplinary management of patients with Alagille syndrome. In addition, we aim to highlight the need for an Alagille program for effectively managing these patients, in general, and particularly peripheral pulmonary artery stenosis associated with this syndrome. Study Design: This is a retrospective review of six children with Alagille syndrome and advanced liver involvement who underwent pulmonary artery reconstruction between 2021 and 2022. Cardiac diagnosis, co-existing liver disease burdens, management approach, and short-term outcomes were analyzed. Results: All the patients underwent one-stage extensive bilateral branch pulmonary rehabilitation. Concomitant procedures included repair of tetralogy of Fallot in one patient and repair of supravalvar pulmonary artery stenosis in two. One patient had balloon pulmonary branch angioplasty before surgery. In all patients, there was a decrease in right ventricular systolic pressure post-operatively. Three patients underwent liver transplantation for pre-existing liver dysfunction. At a median 3-year follow-up, all the patients were alive with their right ventricular systolic pressure less than half of their systemic systolic pressure. One patient underwent balloon angioplasty due to new and recurrent left pulmonary artery stenosis 13 months after surgery. Conclusion: Pulmonary arteries can be successfully rehabilitated surgically in the presence of complex branch disease. Patients with advanced liver disease can undergo successful complex pulmonary artery reconstruction, which can facilitate their future liver transplantation course. A multidisciplinary team approach is a key for successful management of Alagille patients.

Citation: Karim F, et al. Complex Pulmonary Artery Rehabilitation in Children with Alagille Syndrome: An Early Single-Center Experience of a Successful Collaborative Work. Complex Pulmonary Artery Rehabilitation in Children with Alagille Syndrome: An Early Single-Center Experience of a Successful Collaborative Work. 2024; 11:(unknown pages). doi: 10.3390/jcdd11080232

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/39195140/
