PMID: 39195314
Title: Monoclonal Gammopathy of Undetermined Significance and Associated Cardiovascular Outcomes in a Hospital Setting-A Fresh Perspective.

Abstract: There is a paucity of data on the cardiovascular implications of monoclonal gammopathy of undetermined significance, especially among hospitalized patients. Our study aimed to investigate the association between MGUS and cardiovascular outcomes in a hospital setting using the National Inpatient Sample database. MGUS patients were sampled using ICD-10 codes. The patients were stratified into two cohorts based on the presence or absence of MGUS. Comorbidities and cardiovascular outcomes were collected using ICD 10 DM codes. CV outcomes were evaluated before and after 1:1 matching for age, gender, and race. Furthermore, a sensitivity analysis was performed on the matched population, which excluded patients with diabetes mellitus, prior myocardial infarction, chronic kidney disease (stages 3-5), dialysis, hypertension, obesity, metabolic syndrome, cancer, antiplatelets, and oral anticoagulant use and was adjusted for smoking, dyslipidemia, and aspirin use to evaluate the cardiovascular outcomes. MGUS patients had more heart failure, atrial fibrillation, venous thromboembolism, aortic aneurysm, aortic stenosis, aortic regurgitation, mitral stenosis, mitral regurgitation, conduction disorder, cor pulmonale, peripheral vascular disease, and acute myocardial infarction. After matching, MGUS was associated with heart failure, atrial fibrillation, venous thromboembolism, aortic stenosis, mitral regurgitation, conduction disorder, cor pulmonale, and peripheral vascular disease. MGUS was linked to a wide spectrum of cardiovascular diseases in an inpatient setting. Further studies are needed to formulate appropriate recommendations for the screening and management of cardiovascular complications in individuals with MGUS.

Citation: Mustafa A, et al. Monoclonal Gammopathy of Undetermined Significance and Associated Cardiovascular Outcomes in a Hospital Setting-A Fresh Perspective. Monoclonal Gammopathy of Undetermined Significance and Associated Cardiovascular Outcomes in a Hospital Setting-A Fresh Perspective. 2024; 31:4432-4442. doi: 10.3390/curroncol31080331

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/39195314/
