PMID: 39198841
Title: Coronary protective effect of the J-Valve during transcatheter aortic valve implantation for patients with aortic stenosis and low coronary artery openings.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: In recent years, transcatheter aortic valve implantation (TAVI) has become a widely used treatment for low-risk elderly patients. As an alternative to TAVI via the femoral artery, transapical TAVI (TA-TAVI) is a better surgical choice for patients with severe vascular diseases. The J-Valve assists doctors in completing valve implantation easily using its positioning locator device, which prevents the self-leaflet from approaching the sinus wall. This function acts as coronary artery protection to avoid coronary occlusion. However, the clinical prognosis of J-Valve implantation for patients with aortic valve stenosis and low coronary openings is unclear.
METHODS: A retrospective analysis was performed on 30 patients with aortic stenosis (AS) and coronary openings measuring ≤ 10 mm in height. All patients underwent TA-TAVI with J-Valve implantation. Patients were screened using preoperative computed tomography three-dimensional imaging of the aortic root, and the safety and efficacy of the procedure were evaluated. The collected indexes included patients' general data, cardiac function, preoperative imaging parameters, intraoperative data and postoperative short-term prognosis.
RESULTS: Of the 30 patients in the study successfully underwent TA-TAVI and J-Valve implantation. Two patients required temporary cardiopulmonary bypass assistance during the operation due to heart failure. The implant success rate was 100%, and there were no deaths within 30 days postoperatively. No patients experienced intraoperative or postoperative coronary artery occlusion. Postoperative echocardiography, physiological state and laboratory test results indicated that all patients recovered well. The electrocardiograms remained normal after TA-TAVI, and heart function improved within 30 days.
CONCLUSION: Transapical TAVI with J-Valve implantation is a safe and effective treatment option for patients with AS and a low coronary artery opening. Preoperative coronary artery evaluation and the locators of the J-Valve are crucial in preventing coronary artery occlusion. This treatment regimen provides beneficial outcomes and warrants further multi-centre clinical research in the future.

Citation: Xu Q, et al. Coronary protective effect of the J-Valve during transcatheter aortic valve implantation for patients with aortic stenosis and low coronary artery openings. Coronary protective effect of the J-Valve during transcatheter aortic valve implantation for patients with aortic stenosis and low coronary artery openings. 2024; 19:500. doi: 10.1186/s13019-024-03012-2

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/39198841/
