PMID: 39202195
Title: Imaging of Carotid Stenosis: Where Are We Standing? Comparison of Multiparametric Ultrasound, CT Angiography, and MRI Angiography, with Recent Developments.

Abstract: Atherosclerotic disease of the carotid arteries is a crucial risk factor in predicting the likelihood of future stroke events. In addition, emerging studies suggest that carotid stenosis may also be an indicator of plaque load on coronary arteries and thus have a correlation with the risk of acute cardiovascular events. Furthermore, although in symptomatic patients the degree of stenosis is the main morphological parameter studied, recent evidence suggests, especially in asymptomatic patients, that plaque vulnerability should also be evaluated as an emerging and significant imaging parameter. The reference diagnostic methods for the evaluation of carotid stenosis are currently ultrasonography, magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), and computed tomography angiography (CTA). In addition, other more invasive methods such as 123I-metaiodobenzylguanidine (MIBG) scintigraphy and PET-CT, as well as digital subtraction angiography, can be used. Each method has advantages and disadvantages, and there is often some confusion in their use. For example, the usefulness of MRI is often underestimated. In addition, implementations for each method have been developed over the years and are already enabling a significant increase in diagnostic accuracy. The purpose of our study is to make an in-depth analysis of all the methods in use and in particular their role in the diagnostic procedure of carotid stenosis, also discussing new technologies.

Citation: David E, et al. Imaging of Carotid Stenosis: Where Are We Standing? Comparison of Multiparametric Ultrasound, CT Angiography, and MRI Angiography, with Recent Developments. Imaging of Carotid Stenosis: Where Are We Standing? Comparison of Multiparametric Ultrasound, CT Angiography, and MRI Angiography, with Recent Developments. 2024; 14:(unknown pages). doi: 10.3390/diagnostics14161708

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/39202195/
