PMID: 39200968
Title: Preoperative OCT Characteristics Contributing to Prediction of Postoperative Visual Acuity in Eyes with Macular Hole.

Abstract: Objectives: To develop a machine learning logistic regression algorithm that can classify patients with an idiopathic macular hole (IMH) into those with good or poor vison at 6 months after a vitrectomy. In addition, to determine its accuracy and the contribution of the preoperative OCT characteristics to the algorithm. Methods: This was a single-center, cohort study. The classifier was developed using preoperative clinical information and the optical coherence tomographic (OCT) findings of 43 eyes of 43 patients who had undergone a vitrectomy. The explanatory variables were selected using a filtering method based on statistical significance and variance inflation factor (VIF) values, and the objective variable was the best-corrected visual acuity (BCVA) at 6 months postoperation. The discrimination threshold of the BCVA was the 0.15 logarithm of the minimum angle of the resolution (logMAR) units. Results: The performance of the classifier was 0.92 for accuracy, 0.73 for recall, 0.60 for precision, 0.74 for F-score, and 0.84 for the area under the curve (AUC). In logistic regression, the standard regression coefficients were 0.28 for preoperative BCVA, 0.13 for outer nuclear layer defect length (ONL_DL), -0.21 for outer plexiform layer defect length (OPL_DL) - (ONL_DL), and -0.17 for (OPL_DL)/(ONL_DL). In the IMH form, a stenosis pattern with a narrowing from the OPL to the ONL of the MH had a significant effect on the postoperative BCVA at 6 months. Conclusions: Our results indicate that (OPL_DL) - (ONL_DL) had a similar contribution to preoperative visual acuity in predicting the postoperative visual acuity. This model had a strong performance, suggesting that the preoperative visual acuity and MH characteristics in the OCT images were crucial in forecasting the postoperative visual acuity in IMH patients. Thus, it can be used to classify MH patients into groups with good or poor postoperative visual acuity, and the classification was comparable to that of previous studies using deep learning.

Citation: Mase Y, et al. Preoperative OCT Characteristics Contributing to Prediction of Postoperative Visual Acuity in Eyes with Macular Hole. Preoperative OCT Characteristics Contributing to Prediction of Postoperative Visual Acuity in Eyes with Macular Hole. 2024; 13:(unknown pages). doi: 10.3390/jcm13164826

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/39200968/
