PMID: 39201030
Title: Combined Computed Coronary Tomography Angiography and Transcatheter Aortic Valve Implantation (TAVI) Planning Computed Tomography Reliably Detects Relevant Coronary Artery Disease Pre-TAVI.

Abstract: Background: Before surgical or transcatheter aortic valve implantation (TAVI), coronary status evaluation is required. The role of combined computed coronary tomography angiography (cCTA) and TAVI planning CT in this context is not yet well elucidated. This study assessed whether relevant proximal coronary disease requiring coronary revascularization can be safely detected by combined cCTA and TAVI planning CT, including CT-derived fractional flow reserve (FFR) calculation in patients with severe aortic stenosis. Methods: This study analyzed patients with successful cCTA combined with TAVI planning CT using a 128-slice dual-source scanner. The detection via cCTA of relevant left main stem stenosis (&gt;50%) or proximal coronary artery stenosis (&gt;70%) was compared to invasive coronary angiography (ICA). Results: This study comprised 101 consecutive TAVI patients with a median age of 83 [77-86] years, a median STS score of 3.7 [2.4-6.1] and 54% of whom had known coronary artery disease. Of 15 patients with relevant coronary stenoses, 14 (93.3%) were detected with cCTA, while false positive results were found in 25 patients. Only in patients with previous percutaneous coronary stent implantation (PCI) were false positive rates (11/29) increased. In the subgroup without previous PCI, an improved classification performance of 87.5%, being mainly due to 11.1% false positive classifications, led to a negative predictive value of 98.5%. Conclusions: Combined cCTA and CT-FFR with TAVI planning CT via state-of-the-art scanners and protocols as a one-stop shop can replace routine ICA in patients prior to TAVI due to its safe detection of relevant coronary artery stenosis, although diagnostic performance of cCTA is only reduced in patients with coronary stents.

Citation: Felbel D, et al. Combined Computed Coronary Tomography Angiography and Transcatheter Aortic Valve Implantation (TAVI) Planning Computed Tomography Reliably Detects Relevant Coronary Artery Disease Pre-TAVI. Combined Computed Coronary Tomography Angiography and Transcatheter Aortic Valve Implantation (TAVI) Planning Computed Tomography Reliably Detects Relevant Coronary Artery Disease Pre-TAVI. 2024; 13:(unknown pages). doi: 10.3390/jcm13164885

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/39201030/
