PMID: 39201057
Title: Lateral Spinal Artery Aneurysm Causing Subarachnoid Hemorrhage: Literature Review and Case Report.

Abstract: Ruptured aneurysms of the lateral spinal artery (LSA) causing subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH) are exceptionally rare. Unlike common aneurysms in the circle of Willis, LSA aneurysms present unique diagnostic and therapeutic challenges due to their complex anatomy. We reviewed the literature, examining case reports detailing LSA aneurysm occurrences, diagnoses, treatments, and complications, and our subsequent analysis highlights the clinical presentations, imaging findings, treatment methods, and anatomical features of the LSA. We identified 10 patients from 7 case reports of LSA aneurysm presenting with SAH, and combined with the present case, this comprised a total of 11 patients. An initial CT angiography identified LSA aneurysm in only 2 of 11 patients, while 5 cases were detected in transfemoral cerebral angiography. Seven patients had stenosis or occlusion of nearby arteries. Among the 10 patients treated, 7 underwent microsurgical clipping, and 3 had endovascular treatment; complications included PICA infarction and subdural hematoma. LSA aneurysms, though rare, should be considered in differential diagnoses of posterior fossa SAH. An accurate diagnosis often requires repeated imaging. It is proposed to individualize treatment strategies based on the unique anatomical structure and hemodynamic conditions of each patient, utilizing both endovascular and surgical approaches. Understanding the vascular anatomy and collateral pathways of the LSA is crucial for improving diagnostic accuracy and treatment outcomes.

Citation: Jeon YS, et al. Lateral Spinal Artery Aneurysm Causing Subarachnoid Hemorrhage: Literature Review and Case Report. Lateral Spinal Artery Aneurysm Causing Subarachnoid Hemorrhage: Literature Review and Case Report. 2024; 13:(unknown pages). doi: 10.3390/jcm13164910

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/39201057/
