PMID: 39200964
Title: Pathogenesis and Surgical Treatment of Dextro-Transposition of the Great Arteries (D-TGA): Part II.

Abstract: Dextro-transposition of the great arteries (D-TGA) is the second most common cyanotic heart disease, accounting for 5-7% of all congenital heart defects (CHDs). It is characterized by ventriculoarterial (VA) connection discordance, atrioventricular (AV) concordance, and a parallel relationship with D-TGA. As a result, the pulmonary and systemic circulations are separated [the morphological right ventricle (RV) is connected to the aorta and the morphological left ventricle (LV) is connected to the pulmonary artery]. This anomaly is included in the group of developmental disorders of embryonic heart conotruncal irregularities, and their pathogenesis is multifactorial. The anomaly's development is influenced by genetic, epigenetic, and environmental factors. It can occur either as an isolated anomaly, or in association with other cardiac defects. The typical concomitant cardiac anomalies that may occur in patients with D-TGA include ventriculoseptal defects, patent ductus arteriosus, left ventricular outflow tract obstruction (LVOTO), mitral and tricuspid valve abnormalities, and coronary artery variations. Correction of the defect during infancy is the preferred treatment for D-TGA. Balloon atrial septostomy (BAS) is necessary prior to the operation. The recommended surgical correction methods include arterial switch operation (ASO) and atrial switch operation (AtrSR), as well as the Rastelli and Nikaidoh procedures. The most common postoperative complications include coronary artery stenosis, neoaortic root dilation, neoaortic insufficiency and neopulmonic stenosis, right ventricular (RV) outflow tract obstruction (RVOTO), left ventricular (LV) dysfunction, arrhythmias, and heart failure. Early diagnosis and treatment of D-TGA is paramount to the prognosis of the patient. Improved surgical techniques have made it possible for patients with D-TGA to survive into adulthood.

Citation: Zubrzycki M, et al. Pathogenesis and Surgical Treatment of Dextro-Transposition of the Great Arteries (D-TGA): Part II. Pathogenesis and Surgical Treatment of Dextro-Transposition of the Great Arteries (D-TGA): Part II. 2024; 13:(unknown pages). doi: 10.3390/jcm13164823

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/39200964/
