PMID: 39200749
Title: Non-Invasive Ultrasound Therapy for Severe Aortic Stenosis: Early Effects on the Valve, Ventricle, and Cardiac Biomarkers (A Case Series).

Abstract: Background: Transcatheter aortic valve replacement (TAVR) was developed for inoperable patients with severe aortic stenosis. However, despite TAVR advancements, some patients remain untreated due to complex comorbidities, necessitating less-invasive approaches. Non-invasive ultrasound therapy (NIUT), a new treatment modality, has the potential to address this treatment gap, delivering short ultrasound pulses that create cavitation bubble clouds, aimed at softening embedded calcification in stiffened valve tissue. Methods: In the prospective Valvosoft® Serbian first-in-human study, we assessed the safety and efficacy of NIUT and its impact on aortic valve hemodynamics, on the left ventricle, and on systemic inflammation in patients with severe symptomatic aortic stenosis not eligible for TAVR or surgery. Results: Ten patients were included. Significant improvements were observed in hemodynamic parameters from baseline to one month, including a 39% increase in the aortic valve area (from 0.5 cm2 to 0.7 cm2, p = 0.001) and a 23% decrease in the mean transvalvular gradient (from 54 mmHg to 38 mmHg, p = 0.01). Additionally, left ventricular global longitudinal strain significantly rose, while global wasted work significantly declined at one month. A dose-response relationship was observed between treatment parameters (peak acoustic power, intensity spatial-peak pulse-average, and mean acoustic energy) and hemodynamic outcomes. NIUT was safely applied, with no clinically relevant changes in high-sensitivity troponin T or C-reactive protein and with a numerical, but not statistically significant, reduction in brain natriuretic peptide (from 471 pg/mL at baseline to 251 pg/mL at one month). Conclusions: This first-in-human study demonstrates that NIUT is safe and confers statistically significant hemodynamic benefits both on the valve and ventricle.

Citation: Trifunović-Zamaklar D, et al. Non-Invasive Ultrasound Therapy for Severe Aortic Stenosis: Early Effects on the Valve, Ventricle, and Cardiac Biomarkers (A Case Series). Non-Invasive Ultrasound Therapy for Severe Aortic Stenosis: Early Effects on the Valve, Ventricle, and Cardiac Biomarkers (A Case Series). 2024; 13:(unknown pages). doi: 10.3390/jcm13164607

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/39200749/
