PMID: 39200869
Title: Plasma Somatostatin Levels Are Lower in Patients with Coronary Stenosis and Significantly Increase after Stent Implantation.

Abstract: Background/Objectives: Stimulated capsaicin-sensitive peptidergic sensory nerves release somatostatin (SST), which has systemic anti-inflammatory and analgesic effects, correlating with the severity of tissue injury. Previous studies suggest that SST release into the systemic circulation is likely to serve as a protective mechanism during thoracic and orthopedic surgeries, scoliosis operations, and septic conditions, all involving significant tissue damage, pain, and inflammation. In a severe systemic inflammation rat model, SST released from sensory nerves into the bloodstream enhanced innate defense, reducing mortality. Inflammation is the key pathophysiological process responsible for the formation, progression, instability, and healing of atherosclerotic plaques. Methods: We measured SST-like immunoreactivity (SST-LI) in the plasma of healthy volunteers in different age groups and also that of stable angina patients with coronary heart disease (CHD) using ELISA and tracked changes during invasive coronary interventions (coronarography) with and without stent implantation. Samples were collected at (1) pre-intervention, (2) after coronarography, (3) 2 h after coronarography initiation and coronary stent placement, and (4) the next morning. Results: There was a strong negative correlation between SST-LI concentrations and age; the plasma SST-LI of older healthy volunteers (47-73 years) was significantly lower than in young ones (24-27 years). Baseline SST-LI in CHD patients who needed stents was significantly reduced compared to those not requiring stents. Plasma SST-LI significantly increased two hours post stent insertion and the next morning compared to pre-intervention levels. Conclusions: Age-related SST decrease might be a consequence of lower gene expression within specific hypo-thalamic nuclei as has been previously demonstrated in rodent animals. Reperfusion of ischemic myocardium post-stent implantation may trigger SST release, potentially offering protective benefits in coronary heart disease. Investigating this SST-mediated mechanism could offer valuable insights for future therapies.

Citation: Sütő B, et al. Plasma Somatostatin Levels Are Lower in Patients with Coronary Stenosis and Significantly Increase after Stent Implantation. Plasma Somatostatin Levels Are Lower in Patients with Coronary Stenosis and Significantly Increase after Stent Implantation. 2024; 13:(unknown pages). doi: 10.3390/jcm13164727

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/39200869/
