PMID: 39202287
Title: Computed Tomography Angiography as a Method for Diagnosing Intracavitary Coronary Arteries.

Abstract: The intracavitary coronary arteries (ICCA) course is a rare phenomenon, where the segments of the coronary artery go through the atria or ventricles of the heart. In the past, these changes were incidentally detected during invasive diagnostic procedures for other reasons, as well as during postmortem examinations. As the use of multidetector computed tomography angiography (CTA) becomes more widespread, it has emerged that the incidence of ICCA has been underestimated. We present images from two coronary computed tomography angiography cases, which document the existence of ICCA in patients with non-specific chest pain. In the first case, in a 66-year-old woman, in addition to confirming coronary artery disease without significant stenosis (CAD-RADS 2-category 2 in the coronary-artery-disease-reporting and data system), the course of the middle section of the right coronary artery (RCA) in the lumen of the right atrium was demonstrated. In the second case, in a 47-year-old man in whom the presence of atherosclerotic lesions in the coronary arteries was excluded (CAD-RADS 0), the course of the distal segment of the left anterior descending (LAD) was found in the lumen of the apical layers of the right ventricle. To sum up, it should be stated that coronary CTA is a non-invasive diagnostic method that allows for visualization of the ICCA. In coronary CTA performed for indications consistent with the guidelines of scientific societies, attention should also be paid to the possible intracavitary course of the coronary arteries. The identification of such a course of the coronary arteries may be useful when preparing the patient for potential future invasive procedures involving the cardiac cavities.

Citation: Gać P, et al. Computed Tomography Angiography as a Method for Diagnosing Intracavitary Coronary Arteries. Computed Tomography Angiography as a Method for Diagnosing Intracavitary Coronary Arteries. 2024; 14:(unknown pages). doi: 10.3390/diagnostics14161798

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/39202287/
