PMID: 39223599
Title: Comparison of Moses laser and Raykeen laser in patients with impacted upper ureteral stone undergoing flexible ureteroscopic holmium laser lithotripsy.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: To compare the operative effect and clinical efficacy of the Moses laser mode and the Raykeen holmium laser energy platform powder mode under flexible ureteroscopic lithotripsy in patients with impacted upper ureteral stones.
METHODS: From March 2022 to September 2022, 72 patients were divided into a Moses laser group and a Raykeen laser group according to surgical method, with 36 patients in each group. CT and ureteroscopy confirmed that all patients had isolated impacted upper ureteral stones. The stone volume (mm3), stone density (Hu) and severity of hydronephrosis were measured by CT. Postoperative complications were evaluated using the Clavien-Dindo score.
RESULTS: There were no complications of ureteral stenosis related to the laser treatment. The operative time and lithotripsy time were lower in the Moses laser group than in the Raykeen laser group (P < 0.05). The stone-free survival rate did not differ significantly between the two groups (P = 0.722). Stone volume was found to be positively correlated with laser energy and lithotripsy time in both groups (P < 0.01). There was no significant correlation between laser energy and lithotripsy time or ureteral stone density (Hu) in the Moses laser group (P > 0.05) or the Raykeen laser group (P > 0.05).
CONCLUSIONS: The contact mode of Moses technology and the powder mode of Raykeen laser lithotripsy can be used for the ablation of a single impacted upper ureteral stone. The ablation speed was related to the stone volume and the severity of polyp hyperplasia, not the stone density. We recommend the use of the powdered mode as a therapeutic measure for the treatment of impacted upper ureteral stones in flexible ureteroscopic lithotripsy.

Citation: Haitao L, et al. Comparison of Moses laser and Raykeen laser in patients with impacted upper ureteral stone undergoing flexible ureteroscopic holmium laser lithotripsy. Comparison of Moses laser and Raykeen laser in patients with impacted upper ureteral stone undergoing flexible ureteroscopic holmium laser lithotripsy. 2024; 24:190. doi: 10.1186/s12894-024-01576-8

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/39223599/
