PMID: 39228482
Title: Pan-Immune-Inflammatory Value is Superior to Other Inflammatory Indicators in Predicting Inpatient Major Adverse Cardiovascular Events and Severe Coronary Artery Stenosis after Percutaneous Coronary Intervention in STEMI Patients.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: The inflammatory response to atherosclerosis is a process that leads to coronary artery disease. Pan-immune-inflammation value (PIV) has emerged as a new and simple biomarker of inflammation. However, studies on the predictive power of PIV for major adverse cardiovascular events (MACE) or the degree of coronary artery stenosis are scarce. We aimed to explore the predictive ability of PIV for MACE and the degree of coronary artery stenosis in patients with ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction (STEMI) after percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) during hospitalization.
METHODS: This study included 542 patients who were diagnosed with STEMI and who underwent PCI between 2016 and 2023 and whose PIV and other inflammatory markers were measured. Using univariate and multivariate logistic regression analysis, risk variables for MACE following PCI and severe coronary stenosis during hospitalization were assessed to create receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curves and determine the best thresholds for inflammatory markers. Spearman correlation analysis was used to evaluate the correlation of PIV and other inflammatory markers with the Gensini score (GS).
RESULTS: Compared with the systemic inflammatory index (SII), platelet-to-lymphocyte ratio (PLR), and neutrophil-to-lymphocyte ratio (NLR), the PIV may have greater predictive value in terms of the occurrence of MACE and the degree of coronary stenosis after PCI in hospitalized STEMI patients. The correlation between the PIV and GS was strong.
CONCLUSIONS: PIV was superior to the SII, PLR, and NLR in predicting inpatient prognosis and severe coronary stenosis after PCI for STEMI patients.

Citation: Yang L, et al. Pan-Immune-Inflammatory Value is Superior to Other Inflammatory Indicators in Predicting Inpatient Major Adverse Cardiovascular Events and Severe Coronary Artery Stenosis after Percutaneous Coronary Intervention in STEMI Patients. Pan-Immune-Inflammatory Value is Superior to Other Inflammatory Indicators in Predicting Inpatient Major Adverse Cardiovascular Events and Severe Coronary Artery Stenosis after Percutaneous Coronary Intervention in STEMI Patients. 2024; 25:294. doi: 10.31083/j.rcm2508294

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/39228482/
