PMID: 39224103
Title: Unveiling the reliability of left atrial strain measurement: a dedicated speckle tracking software perspective in controls and cases.

Abstract: AIMS: Speckle tracking echocardiography increasingly supports left atrial (LA) strain (LAS) analysis for diagnosis and prognosis of various clinical conditions. Prior limitations, such as the absence of dedicated software, have been overcome by validated ventricular-based software. A newly automated real-time and offline LA-specific software have now become available on echocardiographs and dedicated workstations. This study aimed at comparing LA strain measures obtained from new fully automated software vs. traditional semi-automated ventricular-based methods in different groups of patients.
METHODS AND RESULTS: Two operators acquired LA images in a mixed population of healthy individuals and patients with pressure overload (hypertension and aortic stenosis) or pressure-volume overload (mitral regurgitation and heart failure). Subjects with prosthetic valves, heart transplant, or atrial fibrillation were excluded. Strain analysis was performed twice by old semi-automated software and new LA dedicated. LAS was then measured online on the scanning echocardiograph. Overall, 100 patients were analysed (41 healthy subjects, 28 pressure overload, 31 volume overload). LAS proved to be highly reproducible with both software. The dedicated method exhibited slightly superior inter- and intra-operator reproducibility. The online software results showed a nearly perfect reproducibility with offline software [intraclass correlation coefficient = 0.99 [0.99; 1.00]] in addition to being able to save an average of ∼30 s.
CONCLUSION: The recently developed fully automated software for dedicated LAS analysis demonstrates excellent inter- and intra-operator reproducibility, making it a reliable and efficient strain calculation method in routine clinical practice. Another advantage of online LAS calculation is time efficiency.

Citation: Mandoli GE, et al. Unveiling the reliability of left atrial strain measurement: a dedicated speckle tracking software perspective in controls and cases. Unveiling the reliability of left atrial strain measurement: a dedicated speckle tracking software perspective in controls and cases. 2024; 2:qyae061. doi: 10.1093/ehjimp/qyae061

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/39224103/
