PMID: 39227910
Title: The effects of percutaneous branch pulmonary artery interventions in biventricular congenital heart disease: study protocol for a randomized controlled Dutch multicenter interventional trial.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Branch pulmonary artery (PA) stenosis is one of the most common indications for percutaneous interventions in patients with transposition of the great arteries (TGA), tetralogy of Fallot (ToF), and truncus arteriosus (TA). However, the effects of percutaneous branch PA interventions on exercise capacity remains largely unknown. In addition, there is no consensus about the optimal timing of the intervention for asymptomatic patients according to international guidelines. This trial aims to identify the effects of percutaneous interventions for branch PA stenosis on exercise capacity in patients with TGA, ToF, and TA. In addition, it aims to assess the effects on RV function and to define early markers for RV adaptation and RV dysfunction to improve timing of these interventions.
METHODS: This is a randomized multicenter interventional trial. TGA, ToF, and TA patients ≥ 8 years with a class IIa indication for percutaneous branch PA intervention according to international guidelines are eligible to participate. Patients will be randomized into the intervention group or the control group (conservative management for 6 months). All patients will undergo transthoracic echocardiography, cardiac magnetic resonance (CMR) imaging, and cardiopulmonary exercise testing at baseline, 6 months, and 2-4 years follow-up. Quality of life (QoL) questionnaires will be obtained at baseline, 2 weeks post intervention or a similar range for the control group, and 6 months follow-up. The primary outcome is exercise capacity expressed as maximum oxygen uptake (peak VO<sub>2</sub> as percentage of predicted). A total of 56 patients (intervention group n = 28, control group n = 28) is required to demonstrate a 14% increase in maximum oxygen uptake (peak VO<sub>2</sub> as percentage of predicted) in the interventional group compared to the control group (power 80%, overall type 1 error controlled at 5%). Secondary outcomes include various parameters for RV systolic function, RV functionality, RV remodeling, procedural success, complications, lung perfusion, and QoL.
DISCUSSION: This trial will investigate the effects of percutaneous branch PA interventions on exercise capacity in patients with TGA, ToF, and TA and will identify early markers for RV adaptation and RV dysfunction to improve timing of the interventions.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: ClinicalTrials.gov NCT05809310. Registered on March 15, 2023.

Citation: Joosen RS, et al. The effects of percutaneous branch pulmonary artery interventions in biventricular congenital heart disease: study protocol for a randomized controlled Dutch multicenter interventional trial. The effects of percutaneous branch pulmonary artery interventions in biventricular congenital heart disease: study protocol for a randomized controlled Dutch multicenter interventional trial. 2024; 25:581. doi: 10.1186/s13063-024-08436-8

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/39227910/
