PMID: 39228860
Title: Safety and effectiveness of additional triamcinolone acetonide with endoscopic radial incision and cutting for benign stenosis of the lower gastrointestinal tract: A pilot study.

Abstract: OBJECTIVES: Radial incision and cutting (RIC) is being investigated as an alternative endoscopic dilation method for lower intestinal tract stenosis, providing a high technical success rate and improving subjective symptoms. However, several patients develop re-stenosis following RIC. In this pilot study, we aimed to evaluate the safety and efficacy of triamcinolone acetonide (TA) addition after RIC.
METHODS: RIC with TA was performed in 20 patients with lower gastrointestinal tract stenosis. We evaluated the rate of adverse events 2 months after RIC with TA. We investigated the short- and long-term prognoses, as well as the improvement in subjective symptoms, using a visual analog scale.
RESULTS: The delayed bleeding rate after RIC was 23.8%. Endoscopic hemostasis was achieved in all patients with delayed bleeding. No perforations were observed. The cumulative re-stenosis-free, re-intervention-free, and surgery-free rates 1 year after RIC were 52.9%, 63.7%, and 85.2%, respectively. Subjective symptoms, including abdominal pain, abdominal bloating, nausea, and dyschezia, significantly improved after RIC with TA.
CONCLUSION: Although additional TA administration after RIC could be safe, additional TA may not be effective on luminal patency after dilation. Further investigation is warranted.

Citation: Moroi R, et al. Safety and effectiveness of additional triamcinolone acetonide with endoscopic radial incision and cutting for benign stenosis of the lower gastrointestinal tract: A pilot study. Safety and effectiveness of additional triamcinolone acetonide with endoscopic radial incision and cutting for benign stenosis of the lower gastrointestinal tract: A pilot study. 2025; 5:e70002. doi: 10.1002/deo2.70002

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/39228860/
