PMID: 39225802
Title: The Dual-layer CGuard Stent Is Safe and Effective in Emergent Carotid Artery Stenting and in Tandem Occlusions: a Multi-centric Study.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Dual-layer stents have fallen into disrepute after several studies reported high rates of in-stent occlusions in acute stroke treatments. The CGuard stent is a new-generation hybrid dual-layer stent that has been designed to provide less thrombogenicity and to prevent peri- and postinterventional emboli. The aim of the study is to evaluate the safety and efficacy of the CGuard stent for the acute treatment of occlusion or high-grade stenosis of the extracranial internal carotid artery (ICA) in patients with acute ischemic stroke (AIS) with and without concomitant intracranial large vessel occlusion (LVO).
METHODS: All patients who underwent emergent carotid artery stenting (CAS) with the CGuard stent were identified and analyzed from the stroke registries from four tertiary German stroke centers. Clinical, procedural, and imaging data were evaluated. Stent patency within 72 h, intracranial hemorrhage, and modified Rankin score (mRS) at discharge were the safety and efficacy end points.
RESULTS: Overall, ninety-six patients were included (mean age 70.2 ± 11.8, 66 males (68.8%), median NIHSS score at admission 11 (7-17), IV lysis: n = 44 (45.8%)). Stent placement was successful in all patients. Eighty-three (86.4%) patients had tandem occlusions. In-stent occlusion occurred in 5 patients (5.2%) and 3 patients developed early in-stent stenosis (3.1%). Median mRS at discharge was 2 (1-4).
CONCLUSION: In this multicenter study, the use of the dual-layer CGuard stent for emergent CAS, particularly in tandem occlusions, was safe and resulted in low rates of in-stent occlusions.

Citation: Zidan M, et al. The Dual-layer CGuard Stent Is Safe and Effective in Emergent Carotid Artery Stenting and in Tandem Occlusions: a Multi-centric Study. The Dual-layer CGuard Stent Is Safe and Effective in Emergent Carotid Artery Stenting and in Tandem Occlusions: a Multi-centric Study. 2024; (unknown volume):(unknown pages). doi: 10.1007/s00062-024-01455-7

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/39225802/
