PMID: 39236977
Title: Transcatheter Structural Heart Disease Interventions and Concomitant Left Atrial Appendage Occlusion: A State of the Art Review.

Abstract: Atrial fibrillation (AF) is the most common arrhythmia in patients with valvular heart disease, and it can be associated with adverse patient outcomes. However, the need for anticoagulation to counterbalance AF-associated stroke risk may further lead to suboptimal outcomes via increasing bleeding events, especially in high-risk individuals. Because the vast majority of thrombi occur in the left atrial appendage, left atrial appendage occlusion (LAAO) is an established procedure for preventing ischemic stroke in patients with AF, while limiting anticoagulation-related bleeding events. Thus, the concept of combining an index procedure for structural heart disease (SHD) with LAAO seems promising for preventing future stroke events. A combined procedure has been described in aortic stenosis (transcatheter aortic valve implantation + LAAO), mitral regurgitation (transcatheter edge-to-edge repair + LAAO), and atrial septal defects (patent foramen ovale/atrial septal defect + LAAO). Evidence shows that a combined procedure can be safely performed in a "1-stop shop" fashion, without increased rates of procedural adverse events, with the potential to limit bleeding risk and provide prophylaxis against stroke events. This review analyses indications and clinical evidence regarding the safety and efficacy of combined SHD+LAAO procedures, while also providing insights into gaps in knowledge and future directions for the evolution of this field.

Citation: Dimitriadis K, et al. Transcatheter Structural Heart Disease Interventions and Concomitant Left Atrial Appendage Occlusion: A State of the Art Review. Transcatheter Structural Heart Disease Interventions and Concomitant Left Atrial Appendage Occlusion: A State of the Art Review. 2024; (unknown volume):(unknown pages). doi: 10.1016/j.cjca.2024.08.282

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/39236977/
