PMID: 39233968
Title: A Holistic Approach to Physiotherapy Treatment for Scheuermann Disease Along With Lumbar Canal Stenosis and Bilateral Lower Limb Radiculopathy: A Case Report.

Abstract: Scheuermann disease, a structural deformity marked by kyphotic alterations in the thoracic or thoracolumbar spine, is frequently accompanied by back discomfort and spinal wedging. Scheuermann disease predominantly affects the thoracic and thoracolumbar parts of the spine; thus, there is an indirect link between the two conditions. This case report describes a rare form of Scheuermann illness in which lumbar canal stenosis caused bilateral lower limb radiculopathy. A 50-year-old male with a confirmed diagnosis of Scheuermann illness complained of severe back discomfort, developing bilateral lower limb weakness, and sensory impairments. Clinical and radiographic investigations indicated lumbar canal stenosis at multiple levels, resulting in nerve root compression and radiculopathy. MRI reports of the lumbosacral spine were suggestive of severe, multiple-level degenerative changes. Spinal canal stenosis was noted at lumbar levels. Following the investigation findings suggestive of Scheuermann disease, the patient underwent posterior decompression and spinal fixation of L3-L4 and L4-L5. The outcome led to the decompression of the lumbar canal and the stabilization of the affected spinal segments. A personalized postoperative rehabilitation plan was developed based on the patient's complaints of pain, stiffness, and the difficulties he faced associated with the disease. Overall physiotherapy rehabilitation plays an essential role in the overall care of Scheuermann's illness and postoperative lumbar spine disease, aiding in functional restoration, enhancing quality of life, and encouraging long-term spinal health. Although exercise therapy is intense, it shows promising results and is beneficial for these conditions. Physical therapy in the postoperative period plays a significant role in promoting the patient's functional independence.

Citation: Kolhe PD, et al. A Holistic Approach to Physiotherapy Treatment for Scheuermann Disease Along With Lumbar Canal Stenosis and Bilateral Lower Limb Radiculopathy: A Case Report. A Holistic Approach to Physiotherapy Treatment for Scheuermann Disease Along With Lumbar Canal Stenosis and Bilateral Lower Limb Radiculopathy: A Case Report. 2024; 16:e66194. doi: 10.7759/cureus.66194

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/39233968/
