PMID: 39238925
Title: Cardiac Arrest Due to Pulmonary Embolism Without Clinical Features of Deep Vein Thrombosis in a Young Female: A Rare Presentation of May-Thurner Syndrome.

Abstract: Deep vein thrombosis (DVT) is a serious condition with a high disease burden. Pulmonary embolism is one of the disastrous complications of DVT. The etiology of DVT includes factors responsible for hypercoagulation, venous injury, and factors causing stasis in the deep veins. May-Thurner syndrome (MTS) is one of the rarely thought of causes of DVT. MTS is an anatomical variant where the right common iliac artery compresses the left common iliac vein against the lumbar vertebrae. This leads to thrombus formation and stenosis in the left common iliac vein at the site of cross-over, resulting in an iliofemoral DVT. We present a case of a young female who presented with acute bilateral pulmonary embolism and subsequent cardiac arrest. She was treated with mechanical thrombectomy, angioplasty, and stent placement under the umbrella of anticoagulant agents. We aim to present this case to highlight that MTS should be considered a differential etiological condition in iliofemoral DVT. MTS is a rarely considered condition by clinicians while evaluating patients with lower limb DVT. When unaddressed, MTS can lead to recurrent DVT, post-thrombotic syndrome, and fatal complications like pulmonary embolism. Clinicians should investigate for possible MTS in patients with left lower extremity venous thrombotic events, irrespective of the presence of other risk factors.

Citation: Dalal YD, et al. Cardiac Arrest Due to Pulmonary Embolism Without Clinical Features of Deep Vein Thrombosis in a Young Female: A Rare Presentation of May-Thurner Syndrome. Cardiac Arrest Due to Pulmonary Embolism Without Clinical Features of Deep Vein Thrombosis in a Young Female: A Rare Presentation of May-Thurner Syndrome. 2024; 16:e68596. doi: 10.7759/cureus.68596

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/39238925/
