PMID: 39231782
Title: The effectiveness of double dorsal dartos flap for urethroplasty coverage in distal hypospadias repair: A single surgeon approach to preventing urethrocutaneous fistula.

Abstract: PURPOSE: The concept of interposing double dorsal preputial flaps to cover the urethroplasty was introduced in 2005 to reduce the risk of urethrocutaneous fistula (UCF). Our study aims to compare the postoperative outcomes of urethroplasty for distal hypospadias between two groups: one receiving single preputial flap coverage and another receiving double flap coverage.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: We conducted a retrospective analysis study of boys with primary distal hypospadias who underwent surgery by the same experienced surgeon, at our department between 2010 and 2021. The study population was divided into two groups: Group A, which underwent urethroplasty coverage with single dorsal preputial flap, and Group B, which underwent coverage with double flap. Postoperative complications were compared between the two groups.
RESULTS: We collected 105 cases, comprising 51 in Group A and 54 cases in Group B. The mean age at surgery was 29 months in Group A and 24 months in Group B. Post-operative follow-up period ranged from 6 months to 8 years. Functional and cosmetic outcomes were judged excellent in 88.7%. Only 10 boys experienced complications requiring reoperation. UCF occurred in 5 patients from Group A, while no cases were reported in Group B (p = 0.024). Meatal stenosis was identified in three patients in Group A and in two patients in Group B (p = 1). No other complications, such as glans dehiscence or penile torsion, were noted.
CONCLUSION: Double dorsal dartos flap is an effective method for covering the new urethra and can be recommended in the treatment of patients with virgin distal hypospadias.

Citation: Mekki M, et al. The effectiveness of double dorsal dartos flap for urethroplasty coverage in distal hypospadias repair: A single surgeon approach to preventing urethrocutaneous fistula. The effectiveness of double dorsal dartos flap for urethroplasty coverage in distal hypospadias repair: A single surgeon approach to preventing urethrocutaneous fistula. 2024; (unknown volume):(unknown pages). doi: 10.1111/iju.15572

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/39231782/
