PMID: 39239369
Title: The clinical impact of lumbar epidural steroid injections prior to spine surgery for lumbar spinal stenosis.

Abstract: INTRODUCTION: Lumbar spinal stenosis is a common finding in the adult population. Lumbar Epidural Steroid Injections (ESIs) are often used in management of this condition, with conflicting evidence regarding their efficacy. Previous research has suggested a negative impact of ESIs on the postoperative outcomes when ESIs are administered preoperatively prior to spine surgery in this population. Our retrospective study was performed to gain greater insight into the impact of preoperative ESIs on postoperative outcomes following spine surgery in management of lumbar stenosis.
OBJECTIVE: Our objective is to determine how preoperative ESIs impact postoperative outcomes following spine surgery in management of lumbar stenosis.
DESIGN: Retrospective cohort involving 95 patients (39 patients who received ESI in the preoperative timeframe and 56 patients who did not) who underwent surgical management of lumbar stenosis. Data for patients with preoperative ESI was compared to those without preoperative ESI administration.
SETTING: Institutional.
INTERVENTIONS: Not Applicable.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: PROMIS (Patient-Reported Outcomes Measurement Information System) scores, VAS (Visual Analog Scale) pain scores, ODI (Oswestry Disability Index), NDI (Neck Disability Index).
RESULTS: At baseline (time of surgery), the ESI group had significantly higher ODI, PROMIS pain, PROMIS pain interference, VAS leg and lower PROMIS physical function, but no significant difference in PROMIS satisfaction, VAS back and NDI, compared to the Non-ESI group. At 3 months after surgery, both the ESI and Non-ESI groups demonstrated a significant decrease in VAS back, VAS leg, PROMIS pain and ODI from baseline scores. The improvement in PROMIS pain at 3 months after surgery was larger in the ESI group than the Non-ESI group.
CONCLUSIONS: Preoperative ESI administration did not lead to worsening of disability, function, or pain symptoms in the short-term postoperative period following surgical management of lumbar stenosis. Patients had short term improvements in radicular pain following surgical management of lumbar stenosis, regardless of preoperative ESI administration.

Citation: Wentz K, et al. The clinical impact of lumbar epidural steroid injections prior to spine surgery for lumbar spinal stenosis. The clinical impact of lumbar epidural steroid injections prior to spine surgery for lumbar spinal stenosis. 2022; 1:100104. doi: 10.1016/j.inpm.2022.100104

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/39239369/
