PMID: 39237948
Title: Comparative efficacy of unilateral biportal and percutaneous endoscopic techniques in unilateral laminectomy for bilateral decompression (ULBD) for lumbar spinal stenosis.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Unilateral laminotomy for bilateral decompression (ULBD) has yielded positive results in the treatment of lumbar spinal stenosis (LSS). Unilateral biportal ULBD (UB-ULBD) and percutaneous endoscopic ULBD (PE-ULBD) are gaining popularity because of the progress that has been made in minimally invasive surgery (MIS). The objective of this study was to evaluate and compare the radiographic and clinical results of UB-ULBD and PE-ULBD.
METHODS: This study retrospectively enrolled patients who underwent ULBD surgery for LSS. The patients were categorized into two groups on the basis of the surgical method: the UB-ULBD group and the PE-ULBD group. Data on the general demographic data, surgical details, clinical efficacy, radiography and complications were compared between the two groups were compared. The minimum follow-up duration was 12 months.
RESULTS: A total of 113 LSS patients who had undergone ULBD at our institution were included, of whom 61 patients underwent UB-ULBD surgery and 52 underwent PE-ULBD surgery. The UB-ULBD group had a significantly shorter operation time (P < 0.05). The facet was significantly better preserved in the UB-ULBD group than in the PE-ULBD group, and the angle of ipsilateral facet joint resection in the UE-ULBD group was significantly smaller (P < 0.05). The ODI score, VAS score and modified Macnab criteria improved postoperatively in both groups. The UB-ULBD group had a 95.08% rate of excellent or good patient outcomes, whereas the PE-ULBD group had a 92.30% rate.
CONCLUSION: Both UB-ULBD and PE-ULBD can provide favourable clinical outcomes when used to treat LSS. UB-ULBD is beneficial because of its shorter operation time, smaller angle of ipsilateral facet joint resection and better facet preservation, making it a viable and safe option for treating LSS while ensuring spinal stability.

Citation: Tang Z, et al. Comparative efficacy of unilateral biportal and percutaneous endoscopic techniques in unilateral laminectomy for bilateral decompression (ULBD) for lumbar spinal stenosis. Comparative efficacy of unilateral biportal and percutaneous endoscopic techniques in unilateral laminectomy for bilateral decompression (ULBD) for lumbar spinal stenosis. 2024; 25:713. doi: 10.1186/s12891-024-07825-z

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/39237948/
