PMID: 39237772
Title: Clinical features, operative management and surgical results of first Draf III procedure, revision Draf III approach and the use of mucosal flaps and stents: a systematic review.

Abstract: OBJECTIVES: Draf III procedure is a challenging endoscopic technique, which has gradually gained an increasing popularity in treating frontal sinus pathologies. The main aim of this systematic review is to offer a comprehensive overview on clinical indications, pre-operative evaluation, surgical techniques, post-operative management and complications of the Draf III procedure. As a step forward, such issues have been comparatively evaluated as referred to patients who underwent primary Draf III procedure and revision DRAF III one). Finally, surgical outcomes related to mucosal flaps and stents to prevent re-stenosis are analyzed.
METHODS: A systematic literature review has been performed following PRISMA 2020 checklist statement. An automated search has been carried out by applying an extensive set of queries on the Embase/PubMed, Scopus and Cochrane databases, relating to papers published from 2000 to 2021.
RESULTS: Frontal chronic refractory sinusitis is the most frequent indication to Draf III procedure (72%), followed by mucoceles (11%) and skull base or paranasal tumors (10%). The success rate of primary and revision Draf III are 83.5% and 71%, respectively. The re-stenosis phenomenon seems to depend on allergic mechanism and polyposis). The use of mucosal flaps could improve the Draf III efficacy, better than the use of stents (87 vs 72% of neo-ostium patency).
CONCLUSION: Draf III is a safe and highly effective surgical technique. However, some limited clinical conditions require some careful technical features, such as the use of mucosal flap, in order to prevent re-stenosis.

Citation: Chiari F, et al. Clinical features, operative management and surgical results of first Draf III procedure, revision Draf III approach and the use of mucosal flaps and stents: a systematic review. Clinical features, operative management and surgical results of first Draf III procedure, revision Draf III approach and the use of mucosal flaps and stents: a systematic review. 2024; (unknown volume):(unknown pages). doi: 10.1007/s00405-024-08957-7

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/39237772/
