PMID: 39240600
Title: Safety and feasibility of "Pant-Shaped" anastomosis in laparoscopic-assisted total gastrectomy: Study of 210 cases at a single center.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Advancements in laparoscopic technology have popularized laparoscopic total gastrectomy over traditional open surgery, yet postoperative complications like anastomotic leakage and stenosis persist, particularly in esophagojejunostomy. To address this, since 2017, the authors have introduced the "Pant-Shaped" esophagojejunostomy as an improvement over the classic Roux-en-Y method, especially beneficial for patients with small intestinal diameters or those with gastric body cancer or Siewert III.
OBJECTIVE: To assess the viability and safety of employing 'Pant-Shaped' anastomosis following laparoscopic-assisted total gastrectomy.
METHODS: A method of descriptive case study was used. In our department of the First Affiliated Hospital of Wannan Medical College, records of 210 patients who underwent laparoscopic-assisted total gastrectomy for gastric body cancer or adenocarcinoma at the junction of esophagus and jejunum with "Pant-Shaped" anastomosis between January 2017 and December 2022 were examined. Clinicopathological features and postoperative conditions were also examined and assessed.
RESULTS: The mean age of the 164 male and 46 female research participants was 69.2 ± 8.3 years. There was a mean estimated blood loss of 63.4 ± 29.7 ml, an anastomosis time of 25.9 ± 3.0 minutes, an operation time of 208.2 ± 40.4 minutes, and a postoperative hospital stay of 12.2 ± 8.0 days. Nine patients (4.3%) experienced postoperative problems (Clavien-Dindo > grade II), including two episodes of anastomotic leakage that were resolved with irrigation and drainage, anti-infection therapy, and nutritional assistance. After an unforeseen reoperation, two cases of duodenal stump leaking were resolved. Anastamotic hemorrhage was treated with hemostasis and blood transfusion, and the patient made a full recovery. Due to a Peterson's hernia, one patient required emergent open surgery. three months subsequent to LATG.
CONCLUSIONS: The "Pant-Shaped" anastomosis method after laparoscopic-assisted total gastrectomy is simple, easy to promote, and has fewer complications. It is a safe and feasible modified method for esophagojejunostomy, especially suitable for patients with poor intestinal dilation and contraction ability and small jejunal diameter.

Citation: Wang B, et al. Safety and feasibility of "Pant-Shaped" anastomosis in laparoscopic-assisted total gastrectomy: Study of 210 cases at a single center. Safety and feasibility of "Pant-Shaped" anastomosis in laparoscopic-assisted total gastrectomy: Study of 210 cases at a single center. 2024; (unknown volume):(unknown pages). doi: 10.3233/THC-241093

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/39240600/
