PMID: 39243833
Title: Bilateral STA-MCA bypass for Moyamoya angiopathy associated with severe erythrodermic psoriasis.

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: We report on the uncommon association between severe erythrodermic psoriasis and moyamoya angiopathy (MMA), a progressive cerebrovascular disorder characterized by steno-occlusive changes in the circle of Willis. Concomitant moyamoya and severe erythrodermic psoriasis is a rare pathology, with unknown pathogenesis. MMA with severe erythrodermic psoriasis, even in the setting of stroke, is often managed with non-curative medical intervention alone, due to concerns for surgical instability. Here we show with appropriate surgical consideration and medical management, patients can undergo curative surgical management, and remain stroke free during follow-up.
CASE REPORT: The patient, a 52-year-old female, with refractory psoriasis, presented with neurological deficits, leading to the diagnosis of bilateral moyamoya arteriopathy. Patients with these co-existing conditions have historically only been medially managed, due to concerns for surgical instability and inadequate candidacy. A comprehensive stroke workup revealed severe stenosis in the internal carotid arteries. A two-stage surgical revascularization, including right superficial temporal artery-middle cerebral artery (STA-MCA) bypass and subsequent left STA-MCA bypass, was successfully performed. Postoperatively, the patient experienced a severe psoriasis flare, requiring meticulous management to ensure post-operative surgical stability.
CONCLUSIONS: With appropriate medical and surgical management, the patient was amenable for curative surgical intervention. The successful surgical intervention, following medical optimization of psoriasis, demonstrated efficacy in preventing future cerebral ischemia events in this challenging patient.

Citation: Jha R, et al. Bilateral STA-MCA bypass for Moyamoya angiopathy associated with severe erythrodermic psoriasis. Bilateral STA-MCA bypass for Moyamoya angiopathy associated with severe erythrodermic psoriasis. 2024; 33:107997. doi: 10.1016/j.jstrokecerebrovasdis.2024.107997

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/39243833/
