PMID: 39240257
Title: Intracoronary ECG ST-segment shift remission time during reactive myocardial hyperemia: a new method to assess hemodynamic coronary stenosis severity.

Abstract: Fractional flow reserve (FFR) measurements are recommended for assessing hemodynamic coronary stenosis severity. Intracoronary ECG (icECG) is easily obtainable and highly sensitive in detecting myocardial ischemia due to its close vicinity to the myocardium. We hypothesized that the remission time of myocardial ischemia on icECG after a controlled coronary occlusion accurately detects hemodynamically relevant coronary stenosis. This retrospective, observational study included patients with chronic coronary syndrome undergoing hemodynamic coronary stenosis assessment immediately following a strictly 1-min proximal coronary artery balloon occlusion with simultaneous icECG recording. icECG was used for a beat-to-beat analysis of the ST-segment shift during reactive hyperemia immediately following balloon deflation. The time from coronary balloon deflation until the ST-segment shift reached 37% of its maximum level, i.e., icECG ST-segment shift remission time (τ-icECG in seconds), was obtained by an automatic algorithm. τ-icECG was tested against the simultaneously obtained reactive hyperemia FFR at a threshold of 0.80 as a reference parameter. From 120 patients, 139 icECGs (age, 68 ± 10 yr old) were analyzed. Receiver operating characteristic (ROC) analysis of τ-icECG for the detection of hemodynamically relevant coronary stenosis at an FFR of ≤0.80 was performed. The area under the ROC curve was equal to 0.621 (P = 0.0363) at an optimal τ-icECG threshold of 8 s (sensitivity, 61%; specificity, 67%). τ-icECG correlated inversely and linearly with FFR (P = 0.0327). This first proof-of-concept study demonstrates that τ-icECG, a measure of icECG ST segment-shift remission after a 1-min coronary artery balloon occlusion accurately detects hemodynamically relevant coronary artery stenosis according to FFR at a threshold of ≥8 s.NEW &amp; NOTEWORTHY Invasive hemodynamic measurements are recommended by the current cardiology guidelines to guide percutaneous coronary interventions in the setting of chronic coronary syndrome. However, those pressure-derived indices demonstrate several theoretical and practical limitations. Thus, this study demonstrates the accuracy of a novel, pathophysiology-driven approach using intracoronary ECG for the identification of hemodynamically relevant coronary lesions by quantitatively assessing myocardial ischemia remission.

Citation: Bigler MR, et al. Intracoronary ECG ST-segment shift remission time during reactive myocardial hyperemia: a new method to assess hemodynamic coronary stenosis severity. Intracoronary ECG ST-segment shift remission time during reactive myocardial hyperemia: a new method to assess hemodynamic coronary stenosis severity. 2024; 327:H1124-H1131. doi: 10.1152/ajpheart.00481.2024

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/39240257/
