PMID: 39248346
Title: Cervical Disc Arthroplasty Device Failure Causing Progressive Cervical Myelopathy and Requiring Revision Cervical Corpectomy.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Cervical disc arthroplasty is a well-established alternative to anterior cervical fusion but requires precise placement for optimal outcomes. We present the case of a 2-level cervical disc arthroplasty with suboptimal implantation of the interbody devices, requiring revision corpectomy. Supplemental video, Supplemental Digital Content 1 (http://links.lww.com/CLINSPINE/A358) content of the revision surgery is also provided. This report highlights the importance of proper implant sizing and position and reviews the nuances of surgical revision.
METHODS: A retrospective review of the clinical and radiographic data was performed from prior to the index operation through the 3-month postoperative period after the surgical revision.
RESULTS: The patient presented approximately 2 years post-cervical arthroplasty with increasing neck pain and early cervical myelopathy. An imaging workup revealed severe cervical stenosis at the caudal level with cord compression and concern for device failure. Intraoperatively, the core of the caudal device was found to have ejected into the spinal canal. A cervical corpectomy of the intervening vertebra with the removal of both devices was performed. The patient had a complete neurologic recovery.
CONCLUSION: Although failure of a cervical disc arthroplasty device is rare, the likelihood can be significantly increased with poor sizing (over or under sizing), asymmetric placement, endplate violation, or poor patient selection. In the case presented herein, early device failure was unrecognized, and the patient went on to develop progressive cervical myelopathy requiring revision corpectomy.

Citation: Parish J, et al. Cervical Disc Arthroplasty Device Failure Causing Progressive Cervical Myelopathy and Requiring Revision Cervical Corpectomy. Cervical Disc Arthroplasty Device Failure Causing Progressive Cervical Myelopathy and Requiring Revision Cervical Corpectomy. 2024; (unknown volume):(unknown pages). doi: 10.1097/BSD.0000000000001691

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/39248346/
