PMID: 39256220
Title: Microbial growth on temporary pacemaker leads post-TAVR: pathogen spectrum and clinical implications.

Abstract: BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVE: Transcatheter aortic valve replacement (TAVR) is an established treatment option for patients with symptomatic severe aortic stenosis across all stages of surgical risk. Rapid pacing during the procedure and the risk for the occurrence of conduction disturbances after TAVR requires the pre-interventional insertion of a temporary pacemaker (TP). However, this approach poses risks, including the risk of infection. For this reason, the following study aimed to investigate microbial growth on temporary pacemaker leads and its association with outcome post-TAVR and to identify associated pathogens and related risk factors.
METHODS: A prospective study was conducted including 344 patients undergoing TAVR at the Heart Centre Bonn. Of these, 97 patients did not require TP leads as they already had permanent pacemakers; this group was considered as comparison group. The TP leads of the remaining 247 patients were removed, sonicated, and cultured to investigate bacterial growth over a period of 14 days. Finally, we compared patients without microbial growth (n = 184) and patients with microbial growth (n = 63). The primary endpoint of the study was 30-day all-cause mortality, secondary endpoints were periprocedural infections, the length of the postprocedural hospital stay, 30-day major vascular complications and the 30-day stroke rate.
RESULTS: The majority of cases (74.5%) showed no bacterial growth. In the remaining cases (25.5%), diverse microorganisms were identified, mostly non-pathogenic bacteria. The statistical analysis revealed no significant differences between groups according to microbial growth in terms of 30-day mortality (p = 0.446), postprocedural hospital stay (p = 0.401), periprocedural infections (p = 0.434), 30-day major vascular complications (p = 1.0), and 30-day stroke rate (p = 1.0). Notably, the timing of sheath insertion was significantly associated with microbial growth; sheath placement more than 2 days prior to the procedure was associated with a significantly higher risk of microbial growth (OR: 2.1; 95% CI 1.1-4.3) (p = 0.030).
CONCLUSIONS: The presence of temporary leads does not significantly impact clinical outcomes, irrespective of bacterial growth on the lead. However, the timing and duration of sheath placement plays a crucial role in contamination incidence. Thus, temporary leads/sheaths should be placed shortly before the procedure and removed promptly to reduce the risk of contamination/infection.

Citation: Mousa Basha M, et al. Microbial growth on temporary pacemaker leads post-TAVR: pathogen spectrum and clinical implications. Microbial growth on temporary pacemaker leads post-TAVR: pathogen spectrum and clinical implications. 2024; (unknown volume):(unknown pages). doi: 10.1007/s00392-024-02543-x

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/39256220/
