PMID: 39254197
Title: First Fully Endoscopic End-to-End Colonic Anastomoses With a Novel Endoscopic Device: A Feasibility Study in a Porcine Model.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Continuous advancements and breakthroughs in flexible gastrointestinal endoscopy have led to alternatives to colonic anastomosis.
OBJECTIVE: This study aimed to evaluate the feasibility and safety of end-to-end colonic anastomosis using a single flexible endoscope with the novel through-the-scope "bow-tie" (TTS-BT) device and conventional metal clips in a porcine model.
DESIGN: Animal study.
SETTINGS: Animal laboratory at China Medical University.
PATIENTS: Eight healthy pigs were included.
INTERVENTIONS: Eight animals underwent total colonic severance and anastomoses with through-the-scope "bow-tie" devices and metal clips.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: The primary outcomes were the success rate of the anastomosis and survival rate during 3-month follow-up. Furthermore, the secondary outcomes were anastomotic site healing, reintervention rate, and rate of anastomotic complications such as bleeding, leakage, stenosis, and obstruction. Six pigs were euthanized, and necropsies were performed 3 months postoperatively, while two pigs were fed for long-term observation. The anastomotic stoma was histologically analyzed using Hematoxylin-eosin and Masson's trichrome staining.
RESULTS: End-to-end colonic anastomoses were successfully performed using through-the-scope "bow-tie" devices, and satisfactory healing was achieved in all pigs. The success rate of anastomosis was 100% (8/8). All animals survived postoperatively without anastomotic complications, including bleeding, leakage, or obstruction; however, two cases of stenosis occurred (25%), and one case (12.5%) required reintervention.
LIMITATIONS: Large-scale studies should be conducted to verify the feasibility and safety of the through-the-scope "bow-tie" device in other parts of the intestine.
CONCLUSIONS: Flexible endoscopy with the through-the-scope "bow-tie" device is feasible and safe for intraluminal colonic anastomosis. This study may expand the indications for full-thickness endoscopic resection in the future. See Video abstract.

Citation: Ge N, et al. First Fully Endoscopic End-to-End Colonic Anastomoses With a Novel Endoscopic Device: A Feasibility Study in a Porcine Model. First Fully Endoscopic End-to-End Colonic Anastomoses With a Novel Endoscopic Device: A Feasibility Study in a Porcine Model. 2024; (unknown volume):(unknown pages). doi: 10.1097/DCR.0000000000003486

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/39254197/
