PMID: 39257122
Title: Application Value of the Apolipoprotein in the Prediction of Acute Ischemic Death and in the Assessment of Functional Outcomes.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: In recent years, research on the apolipoprotein E (APOE) gene has gradually proven that many diseases, including atherosclerosis, coronary heart disease, and neurological diseases, are closely related to ApoE gene diversity. However, the relationship between the APOE gene and the prediction and prognosis evaluation of ischemic stroke has not been determined or unified so far. The purpose of this study was to investigate the application value of APOE allele-4 combined with high-resolution vascular wall imaging in predicting the occurrence and prognosis of acute ischemic stroke.
METHODS: A total of 511 patients with acute ischemic stroke (AIS), who were admitted from January 2022 to December 2023, were included in the study, including 317 patients with intracranial artery stenosis. Blood lipids, lipoproteins, apolipoprotein E (including allelic typing), and lipoproteins (a) were measured in all cases, and high-resolution magnetic resonance imaging of the vascular walls was performed. At 6 months, the functional outcomes of the AIS patients were followed up, assessed by using the modified Rankin Scale (mRS) (a score of 2 - 6 was rated as poor prognosis), and the high-definition vascular wall imaging results were followed up as well. High-definition vascular wall imaging ensures the accurate location of vascular stenosis and the accurate diagnosis of acute stroke.
RESULTS: There were no significant differences in the total cholesterol, triglyceride, high-density lipoprotein cholesterol, low-density lipoprotein cholesterol, or lipoprotein (a) in patients with and without intracranial artery stenosis, but the plasma apolipoprotein E (APOE) levels were significantly reduced in patients with intracranial artery stenosis (ICAS). At the 6-month follow-up, 230 patients with the APOE-ε4 gene were enrolled, out of which 104 had a poor prognosis (mRS score ≥ 2), accounting for 45.22%. Among 281 patients without the APOE-ε4 gene, 45 had a poor prognosis (mRS score ≥ 2), accounting for 16.01%. Patients with the APOE-ε4 gene had a worse functional prognosis after 6 months.
CONCLUSIONS: It is suggested that low plasma APOE levels may be a high risk factor for ICAS in patients with acute ischemic stroke, and carrying the APOE-ε4 gene may be a high risk factor for a poor functional prognosis in AIS patients. The APOE-ε4 genotype, combined with high-resolution vascular wall imaging, has certain clinical application value in predicting the occurrence of acute ischemic death and evaluating the functional outcome.

Citation: Cai B, et al. Application Value of the Apolipoprotein in the Prediction of Acute Ischemic Death and in the Assessment of Functional Outcomes. Application Value of the Apolipoprotein in the Prediction of Acute Ischemic Death and in the Assessment of Functional Outcomes. 2024; 70:(unknown pages). doi: 10.7754/Clin.Lab.2024.240302

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/39257122/
