PMID: 39256543
Title: Patency and factors related to patency after percutaneous transluminal angioplasty for inflow arterial stenosis in native arteriovenous fistula dysfunction: a single-center retrospective study.

Abstract: Controversy still exists regarding how much the inflow arterial percutaneous transluminal angioplasty (PTA) contributed to maintaining fistula function for hemodialysis. We aimed to analyze patency and risk factors after inflow arterial PTA. Hemodialysis patients with inflow arterial primary stenosis who were admitted to our institution from January 2017 to December 2022 were examined. One group had arterial-venous fistula with inflow artery stenosis alone (AVF + iAS) and another group had AVF with inflow artery stenosis and any vein stenosis (AVF + iAS + VS). The characteristics of patients, stenotic lesions, and PTA procedures were recorded. Kaplan-Meier analysis was used to compare primary patency, assisted primary patency, and secondary patency in the two groups. Cox proportional hazard analysis was used to identify risk factors associated with patency. We examined 213 patients, 53 in the AVF + iAS group (51 radial arterial stenosis and 2 ulnar arterial stenosis) and 160 in the AVF + iAS + VS group (159 radial arterial stenosis and 1 ulnar arterial stenosis). Kaplan-Meier analysis indicated the AVF + iAS group had better primary patency and assisted primary patency (both P < 0.05), but the groups had similar secondary patency. Cox proportional hazard analysis indicated that none of the analyzed clinical and biochemical indexes had clinically meaningful effects on primary patency, assisted primary patency, or secondary patency in either group. The patency and safety after PTA for inflow arterial stenosis were satisfactory, and none of the examined risk factors had a major clinical impact on patency. We recommend PTA as treatment for inflow stenosis of an AVF.

Citation: Chen B, et al. Patency and factors related to patency after percutaneous transluminal angioplasty for inflow arterial stenosis in native arteriovenous fistula dysfunction: a single-center retrospective study. Patency and factors related to patency after percutaneous transluminal angioplasty for inflow arterial stenosis in native arteriovenous fistula dysfunction: a single-center retrospective study. 2024; 14:21072. doi: 10.1038/s41598-024-71776-7

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/39256543/
