PMID: 39256060
Title: Pulmonary Artery Endograft Implantation Using a Parallel Stent Grafting Technique to Enable the Treatment of a Bronchial Anastomosis Complication After Lung Transplantation.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Bronchial stenosis associated with bronchial anastomosis dehiscence after lung transplantation is a catastrophic complication following lung transplantation with a paucity of therapeutic solutions.
PURPOSE: To describe an adaptation of the parallel stent grafting technique in the pulmonary arterial territory to treat this challenging situation.
RESEARCH DESIGN: This is a case report of a 52-year-old patient who presented bronchus stenosis and bronchial anastomosis dehiscence after lung transplantion. Bronchial stenting and lung retransplantation were contraindicated. Therefore, an endovascular approach using pulmonary artery endograft placement to prevent bleeding during repeated right bronchial balloon dilation was propposed. The technique consists of the deployment of an aortic extender endoprosthesis in the right main pulmonary artery and a balloon expandable stent in the upper lobe pulmonary artery (using a parallel graft configuration) through the common femoral and right internal jugular veins, respectively. Intraoperative transesophageal echocardiogram and one-lung ventilatory ventilation are needed.
RESULTS: The patient underwent a new bronchoscopy 16 days after the procedure, that showed epithelization at the previous eroded zone, enabling bronchocopic balloon dialtion to be safely performed. A post-operative contrast-enhanced CT scan revealed an adequate positioning of the stent grafts. Despite all eforts, the patient succumbed to ventilator associated pneumonia on postoperative day 108.
DATA ANALYSIS: The technique's advantages include its feasibility even in situations in which other techniques may be contraindicated and its potential use in emergencies. Its limitations include the need for experienced interventionists to perform it, and the potential risk of acute tricuspid regurgitation.
CONCLUSION: This study illustrates the early feasibility of the parallel stent grafting technique applied to the pulmonary artery territory. However, it's safety profile regarding infectious risk was not demontrated.

Citation: Schmid BP, et al. Pulmonary Artery Endograft Implantation Using a Parallel Stent Grafting Technique to Enable the Treatment of a Bronchial Anastomosis Complication After Lung Transplantation. Pulmonary Artery Endograft Implantation Using a Parallel Stent Grafting Technique to Enable the Treatment of a Bronchial Anastomosis Complication After Lung Transplantation. 2024; (unknown volume):15385744241280331. doi: 10.1177/15385744241280331

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/39256060/
