PMID: 39258016
Title: Successful treatment of acute left main coronary artery disease with a drug-coated balloon under left ventricular unloading using Impella: a case report.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Although the efficacy and safety of drug-coated balloons (DCBs) for acute left main coronary artery (LMCA) disease have not yet been proven, stentless percutaneous coronary intervention with a DCB is preferred for patients with high bleeding risk requiring a shorter duration of dual antiplatelet therapy. Mechanical circulatory support may improve haemodynamics in patients with cardiogenic shock caused by acute LMCA disease.
CASE SUMMARY: A 74-year-old man diagnosed with acute congestive heart failure underwent emergency coronary angiography (CAG) at our hospital owing to ischaemic changes on the electrocardiogram (ECG), indicating acute LMCA disease. Coronary angiography revealed severe LMCA ostial stenosis. Immediately after CAG, mechanical circulatory support was initiated using Impella CP® for haemodynamic collapse with abrupt ST-segment elevation in the precordial leads. The haemodynamics stabilized with a dramatic improvement in the ECG. We treated the culprit ostial lesion with inflation of a cutting balloon followed by DCB delivery because of an episode of haematochezia. Subsequently, his cardiac function recovered fully.
DISCUSSION: A case of acute LMCA disease was successfully treated with a DCB under haemodynamic support using Impella CP. The left ventricular (LV) unloading with Impella was indicated to contribute to stable haemodynamics, even during long inflation with the DCB, and the immediate recovery of LV function. Haemodynamic support using Impella may be effective, especially in cases requiring repeated and longer inflation of balloon catheters accompanied by extensive myocardial ischaemia.

Citation: Kamada K, et al. Successful treatment of acute left main coronary artery disease with a drug-coated balloon under left ventricular unloading using Impella: a case report. Successful treatment of acute left main coronary artery disease with a drug-coated balloon under left ventricular unloading using Impella: a case report. 2024; 8:ytae443. doi: 10.1093/ehjcr/ytae443

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/39258016/
