PMID: 39254866
Title: Elevated systemic venous pressures as a possible pathology in prepubertal pediatric idiopathic intracranial hypertension.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Pediatric idiopathic intracranial hypertension (IIH) is a rare and challenging condition. As implied by the nomenclature, the etiologies remain unknown, and multiple etiologies are being investigated. In this study, we explored the potential role of increased systemic or cerebral venous pressure in the pathogenesis.
METHOD: An observational cohort study following the STROBE guidelines, including prepubertal children with clinical symptoms and imaging findings consistent with IIH referred to the neurosurgical department, was conducted. The patients underwent a comprehensive diagnostic protocol, including MRI, continuous intracranial pressure (ICP) monitoring, and endovascular venography with venous pressure measurements.
RESULTS: The study included 11 consecutive patients (six boys and five girls) with an average age of 2.3 years, and an average BMI of 18.4. Among these, one patient was found to have venous stenosis with a gradient; the other 10 patients presented with normal intracranial anatomy. All patients exhibited elevated venous pressures, with an average superior sagittal sinus pressure of 18.9 mmHg, average internal jugular vein pressure of 17.0 mmHg, and average central venous pressure of 15.9 mmHg. Daytime ICP averaged 12.9 mmHg, whereas nighttime ICP averaged 17.2 mmHg with either A- or B-waves in 10 of the 11 patients. Despite pathological ICP, only three patients had papilledema.
CONCLUSIONS: All patients had an increased systemic venous pressure, indicating a possible pathological factor for prepubertal IIH. Additionally, our findings show that young children often only partly meet the Friedman criteria due to a lack of papilledema, emphasizing the need for pediatric-specific diagnostic criteria. Further large-scale studies are needed to confirm these findings and to explore the underlying reasons for this increase in venous pressure and potential new treatment avenues.

Citation: Riedel CS, et al. Elevated systemic venous pressures as a possible pathology in prepubertal pediatric idiopathic intracranial hypertension. Elevated systemic venous pressures as a possible pathology in prepubertal pediatric idiopathic intracranial hypertension. 2024; (unknown volume):(unknown pages). doi: 10.1007/s00381-024-06594-3

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/39254866/
