PMID: 39268114
Title: The safety and effectiveness of the treatment of refractory post-intubation subglottic stenosis using short bronchial Dumon stent: a pilot study.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Post-intubation subglottic stenosis (PI-SGS) is a fatal disease which could result in partial or complete narrowing of the airway. Although airway stenting is commonly used as an alternative treatment for PI-SGS patients unsuitable for surgery, complications including stent migration and excessive granulation tissue formation are frequently encountered. Additionally, tracheotomy is necessary in patients undergoing T-tube placement. Therefore, it is necessary to further enhance the effectiveness of airway stenting in refractory PI-SGS. In this study, we aimed to evaluate the safety and effectiveness of utilizing short bronchial Dumon (BD) stents in managing refractory PI-SGS.
METHODS: PI-SGS patients who were not suitable for surgery and in whom previous interventional treatments had proven ineffective were enrolled. Short BD stents were inserted via rigid bronchoscopy under general anesthesia. Complications and outcomes were assessed by follow-ups.
RESULTS: Fourteen patients were included and successful stent insertion was achieved in all cases. The median diameter and length of stents was 12 (0.25) and 33.5 (5) mm, respectively. During the 6-month follow-up period, complications were reported in five patients. Granulation tissue formation was the most frequently observed complication (4 in 14 patients, 28.57%), followed by stent migration (2 in 14 patients, 14.29%). Out of the total participants, 11 patients (78.57%) demonstrated good tolerance to the stent, while 3 (21.43%) required stent removal. Among these three patients, two finally underwent subsequent T-tube insertion after the removal. Twelve patients (85.71%) avoided the tracheotomy and T-tube insertion.
CONCLUSIONS: The utilization of short BD stents appears to be a safe and effective approach for managing refractory PI-SGS. The complications and tolerability are acceptable.

Citation: Guo Z, et al. The safety and effectiveness of the treatment of refractory post-intubation subglottic stenosis using short bronchial Dumon stent: a pilot study. The safety and effectiveness of the treatment of refractory post-intubation subglottic stenosis using short bronchial Dumon stent: a pilot study. 2024; 16:4844-4851. doi: 10.21037/jtd-24-342

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/39268114/
