PMID: 39265196
Title: National epidemiological survey on pharyngeal, laryngeal, and tracheal stenosis in Japan: A National survey on airway stenosis.

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: Airway stenosis impairs the quality of life of patients. However, the epidemiology and pathophysiology of airway stenosis remain underexplored owing to its rarity. Airway stenosis may go undetected for a long period without accurate diagnosis or treatment owing to the lack of established treatment guidelines. Thus, clinical information must be accumulated and analyzed to generate evidence-based treatment strategies for this rare entity.
METHODS: A retrospective nationwide epidemiological survey was conducted targeting patients with pharyngeal, laryngeal, or tracheal stenosis in Japan. The initial survey was conducted across 1393 facilities between 2013 and 2017 to evaluate the treatment of airway stenosis. The clinical information of the patients was collected via a secondary survey.
RESULTS: The primary survey revealed that airway stenosis was treated at only 43 % of the facilities over the 5-year period. The secondary survey revealed that 284 cases were registered across 57 facilities. The number of patients with acquired stenosis exceeded that of those with congenital stenosis. The larynx or cervical trachea was the most common site of stenosis, and intubation or tracheostomy was the most common cause of stenosis. Approximately 76 % of patients underwent surgical treatment, and tracheostomy was the most common procedure. Stenosis persisted in > 70 % of patients at the last visit.
CONCLUSIONS: This study clarified the clinical background of patients with pharyngeal, laryngeal, and tracheal stenosis in Japan and the surgical treatment received. The findings of this study confirmed the rarity of airway stenosis and the difficulty in treating this entity.

Citation: Kishimoto Y, et al. National epidemiological survey on pharyngeal, laryngeal, and tracheal stenosis in Japan: A National survey on airway stenosis. National epidemiological survey on pharyngeal, laryngeal, and tracheal stenosis in Japan: A National survey on airway stenosis. 2024; 51:911-916. doi: 10.1016/j.anl.2024.08.008

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/39265196/
