PMID: 39269463
Title: Giant tumefactive mesencephalothalamic Virchow-Robin space with triventricular hydrocephalus: a case-based systematic literature review.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: The perivascular spaces of the brain are also known as Virchow-Robin spaces (VRSs). Dilated Virchow-Robin spaces in the brainstem are rare and mainly cause symptoms due to obstructive hydrocephalus, less frequently because of their size, mass effect, and impact on eloquent structures.
CASE ILLUSTRATION: We present a patient with giant tumefactive VRS with hydrocephalus and neurological symptoms who was treated with endoscopic third ventriculostomy (ETV) followed by microscopic cyst fenestration. On the basis of this observation, we performed a thorough review of the literature to evaluate different treatment options.
RESULTS: An 11-year-old girl presented with a headache for 3 months. The patient had a giant tumefactive mesencephalothalamic VRS with triventricular hydrocephalus. She was initially treated with endoscopic third ventriculostomy and multiple cyst fenestration. Symptomatic cyst regrowth required multiple cyst fenestrations via transcallosal transchoroidal (N = 2) and subtemporal approaches (N = 1) at the 2- and 4-year follow-ups. A literature review of these conditions allowed the detection of 12 cases (including our index case), and only 25% (3/12) of the patients underwent cyst fenestration 16.7% (2/12) required endoscopic fenestration and 8.3% (1/12) required microscopic fenestration.
CONCLUSION: Giant mesencephalothalamic dVRSs are rare in the pediatric population. These patients are usually symptomatic due to obstructive hydrocephalus. Surgical options are endoscopic third ventriculostomy, ventricular shunt procedures, or direct cyst fenestration (microscopic or endoscopic). Close follow-up is mandatory owing to the risk of progression of the disease. Cyst fenestration resolves symptoms immediately, as it addresses both hydrocephalus and mass effects due to the cystic lesion in the same setting.

Citation: Kumarasamy S, et al. Giant tumefactive mesencephalothalamic Virchow-Robin space with triventricular hydrocephalus: a case-based systematic literature review. Giant tumefactive mesencephalothalamic Virchow-Robin space with triventricular hydrocephalus: a case-based systematic literature review. 2024; (unknown volume):(unknown pages). doi: 10.1007/s00381-024-06610-6

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/39269463/
