PMID: 39264268
Title: Successful treatment of chronic venous in-stent restenosis using a Phoenix atherectomy device.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Although endovascular treatment of venous obstruction with percutaneous transluminal angioplasty (PTA) and stenting is a safe and effective alternative to conservative treatment, the overall prevalence of in-stent restenosis (ISR) remains high in this patient population. This study reports a novel treatment option for patients with chronic ISR (C-ISR).
METHODS: At our center, all patients with ISR were treated based on the time since the initial intervention. Acute in-stent restenosis (A-ISR) was preferably treated with catheter-directed thrombolysis or a pharmacomechanical peripheral thrombectomy device and PTA. Selected patients with chronic ISR (C-ISR) (greater than 30 days) were treated with a catheter- guided unidirectional atherectomy in addition to PTA, under the assumption of a non-thrombotic mechanism in the development of C-ISR.
RESULTS: We demonstrate a safe and practical treatment option for chronic ISR using a catheter- guided technical approach with the Phoenix atherectomy device in four patients. Technical success was achieved in every case, and mid-term patency was restored in three out of four patients.
CONCLUSIONS: Restenosis following venous stenting is highly complex. Patients must be treated individually, with a focus on anticoagulation and antiplatelet therapy regimens, as well as the appropriate interventional treatment. Catheter- guided atherectomy is a viable option for this heterogeneous group of patients. Further studies are required to understand the etiology of chronic ISR.

Citation: Linden F, et al. Successful treatment of chronic venous in-stent restenosis using a Phoenix atherectomy device. Successful treatment of chronic venous in-stent restenosis using a Phoenix atherectomy device. 2024; 43:430-436. doi: 10.23736/S0392-9590.24.05229-5

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/39264268/
