PMID: 39260960
Title: Impact of Balloon-Expandable TAVR Valve Deformation and Calcium Distribution on Outcomes in Bicuspid Aortic Valve.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Research on the role of transcatheter heart valve (THV) deformation and calcium distribution in patients with bicuspid aortic valves (BAVs) undergoing transcatheter aortic valve replacement (TAVR) remains limited.
OBJECTIVES: The aim of this study was to evaluate the impact of THV deformation on clinical outcomes in individuals with BAVs undergoing TAVR and the influence of calcium on these outcomes.
METHODS: In total, 229 consecutive patients with BAVs who underwent TAVR with balloon-expandable valves and had computed tomography (CT) performed 30 days post-TAVR were analyzed. Patients were stratified into 3 groups: group 1 (n = 125), with no THV underexpansion or eccentricity; group 2 (n = 69), with underexpansion or eccentricity; and group 3 (n = 35), with both. Calcium distribution was assessed using CT, and its associations with clinical outcomes, including all-cause mortality at 3 years and leaflet thrombosis at 30 days, were determined. A subgroup analysis of patients with type 1 BAVs was conducted.
RESULTS: Group 3 exhibited higher rates of all-cause mortality than the other groups, along with the highest risk for hypoattenuated leaflet thickening at 30 days. Multivariate analysis identified annular and left ventricular outflow tract calcification as independent predictors of all-cause mortality and hypoattenuated leaflet thickening. In patients with type 1 BAVs, excessive calcification at the raphe and opposite leaflet were associated with all-cause mortality at 3 years.
CONCLUSIONS: THV deformation post-TAVR was significantly linked to all-cause mortality in patients with BAVs. Annular and left ventricular outflow tract calcification correlated with increased risks for all-cause mortality and leaflet thrombosis. (Assessment of Transcatheter and Surgical Aortic Bioprosthetic Valve Thrombosis and Its Treatment With Anticoagulation [RESOLVE]; NCT02318342).

Citation: Nagasaka T, et al. Impact of Balloon-Expandable TAVR Valve Deformation and Calcium Distribution on Outcomes in Bicuspid Aortic Valve. Impact of Balloon-Expandable TAVR Valve Deformation and Calcium Distribution on Outcomes in Bicuspid Aortic Valve. 2024; 17:2023-2037. doi: 10.1016/j.jcin.2024.07.018

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/39260960/
