PMID: 39261360
Title: Successful novel use of dupilumab for gastrointestinal involvement of idiopathic hypereosinophilic syndrome: case report and review of the literature.

Abstract: Hypereosinophilic syndrome (HES) is characterized by blood and tissue hypereosinophilia leading to organ damage. Gastrointestinal involvement is the third most common manifestation. We present a patient with idiopathic HES with secondary eosinophilic esophagitis (EoE), gastritis, and enteritis, corticosteroids-dependent, azathioprine- and mepolizumab-refractory. The patient achieved clinical and histopathologic remission following dupilumab treatment. A 28 year-old female presented with chronic episodic nausea and emesis since childhood and initial diagnosis of primary eosinophilic gastrointestinal disease (EGID), improved with corticosteroids, refractory to azathioprine. She was found to have peripheral eosinophilia and multifactorial anemia, with iron, B12, and folate deficiencies. Esophageal, gastric, duodenal, and terminal ileum biopsies showed significant eosinophilic infiltrate. Bone marrow biopsy at age 31 confirmed HES diagnosis. By age 32, she became total parental nutrition (TPN)-dependent. She failed trials of benralizumab and mepolizumab [anti-interleukin (IL)-5 inhibitors], and cromolyn (mast-cell stabilizer). After developing new esophageal stricture, we initiated dupilumab (IL-4/13 inhibitor), recently FDA-approved for EoE. After 9 weeks, esophageal stricture, gut tissue eosinophilia, and prior intestinal ulcerations resolved. She ceased TPN and is tolerating a non-restricted diet, with complete symptom resolution. Our patient's complete remission with dupilumab shows promise for broadening its use in treating GI involvement in HES, along with primary EGIDs.

Citation: Moffatt C, et al. Successful novel use of dupilumab for gastrointestinal involvement of idiopathic hypereosinophilic syndrome: case report and review of the literature. Successful novel use of dupilumab for gastrointestinal involvement of idiopathic hypereosinophilic syndrome: case report and review of the literature. 2024; 17:1003-1008. doi: 10.1007/s12328-024-02036-4

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/39261360/
