PMID: 39262349
Title: Patients With Non-Obstructive Coronary Artery Disease and Polyvascular Disease. Sub-Analysis of the Real-World Registry KAMMA (Clinical Registry on Patient Population With Polyvascular Disease in the Russian Federation and Eurasian Countries).

Abstract: AIM: To study the clinical status and data of laboratory and instrumental examination of patients with non-obstructive ischemic heart disease (IHD) and multifocal atherosclerosis (MFA) included in the KAMMA registry.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: The subanalysis included 1,893 IHD patients who underwent coronary angiography (CAG) and ultrasonic examination of peripheral arteries. Based on the CAG data, patients were divided into two groups: group 1, patients with obstructive coronary atherosclerosis (CA) (maximum stenosis ≥50% and/or history of percutaneous coronary intervention/coronary artery bypass grafting, n=1728; 91.3%) and group 2, patients with non-obstructive CA (maximum stenosis &lt;50%, n = 165; 8.7%).
RESULTS: A comparative analysis based on the degree of coronary obstruction in patients with verified IHD who were included in the KAMMA registry showed that 8.7% of them had coronary artery stenosis of less than 50%. The overwhelming majority of patients with non-obstructive CA had MFA affecting the brachiocephalic arteries in 94.3% and the lower extremity arteries in 40.2%. Among patients with non-obstructive IHD, women predominated; risk factors such as smoking and type 2 diabetes mellitus were less frequent in this group than in the obstructive IHD group. Patients with non-obstructive CA more frequently had a history of dyslipidemia; they had higher total cholesterol and non-high-density lipoprotein cholesterol; and they more frequently received moderate-intensity statin therapy than patients with obstructive CA (55.8% vs. 34.5%). Characteristic features of patients with non-obstructive CA were less severe IHD and less frequent history of acute coronary syndrome. However, the incidence of stroke, peripheral arterial thrombosis, and chronic arterial insufficiency of the lower extremities did not differ in groups 1 and 2, whereas the incidence of paroxysmal atrial fibrillation was higher in the non-obstructive IHD group.
CONCLUSION: IHD patients without coronary obstruction also require assessment of the peripheral arterial status, as they may have advanced MFA, which should be taken into account when choosing the "aggressiveness" of therapy.

Citation: Arutyunov GP, et al. Patients With Non-Obstructive Coronary Artery Disease and Polyvascular Disease. Sub-Analysis of the Real-World Registry KAMMA (Clinical Registry on Patient Population With Polyvascular Disease in the Russian Federation and Eurasian Countries). Patients With Non-Obstructive Coronary Artery Disease and Polyvascular Disease. Sub-Analysis of the Real-World Registry KAMMA (Clinical Registry on Patient Population With Polyvascular Disease in the Russian Federation and Eurasian Countries). 2024; 64:13-23. doi: 10.18087/cardio.2024.8.n2683

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/39262349/
