PMID: 39266775
Title: "White Cord Syndrome" as clinical manifestation of the spinal cord reperfusion syndrome: a systematic review of risk factors, treatments, and outcome.

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: Paralysis subsequent to spinal cord decompression in the cervical or thoracic region is infrequent, with White Cord Syndrome (WCS) being among its several causes. Due to WCS's infrequency, there exists a paucity of high-level evidence concerning its manifestations. Our primary objective is to systematically collate all documented WCS cases, discern prevalent risk and prognostic factors, appraise available treatment modalities, and evaluate patient outcomes.
METHODS: A systematic review was conducted following PRISMA guidelines. The search included PubMed, Scopus, Embase, and Web of Science databases. Inclusion criteria required studies to be written in English, be case reports, and contain data on clinical features, management, and treatment outcomes. Exclusion criteria excluded meta-analyses, reviews, editorials, letters, books, studies with insufficient clinical data, and studies not in English or with unavailable full texts. Grey literature was not actively pursued due to identification challenges, potentially introducing selection bias. Two authors independently evaluated papers based on criteria. Disagreements were resolved with a third author. Additionally, the included articles' references were screened for additional relevant articles.
RESULTS: We found a total of 580 articles through our electronic search. After removing duplicates, 399 articles were screened. Out of the remaining 51 studies, 27 were included in the final quantitative analysis. The average age was 54 (3-79 years) with a male-to-female ratio of 2:1, 33% had OPLL, and Common medical histories were hypertension (30%), diabetes mellitus (20%), and previous ACDF surgery (8%). Of all Surgeries, 70% were done with a posterior approach and 30% with the anterior approach. 48% of cases used Intraoperative NeuroMonitoring(IONM), and Loss of Motor Evoked Potentials (MEP) occurred in 37% of cases. Patients received high-dose intravenous steroids. In 26% of cases, additional posterior cervical decompression was performed, and efforts were made to maintain mean arterial pressure above 85 mmHg in 37% of cases. Other medications were administered in 30% of cases. Over an average 26-week follow-up, 37% of patients had good recovery, 40% had partial recovery, and 23% showed no recovery. The average final Nurick grade was 3.2.
CONCLUSIONS: WCS is a rare cause of postoperative neurological deficit following spinal cord decompression surgery. Risk factors for WCS include advanced age, extensive surgery, posterior approach for decompression, and the presence of OPLL. Treatment includes high-dose steroids, posterior cervical decompression, maintaining MAP over 85mmHg, rehabilitation, and sometimes neurotrophic drugs. Most patients can walk with or without assistance during follow-up, but around a quarter never regain neurological function. The only preoperative factor impacting outcomes is the preoperative neurological status (Nurick Grade).

Citation: Bagherzadeh S, et al. "White Cord Syndrome" as clinical manifestation of the spinal cord reperfusion syndrome: a systematic review of risk factors, treatments, and outcome. "White Cord Syndrome" as clinical manifestation of the spinal cord reperfusion syndrome: a systematic review of risk factors, treatments, and outcome. 2024; (unknown volume):(unknown pages). doi: 10.1007/s00586-024-08461-w

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/39266775/
