PMID: 39269668
Title: Endoscopic Management of Lower Gastrointestinal Tract Anastomosis Strictures: A Meta-Analysis and Systematic Review of the Literature.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Anastomotic strictures following colectomy and proctectomy are a significant cause of benign lower gastrointestinal tract (LGIT) obstruction, with a reported incidence of up to 30%. Endoscopic interventions such as balloon dilation, stricturotomy, mechanical dilation, electrocautery incision, and stent placement are utilized for management. This meta-analysis aimed to evaluate the efficacy and safety of endoscopic interventions for the management of benign LGIT anastomotic strictures.
METHODS: Literature search was performed for published full-text articles using the Embase, Pubmed, Web of Sciences, and Cochrane databases for endoscopic management of anastomosis strictures and related terms including endoscopic balloon dilation (EBD), stricturotomy (EST), mechanical dilation, electrocautery incision (ECI), and stent placement.
RESULTS: A total of 1363 patients from 33 studies were included. The most common indication for anastomosis was colorectal cancer (92%). Overall technical success (ability to pass the endoscope) was achieved in 93% of cases, with immediate clinical success in 85% and sustained success in 81% at follow-up. ECI demonstrated the highest clinical success rates (98% immediate, 91% at the end of follow-up). Adverse events occurred in 6% of patients, most commonly perforation, which was most frequent with EBD. Stent placement showed high initial success but had issues with stent migration and adverse events.
CONCLUSION: Overall, EBD and ECI were the most effective, with ECI showing the highest success rates. Despite its technical challenges, EST was both effective and safe. This study underscores the need for further prospective research comparing various endoscopic interventions to improve management strategies for LGIT anastomotic strictures.

Citation: Patel P, et al. Endoscopic Management of Lower Gastrointestinal Tract Anastomosis Strictures: A Meta-Analysis and Systematic Review of the Literature. Endoscopic Management of Lower Gastrointestinal Tract Anastomosis Strictures: A Meta-Analysis and Systematic Review of the Literature. 2024; 69:3882-3893. doi: 10.1007/s10620-024-08627-y

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/39269668/
