PMID: 39269828
Title: Utility of ultrasound in the perioperative phase of carotid endarterectomy and carotid artery stent implantation.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: This article reviews the latest research results of the use of ultrasound technology in the perioperative period of carotid endarterectomy and carotid stenting and discusses the role of ultrasound technology in accurately evaluating carotid stenosis and plaque stability, assisting in selecting the most suitable surgical method, and providing optimal perioperative imaging to guide carotid endarterectomy (CEA) and carotid artery stenting (CAS) to reduce the occurrence and progression of stroke.
METHODS: The research published in recent years on the application of ultrasound in the perioperative period of CEA and CAS was reviewed through the databases of CNKI, Pubmed, and Web of Science.
RESULTS: Ultrasound has high clinical value in preoperative screening for indications, assessing the degree of carotid artery stenosis and the nature of plaque; monitoring hemodynamic changes intraoperatively to prevent cerebral ischemia or overperfusion; and evaluating surgical outcomes postoperatively and in late follow-up review.
CONCLUSION: Ultrasound is currently widely used perioperatively in CEA and CAS and has even become the preferred choice of clinicians to evaluate the efficacy of surgery and follow-up. The presence of vulnerable plaque is an important risk factor for ischemic stroke. Contrast-enhanced ultrasound is an excellent tool to assess plaque stability. In most studies, ultrasound has been used only in a short follow-up period after CEA and CAS, and data from longer follow-ups are needed to provide more reliable evidence.

Citation: Li L, et al. Utility of ultrasound in the perioperative phase of carotid endarterectomy and carotid artery stent implantation. Utility of ultrasound in the perioperative phase of carotid endarterectomy and carotid artery stent implantation. 2024; (unknown volume):(unknown pages). doi: 10.3233/CH-242412

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/39269828/
