PMID: 39274353
Title: Epidemiological Changes in Transthyretin Cardiac Amyloidosis: Evidence from In Vivo Data and Autoptic Series.

Abstract: Cardiac amyloidosis is an infiltrative disease that causes progressive myocardial impairment secondary to amyloid fibril deposition in the extracellular space of the myocardium. Many amyloid precursors, including transthyretin protein, are known to determine cardiac damage by aggregating and precipitating in cardiac tissue. Transthyretin cardiac amyloidosis may be either caused by rare genetic mutations of the transthyretin gene in the hereditary variant, or may arise as a consequence of age-related mechanisms in the acquired form. Although it has been labeled as a rare disease, in recent years, transthyretin cardiac amyloidosis has stood out as an emerging cause of aortic stenosis, unexplained left ventricular hypertrophy and heart failure with preserved ejection fraction, particularly in the elderly. Indeed, the integration of data deriving from both in vivo imaging techniques (whose advancement in the last years has allowed to achieve an easier and more accessible non-invasive diagnosis) and forensic studies (showing a prevalence of amyloid deposition in cardiac tissue of elderly patients up to 29%) suggests that cardiac amyloidosis is a more common disease than traditionally considered. Thanks to all the improvements in non-invasive diagnostic techniques, along with the development of efficacious therapies offering improvements in survival rates, transthyretin cardiac amyloidosis has been transformed from an incurable and infrequent condition to a relatively more diffuse and treatable disease, which physicians should take into consideration in the differential diagnostic processes in daily clinical practice.

Citation: Cianci V, et al. Epidemiological Changes in Transthyretin Cardiac Amyloidosis: Evidence from In Vivo Data and Autoptic Series. Epidemiological Changes in Transthyretin Cardiac Amyloidosis: Evidence from In Vivo Data and Autoptic Series. 2024; 13:(unknown pages). doi: 10.3390/jcm13175140

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/39274353/
