PMID: 39278206
Title: Urinary Leakage after Robot-Assisted Radical Prostatectomy: Is Always Predictive of Functional Results?

Abstract: INTRODUCTION: The aim of the study was to evaluate if and when the presence of radiological urinary leakages of vesico-urethral anastomosis, after robotic radical prostatectomy, could provoke urethral strictures or affect continence recovery.
METHODS: We enrolled 216 patients, undergoing robot-assisted radical prostatectomy between January 2020 and December 2022 in three high-volume referenced centres for robotic surgery. Before removal of the bladder catheter, all patients underwent a cystourethrography in which the presence/absence of leakage was assessed at level of vesico-urethral anastomosis. Based on degree of severity of urinary leakage on cystourethrography, patients were classified as no leakage or grade 0, grade 1 with transversal diameter ≤1 cm, and grade 2 with transversal diameter ≥1 cm. At follow-up, urethral stenosis formation and urinary continence recovery were assessed; furthermore, post-operative 12-month functional outcome was determined using EORTC-QLQ-PR25 questionnaire.
RESULTS: Radiological urinary leakage was found in 30 patients with grade 1 and 33 patients with grade 2, for a total of 63 patients. Only 1 patient (1.5%), grade 2 urinary leakage, developed significant urethral stricture and required endoscopic urethrotomy after 6 months. Analysing the differences in those who removed the bladder catheter after 7-9 days and those who kept it longer, we found no statistically significant differences regarding recovery of continence (p = 0.23) or about urinary symptoms (p = 0.94).
CONCLUSIONS: RARP remains gold-standard approach for treatment of localized prostate cancer and the superiority of this technique is safe in preventing urethral strictures and continence recovery, even in presence of significant anastomotic urinary leakage.

Citation: Fiorello N, et al. Urinary Leakage after Robot-Assisted Radical Prostatectomy: Is Always Predictive of Functional Results?. Urinary Leakage after Robot-Assisted Radical Prostatectomy: Is Always Predictive of Functional Results?. 2024; (unknown volume):1-6. doi: 10.1159/000541409

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/39278206/
