PMID: 39272645
Title: Influence of Bridging Stent Graft Implantation into the Renal Artery during Complex Endovascular Aortic Procedures on the Renal Resistance Index.

Abstract: Comparative sonographic examination of the renal resistance index (RRI) can provide evidence of renal artery stenosis. The extent to which the RRI is changed after stent graft implantation is not known. The aim of this study was to investigate the influence of stent graft implantation into non-diseased renal arteries during endovascular treatment of pararenal aortic aneurysms on the RRI. Sonographic examinations of the kidneys were conducted using a GE ultrasound system. The evaluation was performed according to the European Society for Vascular Surgery (ESVS) 2D standard criteria. RRI values were determined in consecutive patients on the day before and after stent graft implantation and compared for each kidney. A total of 32 consecutive patients (73.9 ± 8.2 years, 5 females, 27 males) were treated with a fenestrated or branched aortic stent graft including bridging stent graft implantations into both renal arteries and received pre- and postinterventional examinations. Sonomorphologically, the examined kidneys were inconspicuous. The arborisation of the renal perfusion was preserved pre- and post-implantation. The RRI did not differ (0.66 ± 0.06 versus 0.67 ± 0.07; p = ns). Successful stent graft implantation into non-stenosed renal arteries did not lead to a relevant change in RRI. Therefore, the RRI is a suitable tool for assessing renal perfusion after fenestrated or branched endovascular aortic therapy.

Citation: Reitnauer D, et al. Influence of Bridging Stent Graft Implantation into the Renal Artery during Complex Endovascular Aortic Procedures on the Renal Resistance Index. Influence of Bridging Stent Graft Implantation into the Renal Artery during Complex Endovascular Aortic Procedures on the Renal Resistance Index. 2024; 14:(unknown pages). doi: 10.3390/diagnostics14171860

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/39272645/
