PMID: 39278418
Title: Association Between the Regular Use of Vaginal Dilators and/or Sexual Activity and Vaginal Morbidity in Locally Advanced Cervical Cancer Survivors: An EMBRACE-I Study Report.

Abstract: PURPOSE: The purpose of this study was to provide risk estimations for vaginal morbidity with regard to vaginal dilation (summarizing the use of dilators and/or sexual activity) in patients with locally advanced cervical cancer treated with definitive radiochemotherapy and image guided adaptive brachytherapy within the prospective, multi-institutional EMBRACE-I study.
METHODS AND MATERIALS: Physician-assessed vaginal morbidity (National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 3.0), use of vaginal dilators, and patient-reported sexual activity (EORTC-CX24) were prospectively assessed at baseline and during regular follow-ups. Frequency analysis for vaginal dilation was performed in a subcohort of patients with ≥3 follow-ups. Regular dilation was defined if reported in ≥50% of follow-ups, and no/infrequent dilation if reported in <50%. Actuarial estimates were calculated with Kaplan-Meier method; comparisons were evaluated with the log-rank test. Univariate and multivariable Cox proportional hazard regressions were used to evaluate risk factors for vaginal stenosis G≥2.
RESULTS: The EMBRACE-I study included a total of 1416 patients (2008-2015); 882 were evaluated in the present report with a median follow-up of 60 months. Of those, 565 (64%) reported regular dilation. This was associated with a significantly lower 5-year risk of vaginal stenosis G≥2 compared with no/infrequent dilation (23% vs 37%, P ≤ .001). This univariate finding was confirmed by multivariable analysis, after adjusting for other risk factors (hazard ratio, 0.630; P = .001). Regular vaginal dilation was also associated with a significantly higher risk for vaginal dryness G≥1 (72% vs 67%, P = .028) and bleeding G≥1 (61% vs 34%, P ≤ .001).
CONCLUSIONS: Vaginal stenosis represents irreversible fibrotic changes that can cause pain during gynecologic examination and dyspareunia in locally advanced cervical cancer patients survivors. Regular vaginal dilation (defined as the use of dilators and/or sexual activity) is associated with a significantly lower risk for G≥2 vaginal stenosis, suggesting a potential improvement of vaginal patency. It is also associated with a significantly higher risk for mild G≥1 dryness and bleeding (no higher risk for G≥2), which can be clinically managed.

Citation: Kirchheiner K, et al. Association Between the Regular Use of Vaginal Dilators and/or Sexual Activity and Vaginal Morbidity in Locally Advanced Cervical Cancer Survivors: An EMBRACE-I Study Report. Association Between the Regular Use of Vaginal Dilators and/or Sexual Activity and Vaginal Morbidity in Locally Advanced Cervical Cancer Survivors: An EMBRACE-I Study Report. 2024; (unknown volume):(unknown pages). doi: 10.1016/j.ijrobp.2024.09.011

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/39278418/
