PMID: 39281634
Title: Enhancing capture efficiency of drug-carrier particles in the carotid sinus by utilizing a combination of magnetic fields: A numerical approach.

Abstract: Magnetic drug targeting is a relatively new method to treat vascular occlusion in different body parts. However, the effectiveness of this method can be affected due to the severity and location of the occlusion. This can lead to the injection of high dosages of drugs, which can cause serious side effects due to the deposition of drugs in unwanted parts. To mitigate these effects, this study investigates the potential of a guiding magnetic field in enhancing drug absorption for vascular occlusion treatment. The method relies on guiding magnetic nanoparticles (NPs) loaded with drugs toward the occlusion site using two external magnetic fields. Blood flow was modeled as non-Newtonian, considering shear-rate-dependent viscosity and unsteady at the inlet. To test this idea, a computational fluid dynamic (CFD) coupled with a discrete phase model (DPM) approach has been employed to simulate drug delivery in three-vessel structures with varying degrees of occlusion (45 %, 60 %, and 90 %). To avoid the escape of drug carriers, a secondary magnetic field was applied at the bifurcation point to direct the NPs to the site of blockage where the primary magnetic field acts. Then, the states with or without a guiding source at the bifurcation site are compared based on the capture efficiency of each structure. The simulation demonstrated a significant increase in NP capture at the target site, ranging from 2 % to 15 %, depending on the NP size. However, the severity of occlusion substantially impacted the secondary magnetic field's effectiveness. In the 90 % occlusion scenario, the method's efficiency decreased significantly from 26 % to 16 % for NP sizes exceeding 1.5μm. This study highlights the potential of guiding magnetic fields in improving drug delivery to target sites in vascular occlusion.

Citation: Aali M, et al. Enhancing capture efficiency of drug-carrier particles in the carotid sinus by utilizing a combination of magnetic fields: A numerical approach. Enhancing capture efficiency of drug-carrier particles in the carotid sinus by utilizing a combination of magnetic fields: A numerical approach. 2024; 10:e36930. doi: 10.1016/j.heliyon.2024.e36930

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/39281634/
