PMID: 39285241
Title: Ocular effects of Rho kinase (ROCK) inhibition: a systematic review.

Abstract: Topical therapies targeting Rho-associated protein kinase (ROCK) signalling, including netarsudil (Rhopressa®) and ripasudil (Glanatec®), have become widely adopted as part of standard clinical practice to lower intraocular pressure (IOP) in patients with ocular hypertension or glaucoma. Given the pleiotropic roles of ROCK signalling, ROCK inhibition has the potential to cause unintended ocular side effects beyond IOP lowering in other substructures of the eye, both beneficial and deleterious. Additional experience and observation of patients treated with this class of medications have uncovered both new side effects not reported in the initial clinical trials, as well as potential benefits that have inspired off-label uses and that have been the topic of numerous clinical studies, case series, case reports, and translational studies. Here, we performed a comprehensive systematic review and identified 170 studies describing ocular effects of ROCK inhibition. In addition to describing well-established ocular effects associated with inhibition of ROCK signalling, such as conjunctival hyperaemia, corneal verticillata, and reticular corneal epithelial oedema, we also highlight other effects, such as corneal haemorrhages, changes in corneal contour, anterior subcapsular opacities, contact dermatitis, punctal stenosis, and eyelid wound dehiscence, which have been described in case series and case reports. Finally, we evaluated studies describing potential novel applications of ROCK inhibition for treating disorders affecting the cornea, the retina, and the optic nerve, finding strong evidence in support of a beneficial effect of ROCK inhibitors on corneal oedema due to corneal endothelial cell dysfunction. The other potential applications require further research.

Citation: Lin JB, et al. Ocular effects of Rho kinase (ROCK) inhibition: a systematic review. Ocular effects of Rho kinase (ROCK) inhibition: a systematic review. 2024; (unknown volume):(unknown pages). doi: 10.1038/s41433-024-03342-4

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/39285241/
