PMID: 39283502
Title: Association of pancreatic atrophy patterns with intraductal extension of early pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma: a multicenter retrospective study.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Focal pancreatic parenchymal atrophy (FPPA) and upstream pancreatic atrophy (UPA) may indicate the presence of early pancreatic cancer. In early pancreatic cancer, the tumor occasionally spreads laterally along the main pancreatic duct, presenting challenges in determining the extent of surgical resection. This study aimed to investigate the association of pancreatic atrophy pattern and intraductal cancer extension.
METHODS: Thirty-two patients with early-stage pancreatic cancer who underwent surgery at five participating centers were enrolled. Pancreatic atrophy was defined as the narrowing of parenchyma compared to the surrounding parenchyma and was classified as either FPPA (partial atrophy surrounding the pancreatic duct stenosis) or UPA (global atrophy caudal to the site of duct stenosis). Intraductal cancer extension was defined as an extension exceeding 10 mm.
RESULTS: Preoperative computed tomography revealed FPPA, UPA, and no parenchymal atrophy in 13, 13, and 6 patients. Cases with FPPA or UPA showed significantly longer cancer extensions than those without atrophy (P = 0.005 and P = 0.03, respectively). Intraductal cancer extension was present in all but one case of FPPA. 69% (9/13) of the cases with UPA showed intraductal cancer extension, whereas cases without atrophy showed no intraductal cancer extension. Importantly, two patients with FPPA or UPA showed positive resection margins during surgery and three patients with FPPA or UPA showed recurrence in the remnant pancreas.
CONCLUSIONS: The presence of FPPA and UPA indicates lateral cancer extension in early-stage pancreatic cancer. Preoperative assessment of the pancreatic parenchyma may provide valuable insights for determining the extent of surgical resection.

Citation: Miki M, et al. Association of pancreatic atrophy patterns with intraductal extension of early pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma: a multicenter retrospective study. Association of pancreatic atrophy patterns with intraductal extension of early pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma: a multicenter retrospective study. 2024; 59:1133-1142. doi: 10.1007/s00535-024-02149-0

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/39283502/
