PMID: 39280480
Title: Covered Endovascular Reconstruction of Aortic Bifurcation Facilitated by Intravascular Lithotripsy With Shockwave Balloon: A Case Report.

Abstract: Aortoiliac occlusive disease (AIOD) is a specific form of peripheral artery disease (PAD) that affects the infrarenal aorta and iliac arteries. Patients with PAD commonly suffer from intermittent claudication (IC), a condition characterized by cramping pain during or after exercise that is relieved by rest. The first-line therapy for IC involves medical management, foot care, and structured exercise programs while revascularization therapy, which can be endovascular, surgical, or a combination of both, is generally reserved for patients with claudication who do not respond adequately to initial therapies. We present the clinical case of a 58-year-old female with hypertension, dyslipidemia, and a smoking habit who was referred to our hospital (Misericordia Hospital, Grosseto, Italy) due to bilateral IC of the buttocks and thighs. Computed tomography (CT) angiography revealed a 90% tight stenosis of the infrarenal abdominal aorta just above the iliac bifurcation with diffuse calcifications. After a careful evaluation of the patient's condition and anatomical characteristics of the atherosclerotic disease, the vascular team decided to perform covered endovascular reconstruction of aortic bifurcation (CERAB) with previous intravascular lithotripsy (IVL) with shockwave balloon using intravascular ultrasound (IVUS) as guidance, because of severe aortic luminal calcifications. We performed successful CERAB, and the patient was discharged in good clinical condition on the fifth day of hospitalization with an indication to follow optimal medical therapy. At the one-month clinical follow-up, the patient reported the disappearance of claudication with marked improvement in quality of life. This first described case of IVUS-guided IVL-facilitated CERAB demonstrates the efficacy and safety of IVL in calcific aortic disease and shows the usefulness of IVUS as guidance in peripheral calcium debulking procedures.

Citation: Misuraca L, et al. Covered Endovascular Reconstruction of Aortic Bifurcation Facilitated by Intravascular Lithotripsy With Shockwave Balloon: A Case Report. Covered Endovascular Reconstruction of Aortic Bifurcation Facilitated by Intravascular Lithotripsy With Shockwave Balloon: A Case Report. 2024; 16:e66874. doi: 10.7759/cureus.66874

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/39280480/
