PMID: 39285968
Title: Catheter embolization for pulmonary arteriovenous malformations during chemotherapy for appendiceal adenocarcinoma: A case report of associated brain abscess.

Abstract: Pulmonary arteriovenous malformations are rare, abnormal, low-resistance vascular structures that connect a pulmonary artery to a vein. They are common in patients with hereditary hemorrhagic telangiectasia; however, acquired malformations can occur in patients with underlying diseases such as chest trauma, hepatic cirrhosis, and mitral stenosis. Pulmonary arteriovenous malformations bypass the normal pulmonary capillary bed and result in intrapulmonary right-to-left shunts, which may cause central nervous system complications such as brain abscesses or ischemic stroke. Brain abscesses related to pulmonary arteriovenous malformations are not uncommon; however, reports of their occurrence during chemotherapy are limited. Here, we report the case of a 68-year-old woman with bilateral pulmonary arteriovenous malformations and appendiceal adenocarcinoma who developed a bacterial brain abscess during chemotherapy. The infection was treated using abscess drainage and antibiotic therapy. After the brain abscess healed, catheter embolization was performed on the pulmonary arteriovenous malformations and chemotherapy was resumed. The present case suggests that if a patient with a malignancy has a pulmonary arteriovenous malformation, clinicians should pay special attention to complications such as brain abscesses during chemotherapy. For patients who do not urgently need chemotherapy, embolization of the pulmonary arteriovenous malformation before chemotherapy may be a better treatment option.

Citation: Yagi T, et al. Catheter embolization for pulmonary arteriovenous malformations during chemotherapy for appendiceal adenocarcinoma: A case report of associated brain abscess. Catheter embolization for pulmonary arteriovenous malformations during chemotherapy for appendiceal adenocarcinoma: A case report of associated brain abscess. 2024; 19:5507-5512. doi: 10.1016/j.radcr.2024.08.066

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/39285968/
