PMID: 39296739
Title: Isolated choroid plexus infarction caused by multiple occlusive cerebrovascular lesions.

Abstract: The choroid plexus is the secretory tissue responsible for cerebrospinal fluid production in the brain. Ischemia of the choroid plexus is rare because of its abundant blood supply from multiple arterial systems, including the anterior and posterior choroidal arterial anastomoses. It is not clear under what circumstances isolated choroid plexus infarction occurs. A 56-year-old woman presented to our hospital after experiencing several episodes of paroxysmal dizziness and weakness in her right upper extremity that lasted several hours. She had a 10-year history of hypertension, diabetes mellitus, and hyperlipidemia, which were very poorly controlled. Magnetic resonance imaging confirmed isolated right choroid plexus infarction. Magnetic resonance angiography showed severe stenosis of the cavernous portion of the right internal carotid artery, occlusion of the distal portion of the right posterior cerebral artery, and occlusion of the contralateral left internal carotid artery. Thus, we hypothesized that isolated choroid plexus infarction was caused by ischemia due to both atherosclerotic changes in large vessels spanning multiple vasculatures and microangiopathy around the choroid plexus due to diabetes, hypertension, and hyperlipidemia. In choroid plexus infarction, both occlusive changes in multiple large vessels and microangiopathy may be involved, and the underlying cause of these changes should be thoroughly investigated. Although choroid plexus infarction may not be significant neurologically, it may shed light on further pathogenesis in this complex structure.

Citation: Kajita M, et al. Isolated choroid plexus infarction caused by multiple occlusive cerebrovascular lesions. Isolated choroid plexus infarction caused by multiple occlusive cerebrovascular lesions. 2024; 19:5633-5638. doi: 10.1016/j.radcr.2024.08.075

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/39296739/
