PMID: 39290181
Title: Baicalin promotes migration and angiogenesis of endothelial progenitor cells but impedes thrombus formation via SIRT1/NF-κB signaling in a rat model of deep vein thrombosis.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Deep vein thrombosis (DVT) is the third most prevalent vascular disease worldwide, seriously threatening human health. Baicalin, a flavonoid isolated from the roots of Scutellaria baicalensis, has been identified to play a crucial role in various vascular diseases. The study aimed to explore the efficacy and underlying mechanisms of baicalin in DVT.
METHODS: Endothelial progenitor cells (EPCs) were differentiated from peripheral blood mononuclear cells isolated from rat bone marrow. Dil-ac-LDL/FITC-UEA-1 double staining and flow cytometry analysis were conducted for the identification of EPCs. The angiogenesis and migration of EPCs in vitro were tested by a tube formation assay and Transwell assay, respectively. DVT rat models were established by stenosis of the inferior vena cava (IVC). After the euthanasia of rats, thrombi in the IVC were collected and weighed, and histological alterations in IVC tissue were measured by H&amp;E staining. The protein levels of SIRT1, p-P65, and p65 in rat IVC tissues were quantified via western blotting.
RESULTS: EPCs used in this study displayed a spindle-like shape and were positive for endothelial cell-specific markers, suggesting the phenotypic characteristics of EPCs. Baicalin enhanced the migratory and angiogenetic abilities of EPCs in vitro. For in vivo experiments, baicalin reduced thrombus weight and mitigated DVT formation in model rats. Moreover, baicalin activated SIRT but repressed NF-κB signaling in IVC tissues of DVT rats.
CONCLUSION: Baicalin facilitates migration and angiogenesis of EPCs but impedes thrombus formation via regulation of SIRT1/NF-κB signaling in DVT model rats.

Citation: Xie J, et al. Baicalin promotes migration and angiogenesis of endothelial progenitor cells but impedes thrombus formation via SIRT1/NF-κB signaling in a rat model of deep vein thrombosis. Baicalin promotes migration and angiogenesis of endothelial progenitor cells but impedes thrombus formation via SIRT1/NF-κB signaling in a rat model of deep vein thrombosis. 2024; (unknown volume):18799. doi: 10.14670/HH-18-799

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/39290181/
