PMID: 39293505
Title: Adult obstetricians and gynecologists lack knowledge of anorectal malformations - a call for action: Gynecologists lack knowledge of anorectal malformations.

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: Patients with anorectal malformations (ARMs) may have concurrent gynecologic abnormalities. As patients grow, they typically transition from pediatric subspeciality care and seek adult OB/GYN related services. We aimed to assess adult OB/GYN physicians' knowledge, competency, and comfort meeting the sexual and reproductive health care needs of patients with ARM.
METHODS: We performed a cross-sectional observational survey-based study of graduates from a single academic OB/GYN residency program from 2013-2022. Physicians were surveyed on experience, comfort, and challenges caring for patients with ARMs and given a knowledge assessment. Descriptive and comparative statistics between those who did and did not complete a pediatric and adolescent gynecology (PAG) rotation were generated.
RESULTS: There were 59 respondents (53.6%). Fewer than half (39.0%) report caring for a patient with ARM, an appendicovesicostomy (12.3%) or an appendicostomy (5.4%). Most felt uncomfortable (80.4%) or felt they lacked competence caring for these patients (81.8%). The majority (64.3%) felt ARMs should be discussed in residency. Only one physician (1.7%) answered all questions in the knowledge assessment correctly; 33.9% did not answer any question correctly. On subgroup analysis, more physicians completing a PAG rotation recalled learning about ARMs (83.3 vs 51.9%, p=0.03); however, there were no differences in experience, comfort, competence, or willingness to learn.
CONCLUSION: OB/GYN providers report lack of knowledge and comfort in caring for patients with ARMs. Development of a standardized OB/GYN residency curriculum and education for practicing OB/GYN physicians is necessary to allow access to knowledgeable sexual and reproductive health for this patient population.

Citation: Srinivas S, et al. Adult obstetricians and gynecologists lack knowledge of anorectal malformations - a call for action: Gynecologists lack knowledge of anorectal malformations. Adult obstetricians and gynecologists lack knowledge of anorectal malformations - a call for action: Gynecologists lack knowledge of anorectal malformations. 2024; (unknown volume):(unknown pages). doi: 10.1016/j.jpag.2024.09.001

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/39293505/
