PMID: 39306511
Title: The use of peritoneum in female genital gender-affirming surgery: A systematic review.

Abstract: Genital gender-affirming surgery (GAS) plays a crucial role in alleviating psychological discomfort and assisting transgender patients in achieving their transition goals. One of the most common procedures for primary genital reconstruction in transwomen is penile inversion vaginoplasty. But it presents a risk of vaginal stenosis and limited depth, particularly in cases with inadequate penile and scrotal tissue. This limitation becomes more relevant as transgender individuals increasingly seek early hormone therapy and puberty blockade. We conducted a literature review focusing on studies published between 2000 and 2022 to explore the application of peritoneal vaginoplasty, a technique primarily used in cisgender women with congenital vaginal agenesis, to address these challenges in transwomen. Data were extracted from 13 selected articles reporting 313 patients who underwent peritoneal vaginoplasty. Peritoneal vaginoplasty was found to offer advantages in terms of neovaginal depth and width, with an average depth of 13.8cm and width of 3.5cm. Patient reporting satisfaction rates for sexual intercourse and dilatation achievement were high, with 96.2% and 94.4% respectively. The technique did not result in an increased rate of complications compared to traditional penile inversion vaginoplasty. This review suggests that peritoneal vaginoplasty could be consider first for transwomen genital GAS, especially in cases with limited penile tissue. The well-vascularized peritoneum provides tissue with regenerative capacities and reduces the risk of stenosis. Moreover, peritoneum remains unaffected by hormonal treatments and allows deep enough neovaginal canals. This method is safe and does not lead to increased complications compared to traditional techniques.

Citation: Tondu M, et al. The use of peritoneum in female genital gender-affirming surgery: A systematic review. The use of peritoneum in female genital gender-affirming surgery: A systematic review. 2024; (unknown volume):(unknown pages). doi: 10.1016/j.anplas.2024.08.002

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/39306511/
