PMID: 39309847
Title: Geometric consistency among atherosclerotic plaques in carotid arteries evaluated by multidimensional parameters.

Abstract: The three-dimensional (3D) geometry of carotid atherosclerotic plaques is associated with multiple cardiovascular diseases. However, it is unknown if carotid plaques of different sizes are consistent in 3D geometry, with a lack of quantitative observation. We aim to evaluate the geometric consistency of carotid plaques using the correlations between multidimensional parameters. 42 cases with asymptomatic stenosis caused by atherosclerotic plaque in the carotid artery were included. Carotid plaques and calcifications were identified on computed tomography angiography images and 3D reconstructed. Multidimensional geometric parameters (length, surface area, volume, etc.) were measured on the reconstructed 3D structures. Linear and non-linear (power function) fittings were used to investigate the relationships between multidimensional parameters. The analysis was performed based on cases and plaques, respectively. Spearman rank correlation analysis, R-squared, and p-values were used to evaluate the significance of the relationship. Significant relationship was defined as R-squared >0.25 and p < 0.05. In total, 112 atherosclerotic plaques and 74 calcifications were extracted. In plaque-based analysis, significant correlations were widely observed between paired multidimensional parameters of carotid plaques, where non-linear fitting showed higher R-squared values. Plaque volume and surface area were significantly correlated with total volume and total surface area of intra-plaque calcifications. In subject-based analysis, triglycerides and total cholesterol were significantly correlated with carotid plaque size. There is a consistency in geometry among carotid atherosclerotic plaques of different sizes. The size of a carotid plaque is associated with the patient's lipid profile.

Citation: Li L, et al. Geometric consistency among atherosclerotic plaques in carotid arteries evaluated by multidimensional parameters. Geometric consistency among atherosclerotic plaques in carotid arteries evaluated by multidimensional parameters. 2024; 10:e37419. doi: 10.1016/j.heliyon.2024.e37419

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/39309847/
