PMID: 39306095
Title: Enhanced venous thrombosis and hypercoagulability in murine and human metabolic dysfunction-associated steatohepatitis.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Patients with metabolic dysfunction-associated steatohepatitis (MASH) are at an increased risk of developing venous thromboembolic events, including deep vein thrombosis (DVT). To date, the study of DVT in MASH has been hampered by the lack of reliable models that mimic the pathologic aspects of human disease.
OBJECTIVES: To evaluate DVT severity and hypercoagulability in murine and human MASH.
METHODS: Transcriptional changes in the liver, plasma markers of coagulation, and DVT severity were evaluated in mice fed a standard chow diet or a high-fructose, high-fat, and high-cholesterol MASH diet for 24 weeks. Plasma analyses of coagulation markers and thrombin generation assays were performed in a well-characterized cohort of patients with or without MASH.
RESULTS: Mice fed the MASH diet developed steatohepatitis and fibrosis, mimicking human MASH. Liver RNA sequencing revealed a significant upregulation of pathways related to inflammation and coagulation concomitant with increased levels of plasma coagulation markers including increased prothrombin fragment 1+2, thrombin-antithrombin complex, plasminogen activator inhibitor-1 levels, and endothelin 1. MASH exacerbated DVT severity in mice, as evidenced by increased thrombus weight and higher thrombosis incidence (15/15 vs 11/15 in controls, P = .0317). Higher endothelin 1 release and increased apoptosis were found in endothelial cells stimulated with supernatants of palmitate-stimulated HepG2 cells. Patients with MASH exhibited increased levels of plasma coagulation markers and delayed thrombin generation.
CONCLUSION: We report enhanced DVT severity and hypercoagulability, both in murine and human MASH. Our model of MASH-DVT can facilitate a better understanding of the fundamental mechanisms leading to increased venous thromboembolic events in patients with MASH.

Citation: Pandey N, et al. Enhanced venous thrombosis and hypercoagulability in murine and human metabolic dysfunction-associated steatohepatitis. Enhanced venous thrombosis and hypercoagulability in murine and human metabolic dysfunction-associated steatohepatitis. 2024; (unknown volume):(unknown pages). doi: 10.1016/j.jtha.2024.08.023

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/39306095/
