PMID: 39303394
Title: Validation evidence with experimental and clinical data to establish credibility of TAVI patient-specific simulations.

Abstract: PURPOSE: The objective of this study is to validate a novel workflow for implementing patient-specific finite element (FE) simulations to virtually replicate the Transcatheter Aortic Valve Implantation (TAVI) procedure.
METHODS: Seven patients undergoing TAVI were enrolled. Patient-specific anatomical models were reconstructed from pre-operative computed tomography (CT) scans and subsequentially discretized, considering the native aortic leaflets and calcifications. Moreover, high-fidelity models of CoreValve Evolut R and Acurate Neo2 valves were built. To determine the most suitable material properties for the two stents, an accurate calibration process was undertaken. This involved conducting crimping simulations and fine-tuning Nitinol parameters to fit experimental force-diameter curves. Subsequently, FE simulations of TAVI procedures were conducted. To validate the reliability of the implemented implantation simulations, qualitative and quantitative comparisons with post-operative clinical data, such as angiographies and CT scans, were performed.
RESULTS: For both devices, the simulation curves closely matched the experimental data, indicating successful validation of the valves mechanical behaviour. An accurate qualitative superimposition with both angiographies and CTs was evident, proving the reliability of the simulated implantation. Furthermore, a mean percentage difference of 1,79 ± 0,93 % and 3,67 ± 2,73 % between the simulated and segmented final configurations of the stents was calculated in terms of orifice area and eccentricity, respectively.
CONCLUSION: This study shows the successful validation of TAVI simulations in patient-specific anatomies, offering a valuable tool to optimize patients care through personalized pre-operative planning. A systematic approach for the validation is presented, laying the groundwork for enhanced predictive modeling in clinical practice.

Citation: Grossi B, et al. Validation evidence with experimental and clinical data to establish credibility of TAVI patient-specific simulations. Validation evidence with experimental and clinical data to establish credibility of TAVI patient-specific simulations. 2024; 182:109159. doi: 10.1016/j.compbiomed.2024.109159

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/39303394/
