PMID: 39311059
Title: Surgical treatment of traumatic nasal avulsion in a brachycephalic dog.

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: To describe the successful treatment of traumatic nasal avulsion injury resulting in dynamic nasal stenosis and rostroventral deviation of the nasal cartilage.
ANIMALS: A 6-year-old spayed female pug presented with traumatic nasal avulsion injuries.
STUDY DESIGN: Case report.
METHODS: The initial surgical intervention involved facial reconstructive surgery to repair a maxillary lip avulsion. Following the diagnosis of stenosis in both common nasal meatuses resulting in respiratory distress a week after the initial surgery, balloon dilatation of the nasal passages and rhinoplasty were additionally performed. Ten weeks after the traumatic event, the diagnosis of dynamic nasal stenosis and rostroventral nasal cartilage deviation secondary to dorsal and lateral nasal ligament injuries was made. Balloon dilatation was repeated, along with nasal skin fold resection and realignment of the nasal passages. To stabilize nasal alignment, dorsal and lateral nasal ligaments were reconstructed to stabilize the alignment. Bilateral temporary endonasal stents were inserted into the nasal meatuses to maintain alignment and patency of the dilated passage during recovery.
RESULTS: No complications were observed after the final surgery. The stents were subsequently removed 4 weeks after placement. An 8-month follow-up examination following the final surgical procedure revealed improved and subjectively normal airflow through both nares. The dog died 2 years after the last surgery due to severe bronchitis. Until her death, the dog tolerated exercise well and maintained good breathing even at night without snoring during sleep.
CONCLUSION: This case report describes the successful surgical treatment of traumatic nasal avulsion injury in a brachycephalic dog.

Citation: Saitoh Y, et al. Surgical treatment of traumatic nasal avulsion in a brachycephalic dog. Surgical treatment of traumatic nasal avulsion in a brachycephalic dog. 2024; 53:1469-1476. doi: 10.1111/vsu.14165

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/39311059/
