PMID: 39312053
Title: Laparoscopic Duodenum and Spleen-Preserving Subtotal or Total Pancreatectomy: A Parenchyma-Sparing Strategy for Main Duct Intraductal Papillary Mucinous Neoplasms (with Video).

Abstract: BACKGROUND: For premalignant main duct intraductal papillary mucinous neoplasms (MD-IPMN), laparoscopic duodenum and spleen-preserving subtotal or total pancreatectomy (LDSP-STP/TP) seems to be a viable option for parenchyma-sparing pancreatectomy.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: On the basis of the imaging features, family history, genomic alterations, intraoperative ultrasound examination, and frozen section evaluation, we have proposed patient selection strategies for the LDSP-STP/TP technique for the first time. Additionally, a comprehensive step-by-step overview of this technique has been provided. To date, we have performed five LDSP-STP procedures and one LDSP-TP procedure.
RESULTS: We successfully performed selective resection of the affected pancreatic parenchyma while preserving the duodenum, common bile duct (CBD), spleen, and splenic artery and vein. The operation time ranged from 295 to 495 min, with blood loss ranging from 100 to 300 mL. Postoperative pathological results revealed low-grade dysplasia in the resected pancreatic samples and margins. The patients resumed eating within 3-5 days after surgery, and all postoperative complications were classified as grade I according to the Clavien-Dindo classification. At the 3-month follow-up, there were no cases of CBD ischemic stenosis, splenic ischemia, or pseudocyst formation observed. For patients who received LDSP-STP, the longitudinal diameter of the remaining pancreatic tail ranged from 2.2 to 4.6 cm, and they demonstrated satisfactory long-term blood glycemic control.
CONCLUSIONS: LDSP-STP/TP demonstrates technical feasibility and safety. It allows for the selective resection of the affected pancreatic parenchyma, thereby minimizing the impact of pancreatic functional impairment. However, it is crucial to validate this technique through long-term prospective observations.

Citation: Li Z, et al. Laparoscopic Duodenum and Spleen-Preserving Subtotal or Total Pancreatectomy: A Parenchyma-Sparing Strategy for Main Duct Intraductal Papillary Mucinous Neoplasms (with Video). Laparoscopic Duodenum and Spleen-Preserving Subtotal or Total Pancreatectomy: A Parenchyma-Sparing Strategy for Main Duct Intraductal Papillary Mucinous Neoplasms (with Video). 2024; 31:8734-8740. doi: 10.1245/s10434-024-16244-2

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/39312053/
