PMID: 39311570
Title: Treatment of Acute Iatrogenic Cerebrovascular Injury Using Flow Diverter Stents.

Abstract: BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES: Iatrogenic cerebrovascular injury can cause intracranial hemorrhage and pseudoaneurysm formation, putting patients at high risk for postoperative bleeding. No consensus for management exists. This study describes endovascular treatment of these acute injuries with flow diverter stents.
METHODS: Electronic medical records were retrospectively reviewed for injury type and etiology, timing of diagnosis, and endovascular management, including antiplatelet regimens, embolization results, and clinical outcome.
RESULTS: Six patients were included. Three suffered an injury to the internal carotid artery, 1 suffered an injury to the left anterior cerebral artery, 1 suffered an injury to the right posterior cerebral artery, and 1 suffered an injury to the basilar artery. Four of the 6 injuries occurred during attempted tumor resection, 1 occurred during cerebrospinal fluid leak repair, and 1 occurred during an ophthalmic artery aneurysm clipping. All injuries resulted in pseudoaneurysm formation. Four were immediately detected on angiography; 2 were initially negative on imaging. Five were treated with a pipeline embolization device, and 1 was treated with a Silk Vista Baby. Two were treated with 2 pipeline embolization devices telescopically overlapped across the pseudoaneurysm. All devices deployed successfully. No pseudoaneurysm recurrence or rebleeding occurred. No parent artery occlusion or stenosis was observed, and complete pseudoaneurysm occlusion was observed in 4 patients (in 2 patients, follow-up imaging could not be obtained).
CONCLUSION: With proper antiplatelet regimens, flow diverter stents can be used safely to successfully treat complex acute iatrogenic injuries. Early repeat angiogram is needed when immediate postinjury imaging does not discover the point of vessel injury.

Citation: Grin EA, et al. Treatment of Acute Iatrogenic Cerebrovascular Injury Using Flow Diverter Stents. Treatment of Acute Iatrogenic Cerebrovascular Injury Using Flow Diverter Stents. 2024; (unknown volume):(unknown pages). doi: 10.1227/ons.0000000000001379

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/39311570/
