PMID: 39328843
Title: Right coronary ischaemia caused by a sinus of Valsalva aneurysm improved by releasing mechanical stretch: a case report.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: A sinus of Valsalva aneurysm involving a single cusp is a rare condition, and coronary computed tomography angiography with fractional flow reserve-computed tomography helps evaluate not only the anatomical aspects of the aneurysm and coronary artery but also the physiological details of coronary artery disease.
CASE SUMMARY: A 71-year-old woman presented with exertional chest pain and dyspnoea. Enhanced computed tomography revealed an aneurysmal change in the right sinus of Valsalva, and coronary computed tomography angiography revealed diffuse narrowing of the proximal segment of right coronary artery due to mechanical stretching by the large Valsalva aneurysm. Fractional flow reserve-computed tomography revealed a significantly low fractional flow reserve (0.50 in the distal right coronary artery). A modified Bentall procedure was performed with a 21 mm bioprosthetic valve and a 24 mm Valsalva graft conduit for the aortic root aneurysm; mitral valve annuloplasty was performed for mitral valve regurgitation. Post-operative coronary computed tomography angiography revealed no significant stenosis in the proximal segment of the right coronary artery. Furthermore, fractional flow reserve-computed tomography revealed a normalized fractional flow reserve in the distal right coronary artery. The patient experienced relief from chest pain and was discharged 19 days after the surgery.
DISCUSSION: A right coronary sinus of Valsalva aneurysm, which caused right coronary artery ischaemia, was successfully treated using a modified Bentall procedure. Coronary computed tomography angiography and fractional flow reserve-computed tomography revealed anatomical and functional improvements in the right coronary artery ischaemia post-operatively.

Citation: Yamazaki S, et al. Right coronary ischaemia caused by a sinus of Valsalva aneurysm improved by releasing mechanical stretch: a case report. Right coronary ischaemia caused by a sinus of Valsalva aneurysm improved by releasing mechanical stretch: a case report. 2024; 8:ytae416. doi: 10.1093/ehjcr/ytae416

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/39328843/
