PMID: 39327412
Title: Comprehensive geriatric assessment, and related interventions, to improve outcomes for older patients undergoing transcatheter aortic valve implantation (TAVI): a systematic review.

Abstract: INTRODUCTION: Transcatheter aortic valve implantation (TAVI) is a treatment for people with severe symptomatic aortic stenosis, particularly those living with frailty. Increasing frailty is associated with poorer outcomes post-TAVI. Comprehensive Geriatric Assessment (CGA) has been shown in other settings to improve outcomes in those with frailty, including perioperatively. This systematic review aims to determine whether CGA, or interventions targeting its components, improves outcomes for older people undergoing TAVI.
METHODS: EMBASE, MEDLINE, CINAHL and Cochrane CENTRAL were searched on 09/01/23 and then the search was rerun on the 16/04/24. The review was registered on PROSPERO (CRD42022299955). Included studies had to evaluate either CGA, or a single- or multi-domain intervention targeting components of CGA, in those aged ≥ 65.
RESULTS: From 4091 papers, 24 met the inclusion criteria. Two studies assessed CGA pre-TAVI and reported mixed improvements in functional independence but no change in length of stay or post-operative delirium, although both studies had a serious risk of bias. Fifteen papers described an exercise-based intervention, and 1 paper detailed a Cognitive Behavioural Therapy-based intervention. Seven studies evaluated a multi-component intervention. There were conflicting results reported for the multi-component and single-component interventions. All studies had at least a moderate risk of bias.
CONCLUSION(S): There is a lack of evidence to determine whether CGA, or related interventions, improve outcomes for older adults undergoing-TAVI. The evidence for perioperative CGA, and the results of this review, support the need for well-designed trials evaluating whether CGA improves outcomes post-TAVI for older adults living with frailty.

Citation: Chin K, et al. Comprehensive geriatric assessment, and related interventions, to improve outcomes for older patients undergoing transcatheter aortic valve implantation (TAVI): a systematic review. Comprehensive geriatric assessment, and related interventions, to improve outcomes for older patients undergoing transcatheter aortic valve implantation (TAVI): a systematic review. 2024; (unknown volume):(unknown pages). doi: 10.1007/s41999-024-01035-5

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/39327412/
