PMID: 39330316
Title: A Multi-Biomarker Approach to Increase the Accuracy of Diagnosis and Management of Coronary Artery Disease.

Abstract: Non-invasive possibilities of predicting cardiovascular risk and monitoring the treatment and progression of coronary artery disease (CAD) are important subjects of cardiovascular research. Various inflammatory markers have been identified as potential biomarkers of CAD, including interleukin-6 (IL-6), lipocalin-2 (LCN-2), growth differentiation factor 15 (GDF-15), and T cell immunoglobulin and mucin domain-3 (TIM-3). This research aims to identify their utility in the investigation of CAD severity and progression. The basic anthropometric parameters, as well as the levels of urea, creatinine, CRP, leukocytes, fibrinogen, and biomarkers of inflammation, were measured in 130 patients who underwent coronary angiography. In male patients, divided according to findings on coronary angiography, we observed an increasing expression of GDF-15 with increasing stenosis (with worsening findings). In females, we observed increasing fibrinogen expression with increasing stenosis, i.e., findings on coronary angiography. Correlation analysis did not confirm the relationship between TIM-3, LCN and 2, IL-6 and the severity of findings obtained by coronary angiography; however, the correlation of TIM-3 and LCN-2 expression was positive with the finding, and the correlation of IL-6 with the finding was surprisingly negative. Understanding the role of these inflammatory markers in CAD can be helpful in risk stratification, guiding therapeutic strategies, and monitoring treatment responses in patients with CAD.

Citation: Hostačná L, et al. A Multi-Biomarker Approach to Increase the Accuracy of Diagnosis and Management of Coronary Artery Disease. A Multi-Biomarker Approach to Increase the Accuracy of Diagnosis and Management of Coronary Artery Disease. 2024; 11:(unknown pages). doi: 10.3390/jcdd11090258

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/39330316/
