PMID: 39332702
Title: Evolution of Medical and Surgical Management of Carotid Disease from Carotid Endarterectomy to Transfemoral Carotid Stenting to TCAR.

Abstract: Patients with carotid stenosis can be broadly classified into 2 categories: symptomatic and asymptomatic. While there is little disagreement about surgical management of symptomatic carotid stenosis, the optimal management strategy for the patients with asymptomatic carotid disease has undergone significant evolution over past 5 decades. With increasing focus on role of plaque morphology on the etiology of symptoms, there has been an increased focus on optimizing the medical management targeted at plaque stabilization, especially for the patients with asymptomatic carotid disease, while reserving the most aggressive surgical treatment options for the patients with symptomatic carotid stenosis. This review summarizes the scientific evidence based on multiple large clinical studies showing how the modern-day management of carotid stenosis has evolved. Multiple, large randomized clinical trials have established carotid endarterectomy (CEA) as the treatment of choice for symptomatic patients with symptomatic, >50% stenosis of carotid artery or those who have asymptomatic high-grade carotid stenosis. With the advancements in endovascular techniques, the technique of transfemoral carotid artery stenting (TF-CAS) was popularized, but after multiple, large randomized controlled trials demonstrated superiority of CEA, the indications for TF-CAS as the initial operation of choice for carotid disease for all patients have been reduced. In the past 5 years, the introduction of the newer technique of trans carotid artery revascularization (TCAR) has shown promising results with significant reduction in the incidence of perioperative complications as compared to CEA and TF-CAS; however, there have been no randomized controlled trials comparing TCAR to either CEA or TF-CAS. Moreover, with the developments in the medical field with introduction of several new medications which have been demonstrated to successfully change the plaque morphology, there has been a renewed interest in exploring if the indications for surgical management for the asymptomatic carotid disease should be revisited.

Citation: Hakimi A, et al. Evolution of Medical and Surgical Management of Carotid Disease from Carotid Endarterectomy to Transfemoral Carotid Stenting to TCAR. Evolution of Medical and Surgical Management of Carotid Disease from Carotid Endarterectomy to Transfemoral Carotid Stenting to TCAR. 2024; (unknown volume):(unknown pages). doi: 10.1016/j.avsg.2024.09.042

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/39332702/
