PMID: 39334884
Title: Vascular Cytokines and Atherosclerosis: Differential Serum Levels of TRAIL, IL-18, and OPG in Obstructive Coronary Artery Disease.

Abstract: The risk-factor-based prediction of atherosclerotic coronary artery disease (CAD) remains suboptimal, particularly in the absence of any of the standard modifiable cardiovascular risk factors (SMuRFs), making the discovery of biomarkers that correlate with atherosclerosis burden critically important. We hypothesized that cytokines and receptors associated with inflammation in CAD-tumor necrosis factor-related apoptosis-inducing ligand (TRAIL), interleukin-18 (IL-18), and osteoprotegerin (OPG)-would be independently associated with CAD. To determine this, we measured the serum biomarker levels of 993 participants from the BioHEART study who had CT coronary angiograms that were scored for severity of stenosis and plaque composition. We found that the quartiles of TRAIL, OPG, and IL-18 were significantly associated with disease scores, and that the IL-18/TRAIL and OPG/TRAIL ratios demonstrated significant differences between no CAD vs. STEMI whereas only the OPG/TRAIL ratio showed differences between no CAD and obstructive CAD (stenosis > 50%). However, these associations did not persist after adjustment for age, sex, SMuRFs, and a family history of CAD. In conclusion, TRAIL, IL-18, and OPG and the derived ratios of IL-18/TRAIL and OPG/TRAIL demonstrate significant associations with raw disease scores and risk factors, but these markers are not discriminatory biomarkers for the prediction of CAD when incorporated into multi-variable risk models.

Citation: Bate KA, et al. Vascular Cytokines and Atherosclerosis: Differential Serum Levels of TRAIL, IL-18, and OPG in Obstructive Coronary Artery Disease. Vascular Cytokines and Atherosclerosis: Differential Serum Levels of TRAIL, IL-18, and OPG in Obstructive Coronary Artery Disease. 2024; 14:(unknown pages). doi: 10.3390/biom14091119

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/39334884/
