PMID: 39343437
Title: Angioplasty and/or stenting following successful mechanical thrombectomy for intracranial atherosclerosis-related emergent large vessel occlusive stroke (ASSET): protocol of a multicentre randomised trial.

Abstract: RATIONALE: The management of residual stenosis after mechanical thrombectomy in patients with intracranial atherosclerotic stenosis-related emerge large vessel occlusive (ICAS-LVO) stroke is still unclear question in clinical practice.
AIM: To demonstrate the design of a clinical trial on emergency balloon angioplasty and/or stenting (BAS) combined with standard medical treatment (SMT) for residual stenosis of ICAS-LVO stroke patients with successful recanalisation.
DESIGN: ASSET is a multicentre, prospective, randomised, open-label, blinded end-point, controlled clinical trial designed (PROBE) by investigators. This trial evaluates the effectiveness and the safety of emergency BAS in combination with SMT compared with SMT alone in ICAS-LVO stroke patients with successful recanalisation (defined as expanded treatment in cerebral ischaemia grade of 2b50-3 and maintained for more than 20 min) and residual stenosis (defined as ≥50%) up to 24 hours after the onset of symptoms or the last known well.
OUTCOME: The primary outcome assessed at 90 (±7) days after randomisation is the incidence of ischaemic stroke in the responsible vessel. Symptomatic intracranial haemorrhage within 24 (±3) hours is the primary safety outcome.
DISCUSSION: The ASSET trial is designed to provide strong evidence on the effectiveness and safety of emergency BAS to treat residual stenosis after successful recanalisation in patients with ICAS-LVO stroke.
TRIAL REGISTRATION NUMBER: ChiCTR2300079069.

Citation: Liao G, et al. Angioplasty and/or stenting following successful mechanical thrombectomy for intracranial atherosclerosis-related emergent large vessel occlusive stroke (ASSET): protocol of a multicentre randomised trial. Angioplasty and/or stenting following successful mechanical thrombectomy for intracranial atherosclerosis-related emergent large vessel occlusive stroke (ASSET): protocol of a multicentre randomised trial. 2024; (unknown volume):(unknown pages). doi: 10.1136/svn-2024-003435

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/39343437/
