PMID: 39343570
Title: Association between the Mean Platelet Volume and Prosthesis-patient Mismatch after Transcatheter Aortic Valve Replacement.

Abstract: Objective The mean platelet volume (MPV), a marker of platelet activity, is significantly higher in patients with aortic stenosis (AS) than in those without AS. The association between the platelet function and prosthesis-patient mismatch (PPM) after transcatheter aortic valve replacement (TAVR) remains unknown. Therefore, we investigated this association by measuring the MPV. Methods Of 237 patients who underwent TAVR, 148 with a median age of 84 years old were enrolled in this study. Blood tests and transthoracic echocardiography were performed at baseline and approximately six months after TAVR. PPM was defined as an aortic valve area index ≤0.85 cm2/m2 after TAVR. Variable changes from baseline to six-month follow-up were compared between patients with and without PPM. Results Forty-five patients (30%) developed PPM. The MPV was significantly higher in patients with PPM than in those without PPM. However, regarding the magnitude of change, the MPV was significantly less reduced in patients with PPM, and the percentage of patients with reduced MPV was lower in patients with PPM than in those without PPM. A logistic regression analysis revealed that a higher MPV and lack of MPV reduction at the six-month follow-up were independent predictors of PPM. Conclusion MPV values at the six-month follow-up were associated with PPM after TAVR in patients with AS. MPV values increase when PPM is present after TAVR and may be an indicator during the postoperative follow-up.

Citation: Morita Y, et al. Association between the Mean Platelet Volume and Prosthesis-patient Mismatch after Transcatheter Aortic Valve Replacement. Association between the Mean Platelet Volume and Prosthesis-patient Mismatch after Transcatheter Aortic Valve Replacement. 2024; (unknown volume):(unknown pages). doi: 10.2169/internalmedicine.4205-24

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/39343570/
