PMID: 39351810
Title: Improved outcomes with leadless vs. single-chamber transvenous pacemaker in haemodialysis patients.

Abstract: AIMS: Cardiac conduction disorders are common in haemodialysis patients, with a relatively high rate of pacemaker implantations. Pacemaker-related complications, especially lead infections and central venous stenosis, pose significant challenges in this population. This study aims to compare single-chamber leadless pacemaker to single-chamber transvenous pacemakers in terms of survival and related complications in haemodialysis patients.
METHODS AND RESULTS: This retrospective study included adult haemodialysis patients who received a first single-chamber transvenous or leadless pacemaker between January 2017 and December 2020. Data were obtained from the French national REIN registry matched to the national health databases (Système National des Données de Santé). Propensity score matching was used to balance baseline characteristics. Survival and complications were compared between groups by Cox regression and by competitive risk models, respectively. One hundred and seventy-eight patients were included after propensity score matching, with 89 patients in each group. The median follow-up time was 24 (range 7-37) months. Leadless pacemakers were associated with significantly lower all-cause mortality rates compared to transvenous pacemakers [hazard ratio (HR) = 0.68, 95% confidence interval (CI) (0.47-0.99)]. Device-related infections are significantly lower with leadless pacemakers throughout the follow-up period (HR 0.43, 95% CI 0.21-0.86). Leadless pacemaker recipients also required fewer vascular access interventions [odds ratio 0.53, 95% CI (0.33-0.68)] on arteriovenous fistula.
CONCLUSION: With the limitations of its observational design, this study suggests that leadless pacemakers are associated with a lower rate of complications and better survival as compared with transvenous VVI pacemakers in haemodialysis patients, supporting to consider their preferential use in this population.

Citation: Panico A, et al. Improved outcomes with leadless vs. single-chamber transvenous pacemaker in haemodialysis patients. Improved outcomes with leadless vs. single-chamber transvenous pacemaker in haemodialysis patients. 2024; 26:(unknown pages). doi: 10.1093/europace/euae257

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/39351810/
