PMID: 39371005
Title: Cerebrovascular Events in Patients Undergoing Transcatheter Aortic Valve Replacement: A Review.

Abstract: Cerebrovascular events (CVEs) are a dreaded complication of transcatheter aortic valve replacement (TAVR). They are associated with significant mortality, morbidity, and reduced quality of life and impose a significant burden to health care systems. Although the rates of clinical stroke have reduced since the advent of TAVR, it remains an important complication, particularly as TAVR is increasingly utilized. CVE may occur at the time of the TAVR, as a direct consequence of the procedure, or may occur later, related to thrombosis of the prosthetic valve, atrial fibrillation, and other comorbidities. Imaging of the brain has revealed a high prevalence of subclinical cerebral infarcts (68%-98%) associated with the TAVR procedure. Although their clinical significance has not been fully established, clinically evident CVE ranges between 3% and 5% in patients considered at high operative risk to between 1% and 3% in low operative risk patients. Periprocedural CVEs are largely the result of embolization of the thrombus and tissue derived from the valve, vasculature, or myocardium. Cerebral embolic protection devices have been studied in multiple trials, with some evidence supporting a reduction in new cerebral lesion volume, number, and potentially disabling strokes. However, thus far, there is no robust evidence that they reduce the overall stroke rate. The number and severity of comorbidities, in particular, new-onset atrial fibrillation, are associated with CVEs. Valve thrombosis diagnosed using computed tomography as areas of hypoattenuated leaflet thickening has been identified in 10% to 15% of patients. This is a dynamic process associated with an increase in CVEs, but that resolves with anticoagulation or sometimes without it. Routine use of anticoagulation compared with a single antiplatelet agent is associated with an increased risk of bleeding, without any additional alleviation in risk of thromboembolism. Future studies to improve risk stratification could facilitate the tailoring of preventive therapies to patients at high risk of CVE, who stand to gain the most benefit.

Citation: Patel KP, et al. Cerebrovascular Events in Patients Undergoing Transcatheter Aortic Valve Replacement: A Review. Cerebrovascular Events in Patients Undergoing Transcatheter Aortic Valve Replacement: A Review. 2024; 55:2754-2764. doi: 10.1161/STROKEAHA.124.047149

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/39371005/
