PMID: 39376026
Title: Identifying idiopathic intracranial hypertension in a hospital-based chronic headache population: Utility of magnetic resonance imaging, magnetic resonance venography and trans-orbital sonography.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: One of the most underestimated types of chronic headaches is headaches as a result of cerebro-spinal fluid dysregulation disorders. Idiopathic intracranial hypertension (IIH) presents with headache and visual symptoms and usually is associated with papilledema. We identified patients with IIH in a chronic headache population presenting to a hospital-based headache clinic, and studied its associations with clinical, sonographic and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) findings.
METHODS: Of 168 patients, 141 chronic headache patients were identified and completed the study procedures (semi-structured medical interview, fundus examination, MRI brain with magnetic resonance venography (MRV) and trans-orbital sonography (TOS)). Patients with abnormal findings underwent lumbar puncture for opening pressure.
RESULTS: The prevalence of IIH was 27%. IIH patients were of higher age, had gnawing/throbbing headache in the vertex in most cases, and had higher body mass index. Fundus examination had a sensitivity of 79% and a specificity of 98% for the detection of IIH cases. Approximately 23% of IIH patients had no papilledema. The most sensitive MR sign was found to be transverse sinus stenosis. TOS showed optic nerve sheath dilation in 35.7% of IIH without papilledema cases.
CONCLUSIONS: The prevalence of IIH is high in the chronic headache population and should be suspected in the headache clinic setting, particularly because there is significant overlap with migraine symptomatology. MRI/MR venography and TOS can be useful adjunct tests to identify IIH patients.

Citation: Rehab MM, et al. Identifying idiopathic intracranial hypertension in a hospital-based chronic headache population: Utility of magnetic resonance imaging, magnetic resonance venography and trans-orbital sonography. Identifying idiopathic intracranial hypertension in a hospital-based chronic headache population: Utility of magnetic resonance imaging, magnetic resonance venography and trans-orbital sonography. 2024; 44:3331024241287212. doi: 10.1177/03331024241287212

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/39376026/
