PMID: 39377926
Title: Cerebrovascular implications of takayasu arteritis: a review.

Abstract: PURPOSE: Takayasu arteritis (TA) is a rare, chronic, inflammatory large-vessel vasculitis that affects the aorta and its main branches, including the cerebrovascular system. This review analyzes current knowledge and patient outcomes concerning the cerebrovascular implications of TA.
METHODS: A literature search, with publications from 1994 to 2024, identified pertinent studies through PubMed. An illustrative case report details a 19-year-old female with Type 1 TA, illustrating the complex decision required in the absence of surgical or endovascular options.
RESULTS: Our results offer a demographic analysis of 1,698 TA patients, highlighting a female predominance of 89.99% and a mean symptom onset at 33 years. The clinical spectrum of cerebrovascular involvement presented varied symptoms, most notably dizziness, with significant incidences of ischemic events and bilateral stenosis primarily affecting the carotid and subclavian arteries. The most common type of TA was Type V, affecting 40% of patients studied. Endovascular treatment had a 95% initial success rate, with a 67% restenosis rate. Surgical treatment was successful in 84% of cases, but 21% had notable post-operative complications. Similar to the endovascular population, those treated with stand-alone conservative therapy saw a 93% initial remission rate with 52% having relapsed.
CONCLUSION: Assessing the disease activity of TA is crucial when planning vascular intervention due to its significant impact on treatment outcomes. Despite its greater initial invasiveness, surgical interventions showed lower restenosis rates compared to either endovascular interventions or standalone conservative management. We emphasize advancements in TA management and the pressing need for continued research into diagnostic and treatment protocols for improved patient outcomes.

Citation: Samaan M, et al. Cerebrovascular implications of takayasu arteritis: a review. Cerebrovascular implications of takayasu arteritis: a review. 2024; (unknown volume):(unknown pages). doi: 10.1007/s00234-024-03472-2

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/39377926/
