PMID: 39375271
Title: Induction of Controllable Vortical Flow in a Dual-Stenosis Aorta Model: A Replication of Disordered Eddies Flow in Aneurysms.

Abstract: This paper presents a two-stenosis aorta model mimicking vortical flow in vascular aneurysms. More specifically, we propose to virtually induce two adjacent stenoses in the abdominal aorta to develop various vortical flow zones post stenoses. Computational fluid dynamics (CFD) simulations were conducted for the virtual two-stenosis model based on physiological and anatomical data (i.e., diameters, flow rate waveforms) from adult rabbits. The virtual model includes adult rabbits' infra-renal portion of the aorta and iliac arteries. 3D CFD simulations in five different dual-stenosis configurations were performed using a commercial CFD package (FLUENT). In-house software assessed the evolution of flow vortices. Notably, spatial-temporally averaged wall shear stress (STA-WSS) and oscillatory shear index (OSI), the total volume of vortex flow, the number of vortices, and the phase-to-phase overlap of vortex flow within each region were evaluated. In all models, we found consistent patterns of the vortex flow parameters, indicating that the adjacent stenoses induced three different hemodynamic zones, namely, stable vortical flow (after the first stenosis), transient vortical flow (after the second stenosis), and unstable vortical flow (further distal to the second stenosis). Also, different degrees of flow disturbance can be achieved in these three zones. It is significant to note that, although the 'dual-stenosis' geometry is completely hypothetical, it allows us to create various vortical flows in consecutive vessel segments for the first time. As a result, if implemented as a pre-clinical model, the proposed two-stenosis model offers an attractive, tunable environment to investigate the interplays between subject-specific hemodynamics and vascular remodeling. This aspect remains in our future directions.

Citation: Wang Z, et al. Induction of Controllable Vortical Flow in a Dual-Stenosis Aorta Model: A Replication of Disordered Eddies Flow in Aneurysms. Induction of Controllable Vortical Flow in a Dual-Stenosis Aorta Model: A Replication of Disordered Eddies Flow in Aneurysms. 2024; (unknown volume):(unknown pages). doi: 10.1007/s12265-024-10566-y

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/39375271/
