PMID: 39374636
Title: Impact of non-immunosuppressive medical therapy on disease progression and complications of Takayasu arteritis: A narrative review.

Abstract: Takayasu's arteritis is a rare large vessel vasculitis typically affecting young Asian women. It causes inflammation of the aorta and its major branches, leading to stenosis and aneurysmal dilations, and increasing cardiovascular morbidity due to accelerated atherosclerosis. Although glucocorticoids are effective for acute disease control and preliminary data on immunosuppressive drugs are promising, standardized treatment protocols are lacking. The use of prophylactic treatments with antihypertensives, antiplatelets, anticoagulants, and lipid-lowering drugs to prevent thrombotic and ischemic complications remains debated. This study reviews the evidence on the effectiveness of non-immunosuppressive medical therapy in Takayasu's arteritis. A search of the PubMed database identified eleven studies involving 204 patients. Antiplatelets: data on 68 patients were mixed, in fact low-dose aspirin did not prevent major cardiovascular events in 36 patients, but higher doses reduced ischemic complications in 24 patients. Anticoagulants: no data on new oral anticoagulants were available, and vitamin K antagonists in 9 patients did not alter cardiovascular complications. Antihypertensives: ACE-inhibitors controlled blood pressure in patients with renovascular hypertension but increased the risk of acute renal function decline, while β-blockers reduced the symptoms and the progression of myocardial hypertrophy in patients with heart failure and aortic regurgitation. Statins: data from two cohorts showed that while statins reduced the recurrence rate of arteritis in 30 patients, they did not affect recurrence rates or cardiovascular complications in 13 patients. Overall, current evidence, although not definitive, supports the use of non-immunosuppressive medical treatments to prevent long-term complications and damage in Takayasu's arteritis, considering the disease's pathophysiological mechanisms and increased cardiovascular risk. Further research is strongly encouraged.

Citation: Terribili R, et al. Impact of non-immunosuppressive medical therapy on disease progression and complications of Takayasu arteritis: A narrative review. Impact of non-immunosuppressive medical therapy on disease progression and complications of Takayasu arteritis: A narrative review. 2024; 23:103656. doi: 10.1016/j.autrev.2024.103656

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/39374636/
