PMID: 39377572
Title: Comparative study of quality of life after aortic valve replacement through partial upper ministernotomy versus full median sternotomy.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Upper ministernotomy for sutureless aortic prosthesis implantation provides an attractive opportunity compared to conventional access. Although in the last decade, the former has gained popularity, data comparing quality of life (QoL) following these procedures are scarce.
OBJECTIVES: The purpose of this study was to assess the patient's QoL after aortic valve replacement (AVR) using a ministernotomy approach compared to a full sternotomy.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: One hundred fifteen AVR patients were operated on using either minimally invasive access with sutureless valve implantation through an upper median ministernotomy (group I; n = 58) or through a full sternotomy (group II; n = 57) with either biological Edwards Perimount Magna™ (Edwards Lifescience, Irvine, USA) (n = 30) or mechanical On-X™ (Carbomedics, Austin, USA) (n = 27) aortic valve prostheses implantation by 1 experienced surgeon. At the end of the follow-up period, QoL was assessed using the EQ-5D-5L scale telephone survey.
RESULTS: In group I, there were significantly fewer problems with mobility, pain and usual activities than in group II (p < 0.05). Moreover, the visual analogue scale (VAS) and Health Index (HI) scores were more favorable for patients treated with ministernotomy. Additionally, group II participants provided comments beyond the survey questions, such as tiredness, dyspnea or pain. These kinds of remarks were not reported in group I. Ultimately, the EQ-5D-5L Index Score (IS) was consistent with the variables and more beneficial for group I subjects. Each group was compatible with the benefits for patients in group I.
CONCLUSIONS: Cardiac surgical procedures for severe aortic stenosis through minimally invasive access are associated with improved QoL parameters.

Citation: Bociański M, et al. Comparative study of quality of life after aortic valve replacement through partial upper ministernotomy versus full median sternotomy. Comparative study of quality of life after aortic valve replacement through partial upper ministernotomy versus full median sternotomy. 2024; (unknown volume):(unknown pages). doi: 10.17219/acem/190454

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/39377572/
