PMID: 39383585
Title: Investigation of lumbar multifidus muscle, pain, and fear of falling in patients with lumbar spinal stenosis with poor balance.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: This study aimed to compare the muscle thickness and cross-sectional area (CSA), pain, disability, and fear of falling in patients with lumbar spinal stenosis (LSS) with and without balance problems.
METHODS: Sixty-four patients diagnosed with LSS by magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) were included in this cross-sectional study. The patients were divided into poor (n=31) and normal balance (n=33) groups according to the single leg standing test. Low back pain (Numeric rating scale), dynamic balance (Time up and go test), disability (Oswestry disability index) and fear of falling (International fall efficacy scale) in patients with LSS levels were evaluated. Lumbar (L4/5) multifidus muscle thickness and CSA were obtained from MRI images.
RESULTS: The poor balance group had a lower L4/5 multifidus thickness (p<0.05) and CSA (p<0.05) than the normal balance group. It was determined that an increase in left L4/5 multifidus muscle CSA was associated with decreased impaired balance (p=0.036). Also, a significant correlation was detected between static balance and muscle thickness and CSA (p<0.01). In addition, low back pain, disability, and fear of falling were significantly higher in LSS patients in the poor balance group (p<0.05).
CONCLUSION: Muscle atrophy and decrease in CSA are more common in LSS patients with poor balance. Decreased L4/5 multifidus muscle CSA may increase the risk of balance impairment. Also, LSS patients with poor balance are more likely to experience pain, disability, and fear of falling. Strategies to improve lumbar muscle stability, mass, and pain may reduce impaired balance in LSS.

Citation: Güneş M, et al. Investigation of lumbar multifidus muscle, pain, and fear of falling in patients with lumbar spinal stenosis with poor balance. Investigation of lumbar multifidus muscle, pain, and fear of falling in patients with lumbar spinal stenosis with poor balance. 2024; 246:108578. doi: 10.1016/j.clineuro.2024.108578

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/39383585/
