PMID: 39382558
Title: Robot-assisted T-plasty for recalcitrant bladder neck stenosis: description of technique and initial results.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: The aim of this study was to describe the technique and initial outcomes of robot-assisted T-plasty for recalcitrant bladder neck stenosis.
METHODS: Patients who underwent robot-assisted T-plasty for recalcitrant bladder neck stenosis in a single center were included. Presence of bladder neck stenosis was preoperatively confirmed by the combination of retrograde urethrography with voiding cysto-urethrography and flexible urethroscopy. Follow-up visits were performed with history taking, uroflowmetry and echographic residual urine measurement. Complications were graded according to the Clavien-Dindo classification. Patients without urinary symptoms and with a maximum uroflow of no less than 15mL/s were considered as successfully treated. Otherwise, cystoscopy would be performed, and recurrence was defined as the inability to pass a 14 French cystoscope through the bladder neck.
RESULTS: Since 2018, seven patients were treated. The etiologies were transurethral resection of the prostate and simple prostatectomy in respectively 6 patients and 1 patient. Cystoscopy was able to diagnose bladder neck stenosis in all cases whereas urethrography was equivocal in 3 out of 7 cases. Median (range) age at surgery was 60 (54-75) years, and median number of prior endoscopic treatment for bladder neck stenosis was 3 (1-16). The median operative time was 123 (110-159) minutes. No intraoperative complications were reported. Three patients suffered a grade 2 complication. After a median follow-up of 27 (4-74) months, the recurrence-free rate was 100% with no evidence of de-novo incontinence or erectile dysfunction.
CONCLUSIONS: In our series, robot-assisted T-plasty suggests positive and safe outcomes in treating recalcitrant bladder neck stenosis with a good patency rate and low incontinence rate. Additionally, cystoscopy is reliable in the diagnosis of patients with inconclusive urethrography results.

Citation: Lumen N, et al. Robot-assisted T-plasty for recalcitrant bladder neck stenosis: description of technique and initial results. Robot-assisted T-plasty for recalcitrant bladder neck stenosis: description of technique and initial results. 2024; (unknown volume):(unknown pages). doi: 10.23736/S2724-6051.24.05872-5

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/39382558/
