PMID: 39381534
Title: A narrative review of magnetic resonance imaging findings in pediatric idiopathic intracranial hypertension.

Abstract: BACKGROUND AND AIMS: Idiopathic intracranial hypertension (IIH) is a rare neurological disorder in the pediatric population which is defined as an increase in intracranial pressure (ICP) without the presence of brain parenchymal lesions, hydrocephalus, or central nervous system infection. In this study, we have determined the magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) findings in IIH patients.
METHODS: A comprehensive literature search was conducted using the electronic databases including Web of Sciences, Scopus, and Pubmed to identify suitable and relevant articles using keyword search methods. The search included keywords such as "idiopathic intracranial hypertension," "pseudotumor cerebri," "MRI," and "pediatrics." The search was limited to the available publications up to January 2024.
RESULTS: MRI plays a crucial role in diagnosing IIH by excluding secondary causes and revealing neuroimaging findings associated with elevated ICP. Despite fewer studies in children compared to adults, MRI serves as a cornerstone in identifying traditional neuroradiological markers such as empty sella turcica, posterior globe flattening, optic nerve tortuosity, optic nerve sheath distension, and transverse venous sinus stenosis. Additional subtle markers include increased Meckel's cave length, cerebellar tonsillar herniation, and slit-like ventricles, although these are less reliable. Diffusion-weighted imaging does not typically show cerebral ADC value changes indicative of cerebral edema in pediatric IIH.
CONCLUSION: MRI findings provide valuable non-invasive diagnostic indicators that facilitate early detection, clinical management, and potential surgical intervention in pediatric IIH. The reliability of these MRI markers underscores their importance in clinical practice.

Citation: Sheibani A, et al. A narrative review of magnetic resonance imaging findings in pediatric idiopathic intracranial hypertension. A narrative review of magnetic resonance imaging findings in pediatric idiopathic intracranial hypertension. 2024; 7:e70111. doi: 10.1002/hsr2.70111

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/39381534/
