PMID: 39384458
Title: The impact of colectomy and restorative procedure on pouch function after ileo-pouch-anal anastomosis in ulcerative colitis. The icon fun study on behalf of the Italian Society of Colon and Rectal Surgery (SICCR) Inflammatory Bowel Diseases committee.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Available guidelines lack in indications on surgical standard in Ulcerative Colitis (UC) AIMS: To determine the role of surgical strategies of colectomy and proctectomy with pouch-anal-anastomosis (IPAA) on functional outcomes in a nationwide population multicenter study. The secondary aims consisted of perioperative outcomes and complications.
METHODS: Data on 379 patients who underwent total abdominal colectomy and proctectomy with ileo-pouch-anal-anastomosis (IPAA) with or without diverting ileostomy were retrospectively collected in a red cap multicenter-database searching for variables that could impact on pouch outcomes as cuffitis, pouchitis, anastomotic stenosis, pouch stenosis, failure or pathological Low-Anterior-Resection-Syndrome (LARS) score.
RESULTS: Mesocolic dissection sealing vessels at major trunks and from medial to lateral are associated with better outcomes. Laparoscopy is associated with lower rate of cuffitis over time (p = 0.028). Mesentery lengthening is associated with higher pouchitis rate (p = 0.015) and earlier failure (p < 0.0001). Hand-sewn IPAA results in early anastomotic stenosis (p = 0.00011). The Transanal-Transection and Single-Stapling Anastomosis (TTSS) showed to be protective against pouchitis. Extended dissection of adhesions correlates with lower rate of pouchitis-episodes (p = 0.0057).
CONCLUSIONS: The study highlights advantages of laparoscopy. New techniques such as TTSS promise further improvements. Mesentery lengthening correlates with high risk of pouch-failure and pouchitis, hand-sewn anastomosis increased risk of stenosis.

Citation: Mineccia M, et al. The impact of colectomy and restorative procedure on pouch function after ileo-pouch-anal anastomosis in ulcerative colitis. The icon fun study on behalf of the Italian Society of Colon and Rectal Surgery (SICCR) Inflammatory Bowel Diseases committee. The impact of colectomy and restorative procedure on pouch function after ileo-pouch-anal anastomosis in ulcerative colitis. The icon fun study on behalf of the Italian Society of Colon and Rectal Surgery (SICCR) Inflammatory Bowel Diseases committee. 2024; (unknown volume):(unknown pages). doi: 10.1016/j.dld.2024.09.013

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/39384458/
