PMID: 39394514
Title: An elevated level of soluble suppression of tumorigenicity 2, but not galectin-3, is associated with the presence of coronary artery disease in hypertensive patients.

Abstract: We investigated whether there were associations between coronary artery disease (CAD) and soluble suppression of tumorigenicity (sST2) and galectin-3 levels at the time of coronary artery computed tomography angiography (CCTA) for CAD screening. The subjects consisted of 429 patients who underwent CCTA examination. CAD was diagnosed when there was 50% or more stenosis in the coronary artery. Patient backgrounds were collected and plasma levels of sST2 and galectin-3 were measured. The presence or absence of CAD and factors that contributed to CAD were analyzed for all patients and for those with or without hypertension (HTN). The CAD group had significantly higher sST2 levels than the non-CAD group, whereas there was no significant difference in galectin-3 levels. The number of patients in the non-HTN and HTN groups was 174 and 255, respectively. In the HTN group, the CAD group was significantly older than the non-CAD group and had higher sST2 levels. Multivariate analysis showed that the factors that contributed to CAD in the HTN group were age and sST2 levels. On the other hand, in the non-HTN group, the CAD group was significantly older than the non-CAD group, and had a higher proportion of males and higher sST2 levels, while the contributing factors for the CAD group were age and male gender, but not sST2. In conclusion, a higher level of sST2, but not galectin-3, was a contributing factor for CAD in HTN patients. However, in non-HTN patients, a high level of sST2 was not a contributing factor for CAD.

Citation: Miura-Takahashi E, et al. An elevated level of soluble suppression of tumorigenicity 2, but not galectin-3, is associated with the presence of coronary artery disease in hypertensive patients. An elevated level of soluble suppression of tumorigenicity 2, but not galectin-3, is associated with the presence of coronary artery disease in hypertensive patients. 2024; (unknown volume):(unknown pages). doi: 10.1038/s41440-024-01934-x

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/39394514/
