PMID: 39399429
Title: Increased CD14+HLA-DR-/low myeloid-derived suppressor cells can be regarded as a biomarker on disease severity and response to therapy in acute coronary syndrome.

Abstract: PURPOSE: This study aimed to investigate the dynamic changes in monocytic myeloid-derived suppressor cells (M-MDSCs) and their implications in the pathogenesis of acute coronary syndrome (ACS), shedding light on potential therapeutic targets.
EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN: Peripheral blood samples were collected from 68 ACS patients, 35 stable angina pectoris (SAP) patients, and 30 healthy controls (HC). Multi-parameter flow cytometry was employed for analysis of M-MDSCs, explored with disease characteristics and progression.
RESULTS: ACS patients exhibited an increased frequency of circulating M-MDSCs compared to SAP patients and HC. M-MDSCs levels demonstrated associations with ACS type, coronary artery lesions, multi-vessel disease, and cardiac dysfunction severity. Higher M-MDSCs levels were found in obese patients. Notably, therapy led to a significant decrease in M-MDSCs frequency. Furthermore, ACS patients exhibited elevated levels of interleukin (IL)-6, IL-10, granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor (GM-CSF), and tumor necrosis factor-α (TNF-α) in the cytokine profile associated with M-MDSCs. Increased expression of arginase-1(Arg-1) was observed in ACS patients, with positive correlations between M-MDSCs levels and IL-6, GM-CSF, and Arg-1 expression. The diagnostic performance of triglycerides (TG), high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL-C), and M-MDSCs levels varied in predicting the severity of coronary artery stenosis, with TG showing higher specificity, HDL-C displaying higher sensitivity, and M-MDSCs levels demonstrating balanced sensitivity and specificity.
CONCLUSIONS: Assessment of M-MDSCs frequency holds promise as a predictive marker for disease progression and therapy response of coronary artery stenosis. The elevated presence of M-MDSCs suggests their potential role in modulating ACS-related inflammation.

Citation: Tan Y, et al. Increased CD14+HLA-DR-/low myeloid-derived suppressor cells can be regarded as a biomarker on disease severity and response to therapy in acute coronary syndrome. Increased CD14+HLA-DR-/low myeloid-derived suppressor cells can be regarded as a biomarker on disease severity and response to therapy in acute coronary syndrome. 2024; 12:e18154. doi: 10.7717/peerj.18154

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/39399429/
