PMID: 39391299
Title: A systematic review evaluating the association of atherosclerosis and lumbar degenerative disc disease.

Abstract: INTRODUCTION: Lumbar disc herniation (LDH) and disc degeneration (DD) are associated with low back pain (LBP) and sciatica, which are common health problems. Emerging evidence suggests a link between vascular health, specifically abdominal aortic calcification (AAC) and systemic lipid profiles, and these spinal conditions.
RESEARCH QUESTION: This study investigates the associations between AAC, systemic lipid profiles, lumbar Modic Changes (MC), DD/LDH, and the occurrence of LBP or sciatica.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: A literature search was performed (up to August 2023) in PubMed, Embase, Web of Science, Emcare, Cochrane Library, and Academic Search Premier utilizing a sensitive search strategy. Studies were chosen based on predefined criteria and assessed for bias using an adapted Cochrane checklist. Specifically, studies exploring the relationship between AAC or lipid status and DD/LDH and/or LBP/Sciatica were included.
RESULTS: Twenty-seven studies were included. Eight studies assessed the association between atherosclerosis or lipid status and clinical LBP/sciatica, with four showing a positive association between AAC/lumbar artery stenosis and these conditions. Twenty-one studies assessed atherosclerosis and DD/LDH, with seven showing a positive association between AAC and DD/LDH. Eight trials found a positive association between lipid status and DD/LDH, and two trails identified ApoL1 as a biomarker for LDH recovery.
DISCUSSION AND CONCLUSION: Evidence supports the hypothesis that inadequate blood supply contributes to disc degeneration, inflammation and clinical symptoms. Both local vascular issues and systemic lipid profiles appear to influence lumbar degeneration, highlighting the need for further research to better understand these relationships and develop preventive and therapeutic strategies.

Citation: Li W, et al. A systematic review evaluating the association of atherosclerosis and lumbar degenerative disc disease. A systematic review evaluating the association of atherosclerosis and lumbar degenerative disc disease. 2024; 4:103901. doi: 10.1016/j.bas.2024.103901

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/39391299/
