PMID: 39395599
Title: The novel balloon-expandable Myval transcatheter heart valve: systematic review of aortic, mitral, tricuspid and pulmonary indications.

Abstract: INTRODUCTION AND OBJECTIVES: Myval technology represents the first balloon-expandable alternative since the Edwards system became commercially available. Despite certain controversies, its use has rapidly expanded. We aimed to gather all the available literature regarding its indications and outcomes.
METHODS: A comprehensive search of articles published between December 2016 and May 2024 was conducted using BioMedCentral, Google Scholar, and PubMed to evaluate the main outcomes of Myval for native aortic stenosis (AS) (meta-analysis) and off-label uses (systematic review).
RESULTS: A total of 151 studies were identified, and 74 were included in the analysis, covering aortic (n=51), mitral (n=9), tricuspid (n=6), and pulmonary (n=8) valve positions. A meta-analysis of studies on native AS demonstrated that Myval is safe and effective, with a 30-day mortality rate of 1.3%, good hemodynamic performance, low rates of pacemaker implantation (8.8%), and ≥ moderate paravalvular regurgitation (1.3%). Compared with other contemporary devices, Myval was competitive and associated with lower rates of pacemaker implantation. In a systematic review of off-label indications, Myval was also found to be safe and effective. In bicuspid AS, pure regurgitation, and aortic valve-in-valve procedures, success rates were 100%, 92%, and 100%, respectively, with pacemaker rates of 9.9%, 22.2%, and 3%, respectively. For mitral valve-in-valve/in-ring procedures, the success rate was 96.9%, while in tricuspid and pulmonary positions, small case series reported 100% success rates for both, with minimal procedural complications.
CONCLUSIONS: Myval technology is safe and effective for the treatment of native valvular disease and dysfunctional prostheses or rings in all heart valve positions, although larger scale studies are warranted.

Citation: García-Gómez M, et al. The novel balloon-expandable Myval transcatheter heart valve: systematic review of aortic, mitral, tricuspid and pulmonary indications. The novel balloon-expandable Myval transcatheter heart valve: systematic review of aortic, mitral, tricuspid and pulmonary indications. 2024; (unknown volume):(unknown pages). doi: 10.1016/j.rec.2024.09.006

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/39395599/
