PMID: 39398680
Title: Unmasking Rheumatic Heart Disease Decades Later in a Patient With a Remote History of Rheumatic Fever Despite Prolonged Antibiotic Prophylaxis.

Abstract: Rheumatic heart disease (RHD) is one of the leading causes of valvular heart disease worldwide and still persists in the USA, particularly among vulnerable populations with limited healthcare. Depending on the risk, severity, and types of valve involvement, treatment includes guideline-directed medical therapy (GDMT) and surgical interventions like valve repair or replacement. Here, we present a unique case of a patient in his late fifties who presented with worsening heart failure symptoms and several heart murmurs. A transthoracic echocardiogram (TTE) revealed moderate to severe mitral regurgitation (MR), aortic regurgitation (AR), and mild aortic stenosis (AS) with a bicuspid aortic valve. However, coronary angiography and right heart catheterization showed no blockages, right ventricular dysfunction, or pulmonary hypertension. Furthermore, no valvular vegetation was noticed on the transesophageal echocardiogram. The patient had a history of acute rheumatic fever (RF) in adolescence and was treated until age 21. Despite potential alternative causes like myocardial infarction or endocarditis, the lack of ischemic findings, negative blood cultures, and absence of valvular vegetation suggested that RHD was the possible cause of his valvular issues. This case highlights the rare occurrence of RHD impacting multiple valves despite proper antibiotic prophylaxis and draws attention to the importance of considering RHD when diagnosing multiple valvular problems, as many patients are identified too late for surgical intervention.

Citation: Hayee S, et al. Unmasking Rheumatic Heart Disease Decades Later in a Patient With a Remote History of Rheumatic Fever Despite Prolonged Antibiotic Prophylaxis. Unmasking Rheumatic Heart Disease Decades Later in a Patient With a Remote History of Rheumatic Fever Despite Prolonged Antibiotic Prophylaxis. 2024; 16:e69367. doi: 10.7759/cureus.69367

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/39398680/
