PMID: 39403092
Title: A novel case of simultaneous tracheal stenting and endobronchial valve (EBV) deployment for tracheal stenosis and persistent air leak guided by an endobronchial collateral ventilation assessment system and digital chest drain in malignant esophageal carcinoma.

Abstract: Persistent air leak may complicate malignant disease of the thorax, causing significant morbidity and mortality. A 51-year-old male with a 30-pack-year history of smoking was diagnosed with metastatic esophageal carcinoma with invasion into the right upper lobe of the lung. He developed a large right hydropneumothorax complicated by empyema leading to persistent air leak despite the insertion of two chest drains. Computed Tomography imaging with 3-dimensional reconstruction showed severe tracheal compression from the enlarging esophageal tumour as well as bronchopleural fistulas in the right upper lobe. Rigid bronchoscopy with metallic tracheal stenting was performed. This was followed by localization and quantification of air leak with an endobronchial collateral ventilation assessment system and a digital chest drain to guide endobronchial valve placement, in a single operative procedure. This novel combination of interventional bronchoscopy techniques enabled successful transition to an ambulatory chest drain and subsequent hospital discharge.

Citation: Gan EM and Leong CK. A novel case of simultaneous tracheal stenting and endobronchial valve (EBV) deployment for tracheal stenosis and persistent air leak guided by an endobronchial collateral ventilation assessment system and digital chest drain in malignant esophageal carcinoma. A novel case of simultaneous tracheal stenting and endobronchial valve (EBV) deployment for tracheal stenosis and persistent air leak guided by an endobronchial collateral ventilation assessment system and digital chest drain in malignant esophageal carcinoma. 2024; 12:e70041. doi: 10.1002/rcr2.70041

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/39403092/
