PMID: 39402005
Title: Quality of Life Effects of Renal Artery Stenting Versus Medical Therapy for Atherosclerotic Renal-Artery Stenosis: Results from the Randomized CORAL Trial.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Renal-artery stenosis can be associated with difficult to control hypertension, although renal-artery stenting has not been shown to improve clinical outcomes. Alternative antihypertensive medications could potentially result in quality of life benefits with renal-artery stenting.
METHODS: We performed a pre-specified quality of life sub-study of the CORAL trial-multicenter, randomized, open-label trial of renal-artery stenting versus medical therapy in patients with atherosclerotic renal-artery stenosis. Longitudinal growth curve models were used to compare the Physical Symptoms Distress Index (PSDI), SF-36, and EQ-5D scores over time between treatment groups. We also sought to validate the approach of assessing quality of life in hypertension studies.
RESULTS: Among 906 patients (mean age 69.2 ± 9.1years, 49.7% men), symptom frequency and distress due to side effects from antihypertensive medications changed minimally over time, with no significant differences between treatment groups. There were also no clinically significant differences between treatment groups for the SF-36 and its subscales or the EQ-5D. In internal validation of the quality of life measures, the PSDI correlated well with number/type of antihypertensive medications, and generic health status measures correlated with late clinical events.
CONCLUSIONS: In a large, multicenter, randomized clinical trial, we found no significant benefit of routine renal-artery stenting over medical management for the treatment of atherosclerotic renal-artery stenosis in terms of disease-specific or generic quality of life measures. As these quality of life measures are important to patients and are associated with medication compliance, future studies of antihypertensive treatments should consider including these quality of life measures as secondary outcomes. Trial registration: ClinicalTrials.gov: NCT00081731.

Citation: Arnold SV, et al. Quality of Life Effects of Renal Artery Stenting Versus Medical Therapy for Atherosclerotic Renal-Artery Stenosis: Results from the Randomized CORAL Trial. Quality of Life Effects of Renal Artery Stenting Versus Medical Therapy for Atherosclerotic Renal-Artery Stenosis: Results from the Randomized CORAL Trial. 2024; (unknown volume):(unknown pages). doi: 10.1093/ehjqcco/qcae087

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/39402005/
