PMID: 39407992
Title: Feasibility and Safety of Post-Transcatheter Aortic Valve Replacement Coronary Revascularization Guided by Stress Cardiac Imaging.

Abstract: Background: Systematic revascularization of asymptomatic coronary artery stenosis before transcatheter aortic valve replacement (TAVR) is controversial. Purpose: The purpose of this study was to evaluate the feasibility and safety of functional evaluation of coronary artery disease (CAD) followed by selective ischemia-guided percutaneous coronary revascularization following TAVR. Methods: This prospective, bi-centric, single-arm, open-label trial included all patients with severe aortic stenosis (AS) eligible for TAVR and with significant CAD defined as ≥1 coronary stenosis ≥ 70%. Patients with left main stenosis ≥ 50%, proximal left anterior descending artery (LAD) stenosis ≥ 90% or &gt; class 2 Canadian Classification Society (CCS) angina were excluded. Myocardial ischemia was evaluated by stress cardiac imaging one month after TAVR. The primary endpoint was a composite of all-cause death, stroke, major bleeding (Bleeding Academic Research Consotium ≥ 3), major vascular complication (Valve Academic Research Consortium 3 criteria), acute coronary syndrome (ACS) and hospitalization for cardiac causes within 6 months of receiving TAVR. Results: Between June 2020 and June 2022, 64 patients were included in this study. The mean age was 84 ± 5.2 years. CAD mostly involved LAD (n = 27, 42%) with frequent multivessel disease (n = 30, 47%) and calcified lesions (n = 39, 61%). Stress cardiac imaging could be achieved in 70% (n = 46) of the patients, while 30% (n = 18) did not attend the stress test. Significant myocardial ischemia was observed in only three patients (4.5%). At 6-month follow-up, fifteen patients (23%) reached the primary endpoint, including death in six patients (9%), stroke in three patients (5%) and major bleeding in three patients (5%). ACS was observed in only two patients (3%) but both had severe coronary stenosis (≥90%) and did not refer for stress imaging for personal reasons. Hospital readmission (n = 27, 41%) was mostly related to non-cardiac causes (n = 17, 27%). Conclusions: In patients with asymptomatic CAD scheduled to undergo TAVR, a selective ischemia-guided coronary revascularization after TAVR seems to be safe, with a very low rate of ACS and few cases of myocardial ischemia requiring revascularization, despite low adherence to medical follow-up in this elderly population. This strategy could be evaluated in a randomized study.

Citation: Leclercq F, et al. Feasibility and Safety of Post-Transcatheter Aortic Valve Replacement Coronary Revascularization Guided by Stress Cardiac Imaging. Feasibility and Safety of Post-Transcatheter Aortic Valve Replacement Coronary Revascularization Guided by Stress Cardiac Imaging. 2024; 13:(unknown pages). doi: 10.3390/jcm13195932

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/39407992/
