PMID: 39402889
Title: Impact of prior hospitalization for heart failure on clinical outcomes of patients after transcatheter aortic valve implantation with new-generation devices: Insights from the LAPLACE-TAVI registry.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: A history of hospitalization for heart failure (HHF) before transcatheter aortic valve implantation (TAVI) or surgical aortic valve replacement is associated with the prognosis of patients with severe aortic stenosis (AS). However, the impact of prior HHF on clinical outcomes after contemporary TAVI using new-generation transcatheter heart valves (THVs) has not been thoroughly investigated.
METHODS: Using data from the aLliAnce for exPloring cLinical prospects of AortiC valvE disease (LAPLACE)-TAVI registry, we investigated 2,752 patients who underwent TAVI with new-generation THVs with a median follow-up of 627 days. The primary outcomes were all-cause mortality and heart failure readmission after TAVI.
RESULTS: Patients with a history of HHF (n = 809) showed a higher 30-day mortality than patients without prior HHF (n = 1,943). A Kaplan-Meier analysis revealed that the prior HHF group showed a higher incidence of the primary outcome than the non-prior HHF group (27.4% vs. 16.4%, log-rank p = 0.001). In a Cox regression analysis, prior HHF was significantly associated with the risk of the primary outcome, even after adjusting for covariates (hazard ratio, 1.344; 95% confidence interval, 1.103-1.638; p = 0.003). A subanalysis showed that the prior HHF group with ejection fraction (EF) ≥ 50% had a higher risk of the primary outcome than the non-prior HHF group, whereas the prior HHF group with EF < 50% had the worst outcome.
CONCLUSION: A history of prior HHF is associated with worse outcomes in patients with severe AS, both in those with preserved EF and those with reduced EF, even after TAVI using new-generation devices.

Citation: Fukutomi M, et al. Impact of prior hospitalization for heart failure on clinical outcomes of patients after transcatheter aortic valve implantation with new-generation devices: Insights from the LAPLACE-TAVI registry. Impact of prior hospitalization for heart failure on clinical outcomes of patients after transcatheter aortic valve implantation with new-generation devices: Insights from the LAPLACE-TAVI registry. 2024; (unknown volume):(unknown pages). doi: 10.1002/ccd.31261

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/39402889/
