PMID: 39416314
Title: [Risk Factors associated with Central Vein Stenosis Development in Hemodialysis Vascular Access among Patients with Normal Preoperative Venography].

Abstract: PURPOSE: We aimed to discover risk factors for central vein stenosis (CVS) in hemodialysis patients with normal preoperative venography.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Among the 411 individuals who underwent upper arm venography for hemodialysis access evaluation in 2017, we reviewed venography and medical record data from 349 patients with normal preoperative venography who subsequently underwent arteriovenous fistula creation. We compared the data between patients with and without CVS development.
RESULTS: Among the 349 patients, 22 (6.3%) developed CVS during a median 20.9-month follow-up. The development of CVS appeared to be associated with preoperative venography findings (the presence of collateral vessels and cephalic arch stenosis), location of hemodialysis access, and history and duration of ipsilateral hemodialysis catheter placement (p &lt; 0.05). Multivariate analysis identified two or more collateral vessels on venography, left-sided arteriovenous fistula, and a previous history of ipsilateral hemodialysis catheter placement as independent risk factors for CVS development (p &lt; 0.05).
CONCLUSION: Even in patients with normal preoperative venography findings, there is an increased possibility of CVS development after arteriovenous fistula creation if they have more than two collateral vessels on venography, a left-sided arteriovenous fistula, or a history of ipsilateral hemodialysis catheter placement.

Citation: Oh SJ, et al. [Risk Factors associated with Central Vein Stenosis Development in Hemodialysis Vascular Access among Patients with Normal Preoperative Venography]. [Risk Factors associated with Central Vein Stenosis Development in Hemodialysis Vascular Access among Patients with Normal Preoperative Venography]. 2024; 85:916-925. doi: 10.3348/jksr.2023.0127

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/39416314/
