PMID: 39415495
Title: Ultrasound-Responsive Hydrogel Incorporated with TGF-β Mimetic Peptides for Endometrium Recovery to Restore Fertility.

Abstract: Unavoidable damage to the basal layer of the endometrium has a huge negative impact on a woman's reproductive health and menstrual cycle. However, it is difficult for medicine to penetrate a series of biological barriers toward the basal layer in the deeper area of the endometrium. To meet this challenge, we developed an ultrasound-responsive hydrogel incorporated with a transforming growth factor-beta (TGF-β) mimetic peptide to enhance pregnancy outcomes by restoring the function of a wounded endometrium due to its deep-tissue-penetration capability. In vitro studies revealed that the TGF-β-mimetic-peptide-loaded hydrogel could achieve 64.35% of cell migration under ultrasound stimulation even in phosphate-buffered saline of pH 6.0. Upon in situ sonication at the uterus, carboxymethyl chitosan can be released from degraded hydrogel to open tight junctions with reduced interstitial pressure by ultrasound to promote deep penetration. Rat studies revealed that the penetration capability of TGF-β-mimetic-peptide-loaded hydrogel with sonication was 1.6 times higher than that of the control group. Besides the rat uterine model, ex vivo human uterine tissue was also collected and imaged, demonstrating up to ∼700 μm of tissue penetration depth. In addition, compared to control groups, effective uterus recovery without intrauterine stenosis and endometrial cavity fluid was observed from rats with severe uterine injury treated by TGF-β-mimetic-peptide-loaded hydrogel. In addition, fertility restoration in the endometrial injury model was observed after treatment with such an ultrasound-responsive hydrogel incorporated with TGF-β mimetic peptides. Overall, this work provides an effective approach to treating endometrial injury for enhanced pregnancy outcomes.

Citation: Qin J, et al. Ultrasound-Responsive Hydrogel Incorporated with TGF-β Mimetic Peptides for Endometrium Recovery to Restore Fertility. Ultrasound-Responsive Hydrogel Incorporated with TGF-β Mimetic Peptides for Endometrium Recovery to Restore Fertility. 2024; 16:57963-57971. doi: 10.1021/acsami.4c07290

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/39415495/
