PMID: 39416625
Title: Efficacy of butylphthalide in the treatment of patients with stroke attributed to intracranial arterial stenosis.

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: To explore the clinical efficacy of butylphthalide in treating patients with stroke attributed to intracranial artery stenosis (ICAS).
METHODS: In this retrospective study, records of 163 patients with stroke attributed to ICAS admitted to Jiaxing Second Hospital from January 2021 to January 2023 were retrospectively analyzed. Patients were divided into two groups based on the treatment received: control group (patients received routine treatment, n=55) and observation group (patients treated with butylphthalide on a routine basis, n=58). Changes in levels of cerebrovascular reactivity (CVR), breath-holding index (BHI), pulsatility index (PI), and middle cerebral artery mean flow velocity (Vm) between the two groups before and after treatment were compared. In addition, cognitive function, neurological function, and living ability were compared between the two groups before and after treatment, as well as the overall clinical efficacy of the treatment.
RESULTS: The baseline data was comparable between the two groups (P&gt;0.05). After the treatment, CVR, BHI, and Vm indicators in the observation group were significantly higher than those in the control group, while the levels of PI indexes were significantly lower than those in the control group (P&lt;0.05). Montreal Cognitive Assessment (MoCA) and Barthel scale scores of the observation group were significantly higher compared to the control group, while the scores of National Institutes of Health Stroke Scale (NIHSS) were significantly lower (P&lt;0.05).
CONCLUSIONS: Butylphthalide in addition to routine treatment can effectively improve cerebrovascular reserve function, promote neurological and cognitive dysfunction recovery, and enhance daily living ability of patients with stroke caused by ICAS.

Citation: Lu X, et al. Efficacy of butylphthalide in the treatment of patients with stroke attributed to intracranial arterial stenosis. Efficacy of butylphthalide in the treatment of patients with stroke attributed to intracranial arterial stenosis. 2024; 40:1994-1999. doi: 10.12669/pjms.40.9.10100

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/39416625/
