PMID: 39421398
Title: Investigating Predictors of Decannulation Through Endoscopic Approach in Patients With Tracheostomy and Peristomal Subglottic Stenosis.

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: Peristomal subglottic stenosis (SGS) is a common sequela after tracheostomy, with severe cases precluding decannulation. Predictors of decannulation success in these patients following endoscopic intervention are not well studied. The aim of this study is to investigate predictors of successful decannulation and inform treatment decisions.
STUDY DESIGN: This study is a retrospective case series of 22 adult patients presenting to the senior author with a tracheostomy and peristomal SGS precluding decannulation between 2018 and 2023.
SETTING: Department of Otolaryngology-Head & Neck Surgery, University of Arizona College of Medicine-Tucson.
METHODS: Patient demographics, relevant clinical factors, stenosis characteristics, and the number of endoscopic procedures performed were analyzed to identify predictors of successful decannulation. Endoscopic interventions were generally performed 3 months apart with CO<sub>2</sub> laser debridement, balloon dilation, and intralesional injection of steroid, all done with a laser-safe endotracheal tube in place through the stoma.
RESULTS: Out of the 22 patients in the study, 9 (40.9%) achieved decannulation, all through an endoscopic approach. Body mass index (BMI) and age were identified as significant negative predictors of decannulation success (P = .02; P = .05, respectively). Stenosis characteristics, such as the presence of tracheomalacia, excessive dynamic airway collapse, multilevel stenosis, posterior glottic stenosis, and anterior granulation tissue shelf did not significantly impact decannulation success.
CONCLUSION: A 40.9% decannulation rate was achieved in our cohort. BMI and age were identified as negative predictors of decannulation success. Stenosis characteristics did not significantly affect decannulation outcomes. Further investigation is warranted to establish reliable predictors of decannulation.

Citation: Wehbi N, et al. Investigating Predictors of Decannulation Through Endoscopic Approach in Patients With Tracheostomy and Peristomal Subglottic Stenosis. Investigating Predictors of Decannulation Through Endoscopic Approach in Patients With Tracheostomy and Peristomal Subglottic Stenosis. 2024; 8:e70033. doi: 10.1002/oto2.70033

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/39421398/
