PMID: 39427138
Title: Clinical characteristics of HIV-associated tracheobronchial Talaromyces marneffei infection in seven patients in Guangxi, China.

Abstract: OBJECTIVES: Tracheobronchial Talaromyces marneffei (T. marneffei) infections among HIV-infected patients are rare. To improve understanding, we analyzed the clinical features, immune mechanisms, treatment, and prognosis of these patients.
METHODS: We collected clinical information from HIV-positive patients with talaromycosis admitted to the Fourth People's Hospital of Nanning from January 2015 to June 2022. Patients who presented with culture and/or histopathological proof of tracheobronchial T. marneffei infection were included.
RESULTS: A total of 108 patients with respiratory infections who underwent bronchoscopy were enrolled. Seven patients with tracheobronchial T. marneffei infection, all of whom were men with a median age of 48 years (range 39-50 years), were analyzed. Cough, sputum, fever, and weight loss were the most common symptoms. The total white blood cell count was normal or decreased, and all lymphocyte counts were decreased. All patients had reduced CD4+ T-cell counts, with values less than 50 cells/µL. The chest CT imaging signs included patchy signals or large areas of exudation, bronchial stenosis and occlusion. This was different from the lack of bronchial involvement. Endoscopically, the trachea and bronchial mucosa showed congestion, edema, surface attachment, nodules, lumen stenosis, obstruction, etc. T. marneffei spores were found via bronchial mucosal pathology in all 7 patients. Five patients were initially treated with intravenous infusion of amphotericin B for 2 weeks, followed by oral itraconazole capsules (200 mg) twice daily, and two patients were initially treated with itraconazole. Six patients were remission, and 1 died.
CONCLUSIONS: The clinical features of trachea invasion and nontracheal invasion are not unique, but chest CT reveals manifestations such as masses, solid shadows, and bronchial stenosis/obstruction. Bronchoscopy should be performed if possible, and the presence or absence of trachea T. marneffei infection should be confirmed. Antiviral therapy combined with antifungal therapy can improve patient prognosis.

Citation: Pan M, et al. Clinical characteristics of HIV-associated tracheobronchial Talaromyces marneffei infection in seven patients in Guangxi, China. Clinical characteristics of HIV-associated tracheobronchial Talaromyces marneffei infection in seven patients in Guangxi, China. 2024; 24:1182. doi: 10.1186/s12879-024-10046-3

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/39427138/
