PMID: 39423426
Title: The impact of smoking on patient-reported outcomes following lumbar decompression: an analysis of the Quality Outcomes Database.

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: Smoking has been shown to negatively impact spinal health, as well as the outcomes of spinal fusion. Published reports show conflicting data regarding whether smoking negatively impacts patient outcomes following lumbar decompression. The objective of this study was to investigate whether smoking affects the outcomes of patients undergoing lumbar decompression for spinal stenosis or herniated disc.
METHODS: The Quality Outcomes Database was queried for patients with spinal stenosis or lumbar disc herniation who underwent one- or two-level lumbar decompression without fusion. All patients had preoperative and 12-month outcome measures and were divided into groups of nonsmokers and current smokers. Outcomes were compared between the two groups, as well as the percentage of patients reaching the minimal clinically important difference (MCID) threshold for numeric rating scale (NRS) back and leg pain scores and the Oswestry Disability Index (ODI).
RESULTS: Of 17,271 patients, 14,233 were nonsmokers and 3038 were current smokers. Smokers had worse baseline NRS back and leg pain, ODI, and EQ-5D scores and experienced slightly less improvement in all measures following lumbar decompression (p ≤ 0.009), although changes were largely similar, and a high percentage of patients achieved the MCID thresholds for NRS back pain (78% nonsmokers vs 75% smokers), NRS leg pain (79% nonsmokers vs 73% smokers), and ODI (74% nonsmokers vs 68% smokers). Comparison of propensity-matched cohorts did not identify any difference in outcomes in smokers versus nonsmokers.
CONCLUSIONS: In patients undergoing lumbar decompression for spinal stenosis or herniated disc, smokers demonstrated slightly less improvement in outcomes compared with nonsmokers, and a high proportion of both groups achieved meaningful improvement with surgery. While smoking cessation should be strongly encouraged in all patients, lumbar decompression procedures for spinal stenosis and herniated disc should not be denied to smokers.

Citation: Djurasovic M, et al. The impact of smoking on patient-reported outcomes following lumbar decompression: an analysis of the Quality Outcomes Database. The impact of smoking on patient-reported outcomes following lumbar decompression: an analysis of the Quality Outcomes Database. 2024; (unknown volume):1-6. doi: 10.3171/2024.7.SPINE24138

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/39423426/
