PMID: 39425511
Title: The Benefits of Silicone Laryngectomy Tubes at the Time of Laryngectomy-A Case Series Spanning 17 Years.

Abstract: OBJECTIVES: Although total laryngectomy (TL) is a well-established surgical procedure with clear functional or oncologic indications, the peri- and postoperative care for those undergoing TL is variable, particularly regarding postlaryngectomy tracheostoma management. This study examined TL outcomes from a single institution with the immediate perioperative use of soft silicone laryngectomy tubes. More specifically, we explored potential complications associated with immediate perioperative use of a flexible laryngectomy tube (LaryTube and StomaSoft) and the use of heat and moisture exchange (HME) devices in association with peri- and postoperative care.
METHODS: A case series including all patients undergoing TL by one primary surgeon at a tertiary care hospital between 2006 and 2023 were assessed. Variables of interest included hospital average length of stay (LOS) in hospital, use of laryngectomy tube and an HME, primary tracheoesophageal puncture voice restoration at time of TL, discharge feeding, stoma-related complications, and overall complications.
RESULTS: Seventy-two patients were included over the study period, and all utilized a laryngectomy tube and HME in the perioperative period without complications. Fifty-six patients (77.7%) had concurrent neck dissections and nine (15%) underwent total laryngopharyngectomy. Sixty-two patients (86%) underwent TL for squamous cell carcinoma of the larynx or hypopharynx and 35 of these (56%) were salvage surgeries. Mean LOS was 8.4 (3-45) days, and 63 patients (88%) were discharged with nasal gastric tube feeding. Of the six patients (8%) who were readmitted for complications, zero (0%) were related to the laryngectomy tube or to stoma-related complications (e.g., dehiscence, infection, mucous plugging). No patient who utilized a laryngectomy tube and HME device in the perioperative period experienced stomal stenosis.
CONCLUSIONS: Laryngectomy tubes combined with an HME can be employed safely and successfully in a high percentage of laryngectomy patients placed perioperative. No instances of postlaryngectomy tracheostoma stenosis occurred in association with perioperative laryngectomy tube with HME use. These collective data support the use of a laryngectomy tube with HME in the immediate perioperative period, with low risk of complications.

Citation: Kearney A, et al. The Benefits of Silicone Laryngectomy Tubes at the Time of Laryngectomy-A Case Series Spanning 17 Years. The Benefits of Silicone Laryngectomy Tubes at the Time of Laryngectomy-A Case Series Spanning 17 Years. 2024; (unknown volume):(unknown pages). doi: 10.1002/hed.27967

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/39425511/
