PMID: 39434360
Title: The Effects of Nicotine on Re-endothelialization, Inflammation, and Neoatherosclerosis After Drug-Eluting Stent Implantation in a Porcine Model.

Abstract: BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES: Cigarette smoking is a major risk factor for atherosclerosis. Nicotine, a crucial constituent of tobacco, contributes to atherosclerosis development and progression. However, evidence of the association between nicotine and neointima formation is limited. We aimed to evaluate whether nicotine enhances neointimal hyperplasia in the native epicardial coronary arteries of pigs after percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) with drug-eluting stents (DES).
METHODS: After coronary angiography (CAG) and quantitative coronary angiography (QCA), we implanted 20 DES into 20 pigs allocated to 2 groups: no-nicotine (n=10) and nicotine (n=10) groups. Post-PCI CAG and QCA were performed immediately. Follow-up CAG, QCA, optical coherence tomography (OCT), and histopathological analyses were performed 2 months post-PCI.
RESULTS: Despite intergroup similarities in the baseline QCA findings, OCT analysis showed that the nicotine group had a smaller mean stent and lumen areas, a larger mean neointimal area, greater percent area stenosis, and higher peri-strut fibrin and inflammation scores than the no-nicotine group. In immunofluorescence analysis, the nicotine group displayed higher expression of CD68 and α-smooth muscle actin but lower CD31 expression than the no-nicotine group.
CONCLUSIONS: Nicotine inhibited re-endothelialization and promoted inflammation and NIH after PCI with DES in a porcine model.

Citation: Oh S, et al. The Effects of Nicotine on Re-endothelialization, Inflammation, and Neoatherosclerosis After Drug-Eluting Stent Implantation in a Porcine Model. The Effects of Nicotine on Re-endothelialization, Inflammation, and Neoatherosclerosis After Drug-Eluting Stent Implantation in a Porcine Model. 2024; (unknown volume):(unknown pages). doi: 10.4070/kcj.2024.0171

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/39434360/
