PMID: 39433252
Title: Effect of Facet Joint Resection on Postoperative Radiographic and Clinical Outcomes After Microendoscopic Laminectomy for Single-Level Lumbar Spinal Stenosis.

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: Facet joint destruction causes postoperative spinal instability, resulting in poor clinical outcomes after lumbar decompression surgery. However, the effect of facet joint destruction on radiographic and clinical outcomes after microendoscopic laminectomy (MEL) is unknown. Therefore, the current study aimed to examine the effect of facet joint resection on radiographic and clinical outcomes after single-level MEL surgery.
METHODS: This study included 116 patients with lumbar spinal canal stenosis (LSCS) who underwent single-level (L4/5) MEL surgery. Eligible patients were divided into the following groups: group P (facet joint preservation rate = 100%) (n = 70); group PR (50% ≤ the facet joint preservation rate <100%) (n = 27); and group R (the facet joint preservation rate <50%) (n = 19). The demographic characteristics of the patients, surgical data, preoperative and 1-year postoperative radiographic measurements, and clinical outcomes were compared among the 3 groups. Moreover, preoperative and postoperative radiographic and clinical outcomes were compared after adjusting the demographic characteristics of the patients and surgical data by the inverse probability weighting method with propensity scores.
RESULTS: The 3 unweighted groups did not significantly differ in terms of demographic characteristics, surgical data, and preoperative and postoperative radiographic and clinical outcomes. Even after adjusting for the demographic characteristics and surgical data, the preoperative and postoperative radiographic and clinical outcomes were comparable among the 3 weighted groups.
CONCLUSIONS: The extent of facet joint resection might have a minimal impact on radiographic and clinical outcomes at 1 year after single-level MEL surgery.

Citation: Doi T, et al. Effect of Facet Joint Resection on Postoperative Radiographic and Clinical Outcomes After Microendoscopic Laminectomy for Single-Level Lumbar Spinal Stenosis. Effect of Facet Joint Resection on Postoperative Radiographic and Clinical Outcomes After Microendoscopic Laminectomy for Single-Level Lumbar Spinal Stenosis. 2024; (unknown volume):(unknown pages). doi: 10.1016/j.wneu.2024.10.052

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/39433252/
