PMID: 39435175
Title: Stent Retriever Angioplasty for Intracranial Atherosclerotic Disease-Related Medium Vessel Occlusion: A Case Report and Literature Review.

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: Stent retriever (SR) angioplasty is an adjunctive technique for acute large vessel occlusion stroke due to underlying intracranial atherosclerotic disease (ICAD-LVO). Prolonged SR deployment maintains blood flow distal to the atherosclerotic lesion until the antiplatelet agent has exerted its effect. Although SR angioplasty for ICAD-LVO has been reported, few reports are available on SR angioplasty for medium vessel occlusion stroke due to underlying ICAD (ICAD-MeVO). Here, we describe a case of SR angioplasty for acute occlusion of the left M2 segment of the middle cerebral artery (MCA) due to underlying ICAD.
CASE PRESENTATION: A 79-year-old man with a history of left MCA M2 segment stenosis presented with motor aphasia and dysarthria. Diffusion-weighted MRI showed no high-signal intensity areas, and MRA showed occlusion of the left MCA M2 segment. The patient was diagnosed with ICAD-MeVO. After performing an MRI, the patient's symptoms progressed to total aphasia. SR angioplasty was performed for the occlusion of the left M2 segment of the MCA. Diffusion-weighted MRI the day after the procedure showed a small area of high-signal intensity exclusively in the left putamen, while MRA confirmed recanalization of the left MCA M2 segment. Aphasia improved after the procedure. No re-occlusion was observed for 90 days, and the modified Rankin Scale score at 90 days was 2.
CONCLUSION: SR angioplasty appears to be a safe option for managing MCA M2 segment occlusion.

Citation: Inui R, et al. Stent Retriever Angioplasty for Intracranial Atherosclerotic Disease-Related Medium Vessel Occlusion: A Case Report and Literature Review. Stent Retriever Angioplasty for Intracranial Atherosclerotic Disease-Related Medium Vessel Occlusion: A Case Report and Literature Review. 2024; 18:273-277. doi: 10.5797/jnet.cr.2024-0053

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/39435175/
