PMID: 39448299
Title: Total extra-peritoneal approach to radical cystectomy with ureterostomy: A novel technique for the elderly and frail.

Abstract: OBJECTIVES: Radical cystectomy with urinary diversion is the gold standard treatment for bladder cancer (high-risk/muscle invasive). The transperitoneal approach is associated with significant gastrointestinal complications like ileus. In the elderly and frail with a single functional kidney, we describe an extraperitoneal technique of radical cystectomy, with a ureterostomy, to be performed without general anesthesia.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: The elderly, frail, and high-risk candidates for general anesthesia, with a prior history of nephroureterectomy with a second primary muscle-invasive bladder cancer, were chosen. All patients underwent the described procedure under combined spinal and epidural anesthesia. The posterior dissection was retrograde, caudal to cranial, with the peritoneum being opened only for resection of the dome. A cutaneous ureterostomy was fashioned on the side of the functional kidney. Peri-operative parameters were assessed for early recovery in this high-risk group.
RESULTS: The mean age was 82 years (range: 73-91), with Charleson Comorbidity Index 5, and were all deemed unfit for neoadjuvant chemotherapy. With a median duration of 127.5 minutes, an average blood loss of 225ml, and no patient requiring general anesthesia; early ambulation, early return of bowel function, and a lesser hospital stay (7 days) with minimal morbidity were achieved. Negative surgical margins were achieved in all cases, with a mean harvest of 29 lymph nodes. Only 1 patient developed stomal stenosis. The cause-specific survival (CSS) is 100% at 2 years.
CONCLUSIONS: The highlighting features are the early return of bowel function (flatus passage on day 1) and the avoidance of the cardio-pulmonary complications of general anesthesia. The extraperitoneal cystectomy offers a promising alternative in this select group and warrants further studies to extrapolate this technique for bilateral urinary drainage.

Citation: Murali A, et al. Total extra-peritoneal approach to radical cystectomy with ureterostomy: A novel technique for the elderly and frail. Total extra-peritoneal approach to radical cystectomy with ureterostomy: A novel technique for the elderly and frail. 2024; (unknown volume):(unknown pages). doi: 10.1016/j.urolonc.2024.10.008

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/39448299/
