PMID: 39442857
Title: Theta-burst transcranial magnetic stimulation attenuates chronic ischemic demyelination and vascular cognitive impairment in mice.

Abstract: Vascular cognitive impairment and dementia (VCID) is mainly caused by chronic cerebral hypoperfusion and subsequent white matter lesions. Noninvasive transcranial magnetic stimulation has been utilized in treating various neurological disorders. However, the function of theta-burst transcranial magnetic stimulation on VCID remains to be defined. We utilized 4-week bilateral carotid artery stenosis model of male mice to mimic VCID. Intermittent theta-burst stimulation (iTBS) or consecutive theta-burst stimulation (cTBS) was administered for 14 consecutive days. Through luxol fast blue staining, electron microscopy and immunofluorescence, we found that iTBS, not cTBS, significantly improved demyelination, axonal damage and β-amyloid deposition, without affecting cerebral blood flow in VCID mice. At cellular levels, iTBS rescued the loss of mature oligodendrocytes, promoted precursor cell differentiation, and inhibited pro-inflammatory activation of astrocytes and microglia. Notably, iTBS attenuated cognitive deterioration in both short-term retention and long-term spatial memory of VCID mice as indicated by serial neurobehavioral tests. To explore the molecular involvement of iTBS, mRNA sequencing was carried out. By real-time PCR and combined RNA fluorescence in situ hybridization with immunofluorescence, iTBS was confirmed to increase Rxrg expression specifically in mature oligodendrocytes. Collectively, iTBS could ameliorate vascular cognitive dysfunction, probably via mitigating white matter lesions and neuroinflammation in the corpus callosum. Rxrg signaling in mature oligodendrocytes, which was increased by iTBS, might be a potential target for VCID treatment.

Citation: Wang D, et al. Theta-burst transcranial magnetic stimulation attenuates chronic ischemic demyelination and vascular cognitive impairment in mice. Theta-burst transcranial magnetic stimulation attenuates chronic ischemic demyelination and vascular cognitive impairment in mice. 2024; 383:115022. doi: 10.1016/j.expneurol.2024.115022

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/39442857/
