PMID: 39446197
Title: An innovative surgical approach for solid pseudopapillary neoplasm with duodenal invasion in a pediatric patient: a case report.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Pediatric pancreatic tumors, especially with duodenal invasion, are exceptionally rare and a strategy for their treatment has not been established. A pancreaticoduodenectomy is often the desired treatment, but may be over-invasive for solid pseudopapillary neoplasm (SPN). This study reports an innovative surgical approach for SPN with duodenal invasion using pancreatic enucleation and endoscopically guided partial duodenectomy.
CASE PRESENTATION: An 11-year-old girl complained of malaise and presented with severe anemia; imaging revealed a tumor of undetermined origin, involving the pancreatic head and descending duodenum. Intraoperative findings showed tumor adherence to the pancreatic head and endoscopy revealed invasion of the duodenum. The tumor was enucleated from the pancreatic head, and partial duodenectomy was performed under endoscopically guided direct visualization. Pathology confirmed SPN with duodenal invasion, and no residual tumor. Although a Grade B pancreatic fistula occurred postoperatively, it was managed conservatively. At the 15-month follow-up, no signs of tumor recurrence, duodenal stenosis, or pancreatic dysfunction were evident.
CONCLUSIONS: Given the good prognosis of SPN, we believe that enucleation from the pancreatic head combined with an endoscopically guided partial duodenectomy could be a useful and less invasive alternative to pancreaticoduodenectomy for cases with duodenal invasion.

Citation: Tsuzuki Y, et al. An innovative surgical approach for solid pseudopapillary neoplasm with duodenal invasion in a pediatric patient: a case report. An innovative surgical approach for solid pseudopapillary neoplasm with duodenal invasion in a pediatric patient: a case report. 2024; 10:243. doi: 10.1186/s40792-024-02047-w

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/39446197/
