PMID: 39443926
Title: Copper hydrogen phosphate nanosheets functionalized hydrogel with tissue adhesive, antibacterial, and angiogenic capabilities for tracheal mucosal regeneration.

Abstract: Timely and effective interventions after tracheal mucosal injury are lack in clinical practices, which elevate the risks of airway infection, tracheal cartilage deterioration, and even asphyxiated death. Herein, we proposed a biomaterial-based strategy for the repair of injured tracheal mucosal based on a copper hydrogen phosphate nanosheets (CuHP NSs) functionalized commercial hydrogel (polyethylene glycol disuccinimidyl succinate-human serum albumin, PH). Such CuHP/PH hydrogel achieved favorable injectability, stable gelation, and excellent adhesiveness within the tracheal lumen. Moreover, CuHP NSs within the CuHP/PH hydrogel effectively stimulate the proliferation and migration of endothelial/epithelial cells, enhancing angiogenesis and demonstrating excellent tissue regenerative potential. Additionally, it exhibited significant inhibitory effects on both bacteria and bacterial biofilms. More importantly, when injected injured site of tracheal mucosa under fiberoptic bronchoscopy guidance, our results demonstrated CuHP/PH hydrogel adhered tightly to the tracheal mucosa. The therapeutic effects of the CuHP/PH hydrogel were further confirmed, which significantly improved survival rates, vascular and mucosal regeneration, reduced occurrences of intraluminal infections, tracheal stenosis, and cartilage damage complications. This research presents an initial proposition outlining a strategy employing biomaterials to mitigate tracheal mucosal injury, offering novel perspectives on the treatment of mucosal injuries and other tracheal diseases.

Citation: Wang P, et al. Copper hydrogen phosphate nanosheets functionalized hydrogel with tissue adhesive, antibacterial, and angiogenic capabilities for tracheal mucosal regeneration. Copper hydrogen phosphate nanosheets functionalized hydrogel with tissue adhesive, antibacterial, and angiogenic capabilities for tracheal mucosal regeneration. 2024; 22:652. doi: 10.1186/s12951-024-02920-8

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/39443926/
