PMID: 39443213
Title: Feasibility of Intraoperative 3-Dimensional Speckle-Tracking Echocardiography in Patients Undergoing Surgical Aortic Valve Replacement: A Prospective Observational Pilot Study.

Abstract: OBJECTIVES: To assess the feasibility of intraoperative 3-dimensional speckle-tracking-based myocardial deformation analysis for evaluation of twist, torsion, and strain using speckle tracking, and to investigate the immediate changes in these parameters after aortic valve replacement.
DESIGN: Prospective observational study SETTING: Single-center study at a tertiary academic cardiac center PARTICIPANTS: Forty-nine patients undergoing minimally invasive surgical aortic valve replacement INTERVENTIONS: Acquisition of full-volume images of the left ventricle after induction of anesthesia and at the end of surgery using transesophageal echocardiography (TEE), and analysis of the datasets using 3D speckle-tracking-based myocardial deformation analysis (Tomtec Arena).
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Of the 49 complete volume datasets, 30 (61%) had quality sufficient for speckle tracking. No significant differences were observed between the examinations in terms of ejection fraction (EF) (p = 0.177), global longitudinal strain (GLS) (p = 0.276), circumferential strain (CS) (p = 0.238), twist (p = 0.970), or torsion (p = 0.417).
CONCLUSIONS: 3D speckle-tracking-based myocardial deformation analysis from intraoperative TEE datasets is feasible in >60% of patients with aortic valve stenosis. There were no statistically significant differences in GLS, CS, twist, or torsion between the intraoperative examinations.

Citation: Vander Zwaag S, et al. Feasibility of Intraoperative 3-Dimensional Speckle-Tracking Echocardiography in Patients Undergoing Surgical Aortic Valve Replacement: A Prospective Observational Pilot Study. Feasibility of Intraoperative 3-Dimensional Speckle-Tracking Echocardiography in Patients Undergoing Surgical Aortic Valve Replacement: A Prospective Observational Pilot Study. 2024; (unknown volume):(unknown pages). doi: 10.1053/j.jvca.2024.09.146

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/39443213/
