PMID: 39446611
Title: Imaging of the Inferior Mesenteric Vasculature.

Abstract: The inferior mesenteric artery (IMA) and inferior mesenteric vein (IMV) supply and drain blood from the distal colon and rectum, respectively. Routinely imaged at cross-sectional imaging of the abdomen and pelvis, these vessels play a vital role in gastrointestinal tract health but may be neglected due to their diminutive caliber relative to other mesenteric vessels and potential lack of inclusion in routine search patterns. The authors describe and illustrate normal and abnormal appearances of the IMA and IMV and findings that are diagnostic of primary vascular abnormalities or can offer diagnostic clues. After the embryologic features, normal anatomy, and anatomic variants of the IMA and IMV are reviewed, various manifestations of IMA and IMV abnormalities, such as aneurysm and pseudoaneurysm, stenosis, occlusion, dissection, hemorrhage, arteriovenous malformations and fistulas, tumoral invasion, vasculitis, and perivascular lymphatic dilatation, are explored with use of case examples. The role of the IMA and IMV as collateral vasculature, including the clinical scenarios of superior mesenteric arterial occlusion, aortic endoleak, and portosystemic venous shunt, are discussed. Finally, diagnostic clues that the inferior mesenteric vessels and adjacent soft tissues can provide, including mesenteric venous gas, compression or displacement from bowel volvulus or internal hernias, lymphadenopathy, and venous flow artifacts, are highlighted. The authors provide a comprehensive reference for radiologists who evaluate the IMA and IMV on cross-sectional images and shine a spotlight on these neglected but important vessels. ©RSNA, 2024 Supplemental material is available for this article.

Citation: Shetty AS, et al. Imaging of the Inferior Mesenteric Vasculature. Imaging of the Inferior Mesenteric Vasculature. 2024; 44:e240047. doi: 10.1148/rg.240047

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/39446611/
