PMID: 39442864
Title: Effects of Mitral Calcification in Severe Aortic Stenosis with Severe Mitral Regurgitation on Left Heart Remodeling, Surgical Strategy, and Outcomes.

Abstract: OBJECTIVES: To localize and quantify mitral calcification associated with severe aortic stenosis and severe mitral regurgitation and determine its association with cardiac remodeling, operative management, and long-term survival.
METHODS: From July 1998 to July 2010, 158 patients with severe aortic stenosis, severe mitral regurgitation, and mitral calcification underwent surgical aortic valve replacement (SAVR, n=49) or SAVR plus mitral valve repair (SAVR+MVr, n=67) or replacement (SAVR+MVR, n=42). Mitral calcium was localized and quantified on preoperative computed tomography. Random forest methodology was used to correlate calcium volume with cardiac morphology and function. Median follow-up for survival was 4.1 years; 25% were followed ≥14 years.
RESULTS: Larger calcium volume was associated with degenerative mitral disease, higher ejection fraction, smaller left ventricular end-systolic volume, and SAVR+MVR (median calcium volume 3.4 cm3) versus SAVR (median calcium volume 1.0 cm3) or SAVR+MVr (median calcium volume 0.41 cm3). Ten-year mortality was higher in patients with more mitral calcification (terciles: 7.1% vs 16% vs 25%), subvalvular involvement (8.1% vs 18%), and SAVR+MVR (5.4% vs SAVR=13% vs SAVR+MVr=26%). Multivariable analysis demonstrated early postoperative mortality was strongly associated with subvalvular mitral calcification, but late mortality was not associated with calcium volume or location.
CONCLUSIONS: Larger mitral calcium volume is a marker of late-stage cardiac remodeling associated with more extensive mitral valve intervention, but it is not associated with long-term mortality. Quantitative analysis of mitral calcification with computed tomography can aid in patient selection and surgical management decisions in this complex patient population.

Citation: Snyder A, et al. Effects of Mitral Calcification in Severe Aortic Stenosis with Severe Mitral Regurgitation on Left Heart Remodeling, Surgical Strategy, and Outcomes. Effects of Mitral Calcification in Severe Aortic Stenosis with Severe Mitral Regurgitation on Left Heart Remodeling, Surgical Strategy, and Outcomes. 2024; (unknown volume):(unknown pages). doi: 10.1016/j.jtcvs.2024.10.022

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/39442864/
