PMID: 39444407
Title: ST-segment elevation in V1-4 in takotsubo cardiomyopathy with ventricular septal perforation: A case report and literature review.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Takotsubo cardiomyopathy (TCM) is a nonischemic cardiomyopathy characterized by chest pain, typically manifesting transient left ventricular (LV) apical akinesis, and ischemic electrocardiographic changes, mimicking acute coronary syndrome (ACS). Although ventricular septal perforation (VSP) is a rare complication of TCM, it is potentially life-threatening if left untreated. Whether the conventional electrocardiographic criteria for TCM are beneficial, even in patients of TCM with VSP, remains unclear.
CASE PRESENTATION: An 87-year-old woman was admitted for worsening dyspnea. Elevated serum cardiac enzyme levels, LV dysfunction on echocardiography, and ST-segment elevation in leads V1-4 on electrocardiogram were initially suggestive of ACS. An emergency coronary angiography revealed 90 % focal stenosis of the mid-portion of the right coronary artery (RCA) with Thrombolysis in Myocardial Infarction flow grade 2. However, left ventriculography revealed LV apical ballooning with a coexisting left-to-right shunting, which was beyond single RCA distributions, leading to a final diagnosis of TCM with VSP. Repeat echocardiography confirmed VSP and right ventricular involvement with severe pulmonary hypertension. Following successful percutaneous coronary intervention with a drug-eluting stent for RCA stenosis, the patient was managed with medical treatment without surgical intervention. Eventually, VSP and associated pulmonary hypertension markedly improved along with the normalization of the patient's cardiac structure and function. The patient's clinical course was uneventful at the 1-year follow-up.
CONCLUSIONS: Herein, we describe the case of TCM with VSP that we successfully managed with medical treatments. Our case highlights the significance of elucidating this rare complication of TCM, pitfalls of the conventional electrocardiographic diagnostic criteria for TCM, and potential of this unique electrocardiographic pattern for identifying TCM-associated VSP.

Citation: Haruki S, et al. ST-segment elevation in V1-4 in takotsubo cardiomyopathy with ventricular septal perforation: A case report and literature review. ST-segment elevation in V1-4 in takotsubo cardiomyopathy with ventricular septal perforation: A case report and literature review. 2024; 10:e38812. doi: 10.1016/j.heliyon.2024.e38812

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/39444407/
