PMID: 39452287
Title: Bicuspid Aortic Valve in Children and Young Adults for Cardiologists and Cardiac Surgeons: State-of-the-Art of Literature Review.

Abstract: Bicuspid aortic valve disease is the most prevalent congenital heart disease, affecting up to 2% of the general population. The presentation of symptoms may vary based on the patient's anatomy of fusion, with transthoracic echocardiography being the primary diagnostic tool. Bicuspid aortic valves may also appear with concomitant aortopathy, featuring fundamental structural changes which can lead to valve dysfunction and/or aortic dilatation over time. This article seeks to give a comprehensive overview of the presentation, treatment possibilities and long-term effects of this condition. The databases MEDLINE, Embase, and the Cochrane Library were searched using the terms "endocarditis" or "bicuspid aortic valve" in combination with "epidemiology", "pathogenesis", "manifestations", "imaging", "treatment", or "surgery" to retrieve relevant articles. We have identified two types of bicuspid aortic valve disease: aortic stenosis and aortic regurgitation. Valve replacement or repair is often necessary. Patients need to be informed about the benefits and drawbacks of different valve substitutes, particularly with regard to life-long anticoagulation and female patients of childbearing age. Depending on the expertise of the surgeon and institution, the Ross procedure may be a viable alternative. Management of these patients should take into account the likelihood of somatic growth, risk of re-intervention, and anticoagulation risks that are specific to the patient, alongside the expertise of the surgeon or centre. Further research is required on the secondary prevention of patients with bicuspid aortic valve (BAV), such as lifestyle advice and antibiotics to prevent infections, as the guidelines are unclear and lack strong evidence.

Citation: Nappi F, et al. Bicuspid Aortic Valve in Children and Young Adults for Cardiologists and Cardiac Surgeons: State-of-the-Art of Literature Review. Bicuspid Aortic Valve in Children and Young Adults for Cardiologists and Cardiac Surgeons: State-of-the-Art of Literature Review. 2024; 11:(unknown pages). doi: 10.3390/jcdd11100317

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/39452287/
