PMID: 39451626
Title: Secondary Angle Closure Glaucoma in Weill-Marchesani Syndrome.

Abstract: We report a case of a 16-year-old girl presenting to our clinic with decreased visual acuity and increased intraocular pressure in both eyes. The ophthalmological examination revealed best-corrected visual acuity (BCVA) of 0.3 in the right eye (R.E.) and 0.4 in the left eye (L.E.) and intraocular pressure (IOP) of 46 mmHg in the R.E. and 42 mmHg in the L.E., with a 360° closed angle on gonioscopy, pupillary block due to bulging, a hyper-spherical lens and high corneal thickness, without ectopia lentis or cataract. The eyes responded poorly to pharmacological mydriasis; therefore, the lens equator could not be visualised. The patient had a history of pulmonary stenosis, short stature and no significant cognitive deficits. These elements point to the diagnosis of Weill-Marchesani syndrome, and the ophthalmological management was surgical, including lens extraction and the installation of a capsular tension ring, an intraocular lens and a Shunt ExPress implantation. Evolution was favourable, with improved BCVA of 0.7 in the R.E. and 0.63 in the L.E. and IOP of 14 mmHg in the R.E. and 13 mmHg in the L.E., without topical or systemic treatment at the 6-month follow-up. Weill-Marchesani syndrome has a complex presentation, with ophthalmological, musculoskeletal, cardiac and psychiatric manifestations. Usually, this leads to a need for a multidisciplinary approach. The ophthalmologic symptoms are often the cause of presentation to a specialist, and glaucoma is the most threatening of the ocular pathologies, with possible evolution into irreversible blindness; therefore, prompt surgery and careful follow-up become key components of the treatment plan. As a take-home message, we encourage a high degree of suspicion of Weill-Marchesani syndrome in such cases.

Citation: Coviltir V, et al. Secondary Angle Closure Glaucoma in Weill-Marchesani Syndrome. Secondary Angle Closure Glaucoma in Weill-Marchesani Syndrome. 2024; 14:(unknown pages). doi: 10.3390/diagnostics14202303

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/39451626/
