PMID: 39458154
Title: Extent of Endoscopic Sinus Surgery for Odontogenic Sinusitis of Endodontic Origin with Ethmoid and Frontal Sinus Involvement.

Abstract: Background/Objectives: Odontogenic sinusitis (ODS) is the most common cause of unilateral maxillary sinus opacification. Initial treatment consists of intranasal steroids and antimicrobial therapy. In case of persistence of the disease, endoscopic sinus surgery (ESS) is advised. It is still not clear what extension of ESS is required and whether frontal sinusotomy or ethmoidectomy is justified in ODS with frontal sinus involvement. Methods: Adult patients presented with uncomplicated recalcitrant bacterial ODS due to endodontic-related dental pathology were evaluated by an otolaryngologist and a dentist and scheduled for ESS. Sinus CT scan demonstrated opacification of maxillary sinus and partial or complete opacification of extramaxillary sinuses ipsilateral to the side of ODS. Patients were undergoing either maxillary antrostomy, antroethmoidectomy, or antroethmofrontostomy. Preoperative and postoperative evaluations were done with nasal endoscopy, dental examination, subjective and radiological symptoms. Results: The study group consisted of 30 patients. Statistically significant decreases in values after surgery were found for SNOT-22, OHIP-14, Lund-Mackay, Lund-Kennedy, and Zinreich scale. Tooth pain was present in 40% cases during the first visit and in 10% during the follow-up visit. Foul smell was initially reported by 73.3% and by one patient during follow-up visit (3.3%). Significantly longer total recovery time and more crusting was marked for antroethmofrontostomy when compared to maxillary antrostomy. Conclusions: ESS resolved ODS with ethmoid and frontal involvement in almost every case. Minimal surgery led to improved overall clinical success in the same way as antroethmofrontostomy without risking the frontal recess scarring and stenosis.

Citation: Kwiatkowska MA, et al. Extent of Endoscopic Sinus Surgery for Odontogenic Sinusitis of Endodontic Origin with Ethmoid and Frontal Sinus Involvement. Extent of Endoscopic Sinus Surgery for Odontogenic Sinusitis of Endodontic Origin with Ethmoid and Frontal Sinus Involvement. 2024; 13:(unknown pages). doi: 10.3390/jcm13206204

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/39458154/
