PMID: 39458113
Title: Impact of Hypertension and Physical Exercise on Hemolysis Risk in the Left Coronary Artery: A Computational Fluid Dynamics Analysis.

Abstract: Background and Objectives: Hypertension increases the risk of developing atherosclerosis and arterial stiffness, with secondarily enhanced wall stress pressure that damages the artery wall. The coexistence of atherosclerosis and hypertension leads to artery stenosis and microvascular angiopathies, during which the intravascular mechanical hemolysis of red blood cells (RBCs) occurs, leading to increased platelet activation, dysfunction of the endothelium and smooth muscle cells due to a decrease in nitric oxide, and the direct harmful effects of hemoglobin and iron released from the red blood cells. This study analyzed the impact of hypertension and physical exercise on the risk of hemolysis in the left coronary artery. Methods: To analyze many different cases and consider the decrease in flow through narrowed arteries, a flow model was adopted that considered hydraulic resistance in the distal section, which depended on the conditions of hypertension and exercise. The commercial ANSYS Fluent 2023R2 software supplemented with user-defined functions was used for the simulation. CFD simulations were performed and compared with the FSI simulation results. Results: The differences obtained between the FSI and CFD simulations were negligible, which allowed the continuation of analyses based only on CFD simulations. The drops in pressure and the risk of hemolysis increased dramatically with increased flow associated with increased exercise. A relationship was observed between the increase in blood pressure and hypertension, but in this case, the increase in blood pressure dropped, and the risk of hemolysis was not so substantial. However, by far, the case of increased physical activity with hypertension had the highest risk of hemolysis, which is associated with an increased risk of clot formation that can block distal arteries and lead to myocardial hypoxia. Conclusions: The influence of hypertension and increased physical exercise on the increased risk of hemolysis has been demonstrated.

Citation: Jędrzejczak K, et al. Impact of Hypertension and Physical Exercise on Hemolysis Risk in the Left Coronary Artery: A Computational Fluid Dynamics Analysis. Impact of Hypertension and Physical Exercise on Hemolysis Risk in the Left Coronary Artery: A Computational Fluid Dynamics Analysis. 2024; 13:(unknown pages). doi: 10.3390/jcm13206163

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/39458113/
