PMID: 39461471
Title: Aortic valve calcification volume and prognosis in patients undergoing transcatheter aortic valve implantation.

Abstract: INTRODUCTION AND OBJECTIVES: It is unknown whether aortic valve calcium volume, as measured by contrast-enhanced computed tomography angiography (angio-CT), is associated with mortality in patients undergoing transcatheter aortic valve implantation (TAVI). We aimed to confirm that contrast-enhanced aortic valve calcium correlates with noncontrast-enhanced calcium score and provides useful prognostic information in patients undergoing TAVI.
METHODS: This retrospective observational study included patients from 2 high-volume TAVI centers in Germany, all of whom underwent high-quality angio-CT prior to TAVI. Calcium volume in contrast-enhanced angio-CT was calculated using 3Mensio software (Pie Medical, The Netherlands), while the calcium score from noncontrast-enhanced angio-CT was obtained using the Syngo.via (Siemens Healthineers, Germany) workstation to validate contrast-enhanced angio-CT values. Calcium volume was dichotomized using the median based on to sex-specific values from contrast-enhanced angio-CT, and the risk associated with increased calcium volume was determined using Cox proportional hazard regression analysis.
RESULTS: We included 3318 TAVI patients. A good correlation was observed between noncontrast-enhanced and contrast-enhanced angio-CT (r2 = 0.680; P &lt; .001). The median values for sex-specific contrast-enhanced angio-CT calcium volume were 514 mm3 for women and 1025 mm3 for men. Patients with higher calcium volumes showed lower mortality at 1 year (8.8% vs 12.1%; adjusted hazard ratio [HR], 0.86; 95% confidence interval [95%CI], 0.75-0.98; P = .02) compared with those with lower calcium volumes.
CONCLUSIONS: Calcium volume in contrast-enhanced angio-CT correlated well with noncontrast-enhanced angio-CT calcium score. Patients with higher calcium volume showed lower mortality at 1 year after TAVI.

Citation: Álvarez-Covarrubias HA, et al. Aortic valve calcification volume and prognosis in patients undergoing transcatheter aortic valve implantation. Aortic valve calcification volume and prognosis in patients undergoing transcatheter aortic valve implantation. 2024; (unknown volume):(unknown pages). doi: 10.1016/j.rec.2024.10.005

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/39461471/
