PMID: 39478919
Title: Differences between valve types in anatomic changes of the aortic root after surgical aortic valve replacement.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: When transcatheter aortic valve-in-surgical aortic valve (TAV-in-SAV) is considered as a secondary interventional option, it is desirable to estimate the risk of coronary obstruction during future TAV-in-SAV before the initial surgical aortic valve replacement (SAVR), for which knowledge of the anatomic changes after SAVR is essential. We investigated the changes in the aortic root and evaluated the differences in changes between valve types.
METHODS: Pre- and post-SAVR computed tomography scans of 124 patients with aortic stenosis who underwent SAVR with various bioprosthetic valves were analyzed retrospectively. Postoperative aortic root changes and parameters related to future TAV-in-SAV were compared between the sutured valve group and rapid-deployment/sutureless valve group.
RESULTS: After SAVR, the coronary height in the sutured valve group and rapid-deployment/sutureless valve group was shortened by a median of 4.6 to 5.3 mm and 0.5 to 2.2 mm, respectively, and the sinus of Valsalva (SOV) diameter was reduced by a median of 1.6 to 2.7 mm and 0.1 to 1.3 mm, respectively. A significantly higher proportion of patients in the rapid deployment/sutureless valve group had a coronary orifice (especially in the right coronary artery) above the risk plane. The valve-to-coronary distance and valve-to-aorta distance (VTA) were adequate in most patients. The only difference between the groups was in the left VTA.
CONCLUSIONS: Decreases in coronary height and SOV diameter were observed after SAVR, especially in the sutured valve group. The aortic root structure was better preserved in the rapid-deployment/sutureless valve group. This may be advantageous for future TAV-in-SAV. These results are important for considering the feasibility of future TAV-in-SAV.

Citation: Kawamura A, et al. Differences between valve types in anatomic changes of the aortic root after surgical aortic valve replacement. Differences between valve types in anatomic changes of the aortic root after surgical aortic valve replacement. 2024; 27:51-59. doi: 10.1016/j.xjtc.2024.07.014

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/39478919/
