PMID: 39477872
Title: Laparoscopic transhiatal surgery based on high-resolution manometric evaluation of epiphrenic esophageal diverticulum.

Abstract: Epiphrenic esophageal diverticulum is rare and often associated with abnormalities of esophageal motility. Here, we report a case of a patient diagnosed with high-resolution manometry as having epiphrenic esophageal diverticulum with esophagogastric junction outflow obstruction, which were successfully treated with laparoscopic transhiatal surgery. A 59-year-old woman presented to our hospital for treatment of a symptomatic epiphrenic esophageal diverticulum. An esophagogram revealed a left epiphrenic diverticulum measuring 50 mm. High-resolution manometry showed a high integrated relaxation pressure of 35.6 mmHg (> 26 mmHg) and preserved esophageal peristalsis. A chest computed tomography scan showed no external compression of the distal esophagus. Therefore, we diagnosed an epiphrenic esophageal diverticulum with esophagogastric junction outflow obstruction according to the Chicago Classification v3.0. Laparoscopic transhiatal diverticulectomy, planned and selective myotomy, and Dor fundoplication were performed. We performed myotomy just on the esophageal side and did not perform gastric myotomy. The postoperative course was uneventful, and the postoperative esophagogram showed smooth passage of contrast without leakage or stenosis. High-resolution manometry showed a normal integrated relaxation pressure (11.6 mmHg) at three months after surgery. Because an epiphrenic esophageal diverticulum is frequently associated with esophageal motility disorder, not only morphologic but also functional and appropriate treatment must be considered.

Citation: Taketo R, et al. Laparoscopic transhiatal surgery based on high-resolution manometric evaluation of epiphrenic esophageal diverticulum. Laparoscopic transhiatal surgery based on high-resolution manometric evaluation of epiphrenic esophageal diverticulum. 2024; (unknown volume):(unknown pages). doi: 10.1007/s12328-024-02056-0

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/39477872/
