PMID: 39487380
Title: Integrating myocardial CT perfusion with coronary CT angiography improves risk stratification in patients with dialysis-dependent end-stage renal disease.

Abstract: PURPOSE: Risk stratification for incidence of major adverse cardiovascular events (MACE) in patients with dialysis-dependent end-stage renal disease (dd-ESRD) is challenging. Moreover, the usefulness of coronary CT angiography (CCTA) is often limited because of high calcification. This study aimed to investigate the prognostic value of comprehensive cardiac CT in patients with dd-ESRD for predicting MACE.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: This retrospective analysis included 92 patients with dd-ESRD who underwent comprehensive cardiac CT. Obstructive coronary artery disease (CAD) was defined by CCTA with > 50% stenosis. Global myocardial blood flow (MBF) and summed stress score (SSS) were obtained through dynamic CTP. Cox regression analysis was used to assess correlation with MACE. Kaplan-Meier curves were used to estimate cumulative event rates, and the global Chi-square test was used to assess the incremental value of dynamic CTP over CCTA.
RESULTS: During a median follow-up of 2.3 years, 43 patients experienced MACE. Univariate analysis revealed that presence of obstructive CAD, higher SSS, and lower global MBF were significantly associated with increased risk of MACE. In multivariable analysis, lower global MBF and presence of obstructive CAD were independently associated with MACE (p = 0.02, and p = 0.04, respectively). CCTA and dynamic CTP combination had incremental value over CCTA alone for predicting MACE, respectively (global Chi-square score, 19.3 and 11.7, respectively).
CONCLUSION: Presence of obstructive CAD on CCTA and lower global MBF on dynamic CTP are independently associated with increased risk of MACE in patients with dd-ESRD. The addition of dynamic CTP to CCTA may improve risk stratification in this population.

Citation: Araki S, et al. Integrating myocardial CT perfusion with coronary CT angiography improves risk stratification in patients with dialysis-dependent end-stage renal disease. Integrating myocardial CT perfusion with coronary CT angiography improves risk stratification in patients with dialysis-dependent end-stage renal disease. 2024; (unknown volume):(unknown pages). doi: 10.1007/s11604-024-01690-5

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/39487380/
