PMID: 39488620
Title: Echocardiographic Assessment in Patients with Vascular Ehlers-Danlos Syndrome: Insights from an Unexplored Field.

Abstract: INTRODUCTION: Vascular Ehlers-Danlos syndrome (vEDS) is an inherited connective tissue disorder characterized by arterial fragility. Celiprolol is a β1-adrenoceptor antagonist with partial β2 agonist activity that has been shown to reduce rates of vascular events in this setting, though the underlying mechanisms are not yet fully understood. Moreover, very few echocardiographic data are available in patients with vEDS.
AIM: To perform a comprehensive echocardiographic assessment of a cohort of patients with vEDS with or without celiprolol therapy compared with healthy subjects.
METHODS: Twenty patients with genetically confirmed diagnosis of vEDS followed at our Institution (University Hospital of Brescia, Italy) were divided into two groups according to whether or not they were on celiprolol therapy at the maximum recommended dose (400 mg daily) for at least 12 months. Both groups were compared to 10 healthy individuals matched for sex, age, body mass index (BMI), and office blood pressure (BP) values. Each participant underwent transthoracic echocardiography with tissue Doppler analysis (TDI) for a comprehensive evaluation of cardiac structure and function.
RESULTS: Mean age was 35 years and mean BMI was 21.6 kg/m2. Female sex was prevalent (60%). Left ventricular (LV) internal diameter values tended to be lower in patients with untreated vEDS than in healthy controls (4.33 vs 4.74 cm, respectively), though this difference was not statistically significant. Similar data were observed for LV mass index (56.9 vs 68.6 g/m2), stroke volume (56.6 vs 71.6 mL), and E/A ratio (1.26 vs 1.66), whereas an opposite trend was observed for e' lateral (13.2 vs 12.2 cm/s). No statistically significant difference was found between groups in terms of other parameters of LV mass, systolic and diastolic function. A normal LV geometry was found in all the cases. Indices of mechano-energetic efficiency and ventricular-arterial coupling were also similar between groups. No patient presented with aortic root dilation, mitral valve prolapse, valve insufficiency of more than mild degree, or valve stenosis of any degree.
CONCLUSION: Our study suggests that patients with vEDS have normal cardiac mass and geometry, as well as normal systolic and diastolic function. Celiprolol therapy does not seem to significantly influence such aspects. Compared with vascular imaging, less stringent follow-up with echocardiography seems reasonable in this setting. Future studies with prospective design should confirm these aspects.

Citation: Buso G, et al. Echocardiographic Assessment in Patients with Vascular Ehlers-Danlos Syndrome: Insights from an Unexplored Field. Echocardiographic Assessment in Patients with Vascular Ehlers-Danlos Syndrome: Insights from an Unexplored Field. 2024; (unknown volume):(unknown pages). doi: 10.1007/s40292-024-00692-8

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/39488620/
