PMID: 39483267
Title: Valvular heart disease and cardiomyopathy in China: epidemiology and current treatments.

Abstract: The Annual Report on Cardiovascular Health and Diseases in China (2022) intricate landscape of cardiovascular health in China. In connection with the previous section, this ninth section of the report offers a comprehensive analysis of valvular heart disease and cardiomyopathy. Although rheumatic valve disease is still the main cause of valvular heart disease in China, with the aging of the population and the improvement of living standards, the prevalence of degenerative valvular heart disease is on the rise. Because many patients with valvular heart disease have only mild to moderate valve stenosis or insufﬁciency, and no symptoms, the detection rate in the population is low and late, resulting in many patients been in the severe late stage of disease at visit, increasing the difﬁculty of treatment and affecting effectiveness and prognosis. Therefore, we should strengthen the examination and screening of valvular heart disease in order to ﬁnd and prevent it as early as possible. In addition, compared with other diseases, the treatment of valvular heart disease needs more and higher technical support (surgery, intervention, etc). However, not all hospitals can provide relevant technologies. At present, the treatment of valvular heart disease is still mainly concentrated in the provincial hospitals. It is necessary to carry out more professional training so that more doctors and hospitals can participate in the treatment of valvular heart disease. Cardiomyopathy is a group of myocardial diseases with abnormal myocardial structure and/or function, but couldn't be explained by hypertension, coronary atherosclerosis, valvular heart disease and congenital heart disease. It includes hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (HCM), dilated cardiomyopathy (DCM), arrhythmogenic cardiomyopathy (also known as arrhythmogenic right ventricular cardiomyopathy), restrictive cardiomyopathy (RCM) and undifferentiated cardiomyopathy.

Citation: Hu SS. Valvular heart disease and cardiomyopathy in China: epidemiology and current treatments. Valvular heart disease and cardiomyopathy in China: epidemiology and current treatments. 2024; 21:831-845. doi: 10.26599/1671-5411.2024.09.008

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/39483267/
