PMID: 39489158
Title: Total arterial revascularization with RIMA-LIMA-Y configuration in patients with left subclavian artery stenosis.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Subclavian artery stenosis (SAS) occurs in 6% of patients undergoing coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG). Complications such as subclavian-coronary steal are common. Revascularization options in such cases remain debatable.
METHODS: In this case series, all patients with angina, had severe triple vessel disease on angiography. All tests including computed tomography (CT) angiography of neck vessels, were done as part of routine workup for CABG.
RESULTS: The patients, all males, had a mean age of 66.5 years with three of them having hypertension and diabetes. All were ex-smokers with mean ejection fraction (EF) of 60.1%. CT angiography of neck vessels revealed that two patients had moderate to severe while one had severe left SAS and another had severe proximal left internal mammary artery (LIMA) stenosis. Total arterial revascularization was performed, with an average of 3.5 distal grafts. The LIMA graft was employed in a Y graft configuration, anastomosed to in-situ right internal mammary artery (RIMA). All patients had uneventful postoperative stay and were discharged with a mean hospital stay of 3.8 days. There were no postoperative strokes, myocardial infarction, neurological symptoms, or change in EF. At 6-month follow-up, they were asymptomatic and doing well.
CONCLUSION: The RIMA-LIMA-Y configuration can be a safe, viable option in CABG for patients with left SAS. It is challenging, with re-entry and judicious utilization of the length of LIMA being of paramount importance. The importance of CT angiography of neck vessels to detect SAS cannot be under-emphasized.

Citation: Kumar A, et al. Total arterial revascularization with RIMA-LIMA-Y configuration in patients with left subclavian artery stenosis. Total arterial revascularization with RIMA-LIMA-Y configuration in patients with left subclavian artery stenosis. 2024; (unknown volume):2184923241284318. doi: 10.1177/02184923241284318

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/39489158/
