PMID: 39488341
Title: Effects of different endovascular treatments on cerebral perfusion changes and stroke recurrence in patients with intracranial atherosclerosis.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: In patients with refractory intracranial atherosclerotic disease (ICAD), percutaneous transluminal balloon angioplasty (PTBA) is less complex but typically results in higher postprocedural residual stenosis than percutaneous transluminal angioplasty with stenting (PTAS).
METHODS: This study included patients with symptomatic ICAD with 70-99% stenosis treated with either PTBA or PTAS. All patients underwent preprocedural and postprocedural CT perfusion, which was processed by automated RAPID software. The rate of cerebral perfusion change was defined as the ratio of the volume of perfusion change to the preprocedural perfusion volume. Perioperative complications within a 30-day follow-up period were documented. Baseline characteristics, degree of stenosis before and after procedures, perioperative complications, and the rates of cerebral perfusion change were compared between groups. Patients were followed up for stroke recurrence within 1 year postprocedure, with survival analysis used to examine the relationship between procedure type and recurrence.
RESULTS: Between March and December 2021, 107 patients were enrolled: 30 (28.0%) were treated with PTBA and 77 (72.0%) with percutaneous transluminal angioplasty with stenting (PTAS). The PTBA group showed higher postprocedural residual stenosis than the PTAS group (P<0.004). The cerebral perfusion change rates were not significantly different between the groups (P=0.891). Three (3.9%) complications occurred in the PTAS group and none in the PTBA group during the 30-day follow-up. Stroke recurrence did not significantly differ between the procedures (P=0.960).
CONCLUSIONS: Immediate cerebral perfusion changes and the rate of stroke recurrences have no significant difference between the two groups.

Citation: Zhang J, et al. Effects of different endovascular treatments on cerebral perfusion changes and stroke recurrence in patients with intracranial atherosclerosis. Effects of different endovascular treatments on cerebral perfusion changes and stroke recurrence in patients with intracranial atherosclerosis. 2024; (unknown volume):(unknown pages). doi: 10.1136/jnis-2024-022365

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/39488341/
