PMID: 39494562
Title: Racial and Socioeconomic Health Disparities in Peripheral Artery Disease.

Abstract: Peripheral artery disease (PAD) is a progressive atherosclerotic disease that causes lower extremity arterial stenosis or occlusion. Patients with PAD are at increased risk of myocardial infarction, stroke, limitations in ambulation, and amputation. Despite the advances in medicine and technology, the outcomes from PAD, including critical limb-threatening ischemia, acute limb ischemia amputation, and mortality, remain increased among specific racial and ethnic groups that have been historically marginalized in America, including Black, Hispanic, and American Indian individuals in the United States when compared with White persons. The purpose of this review is to summarize PAD literature that incorporates racial and ethnic disparities in PAD. There are a rising number of studies focused on the interface of racial and ethnic disparities and PAD. The majority of these studies are specifically focused on Black race, whereas there are limited studies focused on other minoritized racial and ethnic groups in the United States. The application of race and ethnicity has also been shown to play a synergistic role with socioeconomic status on PAD outcomes. Effective strategies focused on implementing policies that support quality measures and focus on social determinants of health have been shown to promote health equity and reduce disparities. Current evidence suggests that biological differences are less likely to be the leading cause of disparities in PAD between racial and ethnic groups compared with White Americans and supports a renewed focus on social determinants of health to achieve health equity.

Citation: Thomas VE and Beckman JA. Racial and Socioeconomic Health Disparities in Peripheral Artery Disease. Racial and Socioeconomic Health Disparities in Peripheral Artery Disease. 2024; 13:e031446. doi: 10.1161/JAHA.123.031446

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/39494562/
