PMID: 39492715
Title: Association of Homelessness and Unstable Housing With Cardiovascular Care Utilization Among Veterans.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Veterans are disproportionately more likely to experience homelessness and unstable housing (HUH) compared with the general population. Cardiovascular disease is the leading cause of death among Veterans experiencing HUH. We aimed to understand whether HUH status among Veterans with preexisting cardiovascular disease was associated with disparities in cardiovascular care access and utilization.
METHODS: Retrospective study of all Veterans with preexisting cardiovascular disease between 2017 and 2019 using Veterans Affairs Corporate Data Warehouse and Homeless registry data. Primary outcomes were annual outpatient visits for cardiovascular disease management and visits with cardiovascular disease-related specialists. Secondary outcomes included cardiovascular disease-related procedures and emergency department visits and hospitalizations. HUH status was determined based on response to a screener, diagnostic codes, or use of homelessness services, and outcomes were assessed in the first year HUH status was determined. After applying inverse probability of treatment weighting, negative binomial and logistic regression models were fit to estimate the association between experiencing HUH and the outcomes of interest.
RESULTS: Among 1 357 973 Veterans (mean age, 71.6 [SD=10.6] years; 2.5% female) with preexisting cardiovascular disease, 56 093 were identified as experiencing HUH during the study period. Veterans experiencing HUH had fewer outpatient visits for cardiovascular disease management or with cardiovascular disease-related specialists (4.3% [95% CI, 2.5%-6.1%] and 14.1% [95% CI, 12.5%-15.8%], respectively) compared with housed Veterans. HUH status was associated with lower rates of receiving certain procedures including coronary artery bypass graft, lower extremity revascularization, and carotid artery stenosis interventions and higher rates of all-cause and cardiovascular emergency department visits and hospitalizations.
CONCLUSIONS: Veterans with chronic cardiovascular conditions experiencing HUH had lower rates of outpatient visits for cardiovascular disease management and higher rates of emergency department visits and hospitalizations. Given the disproportionate burden of cardiovascular disease in this population, interventions to improve access to cardiovascular care are needed.

Citation: Sokoloff LJ, et al. Association of Homelessness and Unstable Housing With Cardiovascular Care Utilization Among Veterans. Association of Homelessness and Unstable Housing With Cardiovascular Care Utilization Among Veterans. 2024; (unknown volume):e010993. doi: 10.1161/CIRCOUTCOMES.124.010993

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/39492715/
