PMID: 39494136
Title: High-resolution magnetic resonance imaging in the diagnosis and management of vertebral artery dissection: A case report.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Vertebral artery dissection (VAD) is a rare but life-threatening condition characterized by tearing of the intimal layer of the vertebral artery, leading to stenosis, occlusion or rupture. The clinical presentation of VAD can be heterogeneous, with common symptoms including headache, dizziness and balance problems. Timely diagnosis and treatment are crucial for favorable outcomes; however, VAD is often missed due to its variable clinical presentation and lack of robust diagnostic guidelines. High-resolution magnetic resonance imaging (HRMRI) has emerged as a reliable diagnostic tool for VAD, providing detailed visualization of vessel wall abnormalities.
CASE SUMMARY: A young male patient presented with an acute onset of severe headache, vomiting, and seizures, followed by altered consciousness. Imaging studies revealed bilateral VAD, basilar artery thrombosis, multiple brainstem and cerebellar infarcts, and subarachnoid hemorrhage. Digital subtraction angiography (DSA) revealed vertebral artery stenosis but failed to detect the dissection, potentially because intramural thrombosis obscured the VAD. In contrast, HRMRI confirmed the diagnosis by revealing specific signs of dissection. The patient was managed conservatively with antiplatelet therapy and other supportive measures, such as blood pressure control and pain management. After 5 mo of rehabilitation, the patient showed significant improvement in swallowing and limb strength.
CONCLUSION: HR-MRI can provide precise evidence for the identification of VAD.

Citation: Zhang HB, et al. High-resolution magnetic resonance imaging in the diagnosis and management of vertebral artery dissection: A case report. High-resolution magnetic resonance imaging in the diagnosis and management of vertebral artery dissection: A case report. 2024; 16:593-599. doi: 10.4329/wjr.v16.i10.593

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/39494136/
