PMID: 39491461
Title: Modified Double-Tract Reconstruction in Gastrointestinal Reconstruction after Proximal Gastrectomy.

Abstract: OBJECTIVE: To determine the clinical efficacy and safety of modified double-channel anastomosis for digestive tract reconstruction in proximal gastrectomy for early gastric cancer (EGC).
STUDY DESIGN: Case series. Place and Duration of the Study: Department of Gastrointestinal Surgery, Heji Hospital, Changzhi Medical College, Shanxi, China, from January to November 2022.
METHODOLOGY: Based on inclusion and exclusion criteria, this study included a total of 21 patients with oesophagogastric junction cancer or proximal gastric cancer who underwent laparoscopic proximal gastrectomy with modified double-channel anastomosis. After resection of the proximal stomach, the remaining stomach was shaped into a tube. The distal end of the oesophagus was anastomosed to the jejunum. The jejunum was anastomosed 10-15 cm from the oesophagojejunostomy site laterally to the anterior wall of the stomach 3 cm from the gastric remnant. General data including operative time, anastomosis time, intraoperative blood loss, time to oral intake, length of hospital stay, and postoperative complications were evaluated. Postoperative gastroscopy and gastrointestinal imaging were performed to assess the residual stomach motility and anti-reflux effect.
RESULTS: All twenty-one patients underwent modified double-channel anastomosis. The mean operation time was 254 (211 - 297) minutes. Mean reconstruction time was 65 (60 - 70) minutes. A mean of 19 (15 - 29) lymph nodes were cleared. Mean intraoperative blood loss was 86 (78.5-105ml). Mean time to oral intake was 6 (5 - 6.5) days. Postoperatively, there were two cases of pulmonary infection. There was no occurrence of anastomotic stenosis, anastomotic bleeding, or leakage. Gastrointestinal contrast study at 6 months postoperatively revealed reduced gastrointestinal motility in three cases and good residual gastric motility observed in the remaining patients. Gastroscopic examination at 6 months postoperatively revealed only one case of reflux oesophagitis.
CONCLUSION: Modified double-channel anastomosis for proximal gastrectomy is safe and feasible. It provides a good anti-reflux effect and gastric emptying function without increasing the risk of postoperative complications.
KEY WORDS: Adenocarcinoma of the oesophagogastric junction, Upper gastric carcinoma, Proximal gastrectomy, Double-tract reconstruction.

Citation: Li Y, et al. Modified Double-Tract Reconstruction in Gastrointestinal Reconstruction after Proximal Gastrectomy. Modified Double-Tract Reconstruction in Gastrointestinal Reconstruction after Proximal Gastrectomy. 2024; 34:1374-1377. doi: 10.29271/jcpsp.2024.11.1374

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/39491461/
