PMID: 39503103
Title: Successful surgical repair of Taussig Bing anomaly with pulmonary artery and pulmonary valve stenosis in a neonate patient: A case report.

Abstract: INTRODUCTION AND IMPORTANCE: Taussig Bing anomaly (TBA), a subtype of double outlet right ventricle, is a rare congenital cardiac malformation. TBA consists of double outlet right ventricle, sub-pulmonary ventricular septal defect, and side-by-side localization of the great arteries. The association of pulmonary artery and pulmonary valve stenosis with TBA is an uncommon phenomenon.
CASE PRESENTATION: A 2-day-old male neonate presented with central cyanosis and poor breastfeeding following birth. His mother had no history of drug use or medical issues during pregnancy. The neonate was diagnosed TBA with pulmonary artery and pulmonary valve stenosis based on investigations including electrocardiogram, chest X-rays, and echocardiography. At three months of age, the child underwent palliative Blalock-Taussig shunt surgery (BTS) before undergoing Réparation à l'Ètage Ventriculaire (REV) repair surgery at the age of two. The follow-up showed that the child is currently in good health without any complications.
CLINICAL DISCUSSION: Patients with TBA should be diagnosed early to plan the correct surgical technique and timely intervention, which can significantly improve the quality of life for these patients.
CONCLUSION: TBA is a surgical challenge, which becomes even more challenging when accompanied by other malformations such as pulmonary artery and pulmonary valve stenosis. Medical team should work together to improve the patient's outcome.

Citation: Barakat L, et al. Successful surgical repair of Taussig Bing anomaly with pulmonary artery and pulmonary valve stenosis in a neonate patient: A case report. Successful surgical repair of Taussig Bing anomaly with pulmonary artery and pulmonary valve stenosis in a neonate patient: A case report. 2024; 125:110462. doi: 10.1016/j.ijscr.2024.110462

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/39503103/
