PMID: 39517095
Title: Early structural valve deterioration following transcatheter aortic valve implantation in a patient with Scheie syndrome: a case report.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Scheie syndrome, an attenuated subtype of mucopolysaccharidosis type I, is a rare storage disease that causes progressive glycosaminoglycans (GAGs) accumulation. Cardiovascular disorders determine the prognosis, and cardiac valve abnormalities are the most common cause. The patients are usually young so mechanical valve replacement is often performed, but because of the features of this disease, the surgical treatment is very risky. Recently, transcatheter aortic valve implantation (TAVI) has been reported as an alternative choice for aortic stenosis, but optimal choice is still unclear. Here, we introduce a patient that underwent TAVI and refer to the histological finding of a biological valve extracted in relation to GAGs accumulation.
CASE PRESENTATION: A 54-year-old woman with Scheie syndrome underwent valve surgeries three times throughout her whole life. At age 41, she received a mitral valve replacement with a mechanical valve for mitral stenosis. She promptly developed severe diastolic dysfunction and low output syndrome after the release of aortic clamping, thus requiring temporary mechanical circulatory support4. At age 51, she suffered from heart failure due to severe aortic stenosis and underwent TAVI because conventional aortic valve replacement (AVR) was deemed too risky. Three years later, her heart failure relapsed, and an echocardiogram unexpectedly revealed thickened bioprosthetic valve leaflets and a significant pressure gradient across the valve, consistent with early structural valve deterioration. AVR was performed via median sternotomy with a mechanical valve. As with the first operation, she presented refractory heart failure requiring mechanical circulatory support and was meticulously managed. However, she steadily showed worsening of multiple organ systems and died 9 days after the operation. Pathological autopsy and histological examination revealed accumulation of tissue with GAGs on the leaflets of the bioprosthetic valve of TAVI, which may have been the cause of early structural valve deterioration.
CONCLUSION: For patients with Scheie syndrome, a biological valve can be compromised by the accumulation of GAGs, thereby causing early SVD. These findings may support valve selection for these high-risk patients.

Citation: Yanagino Y, et al. Early structural valve deterioration following transcatheter aortic valve implantation in a patient with Scheie syndrome: a case report. Early structural valve deterioration following transcatheter aortic valve implantation in a patient with Scheie syndrome: a case report. 2024; 3:46. doi: 10.1186/s44215-024-00170-6

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/39517095/
