PMID: 39512379
Title: Antiphospholipid antibody positivity is associated with maturation failure and thrombosis of native arteriovenous fistula: a retrospective study in HD patients.

Abstract: BACKGROUND AND HYPOTHESIS: The prevalence of antiphospholipid antibody (aPL) is high among hemodialysis (HD) patients compared to the general population and is inconsistently associated with arteriovenous fistula (AVF) thrombosis or stenosis. The association with maturation failure has never been investigated. This study aims to evaluate native AVF complications (thrombosis, stenosis, and maturation failure) and primary patency in aPL positive HD patients.
METHODS: We retrospectively identified 116 HD patients with native AVF. We collected the aPL profiles, the clinical and biological data potentially involved in AVF maturation failure, thrombosis, and stenosis, and investigated the association of these complications and aPL positivity. Kaplan-Meier survival analysis was performed.
RESULTS: In our cohort, the prevalence of aPL persistent positivity was 32.7% and this was strongly associated with AVF maturation failure defined by ultrasound. aPL persistent positivity was a strong predictor in multivariate analysis and this association was independent of AVF stenosis or thrombosis during maturation process. There was no association with primary and functional primary patency, and stenosis. However, aPL persistent positivity according to ACR/EULAR classification criteria was associated with thrombosis when compared to strictly negative aPL patients.
CONCLUSIONS: In our cohort, aPL persistent positivity was significantly associated with AVF maturation failure and thrombosis but not with AVF stenosis. To our knowledge, we report for the first time, a statistically significant association between aPL positivity and delay or absence of native AVF maturation.

Citation: Taghavi M, et al. Antiphospholipid antibody positivity is associated with maturation failure and thrombosis of native arteriovenous fistula: a retrospective study in HD patients. Antiphospholipid antibody positivity is associated with maturation failure and thrombosis of native arteriovenous fistula: a retrospective study in HD patients. 2024; 17:sfae308. doi: 10.1093/ckj/sfae308

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/39512379/
