PMID: 39512131
Title: Revisiting the Normal Ranges of Aortic Valve Area in 2D Echocardiography and Its Association With Age, Sex, and Anthropometric Characteristics.

Abstract: PURPOSE: Defining normative aortic echocardiographic values in each geographical district is crucial as aortic valve area (AVA) may vary across races, genders, and ages. Notably, variations in normal values can have implications for clinical decision-making, and available data on the Middle East population is also scarce. We sought to establish normal ranges for aortic valve echocardiographic parameters in the Iranian population and assess the effect of age, gender, weight, height, BMI, BSA, and blood pressure on them.
METHODS: Our data were provided from the web-based echocardiographic data registry of Imam Khomeini Hospital Complex (IKHC). A total of 3251 healthy subjects older than 18 years old without any valvular stenosis were included in our study.
RESULTS: AVA's normal range was estimated at 1.92-4.52 and 1.67-3.80 cm2 in men and women, respectively. The annulus, AVA, AV VTI, and LVOT VTI were significantly larger in males, and this association remained significant after indexing AVA for weight, height, BMI, and BSA. Also, smaller AVA was associated with lower height, weight, BMI, and BSA in both men and women. Obese and hypertensive subjects had significantly larger AVA and annulus diameters.
CONCLUSION: Our study provided region-specific normal reference values for AV echocardiographic parameters and compared them across genders, ages, BMI, and blood pressure groups in the Iranian population.

Citation: Agahi S, et al. Revisiting the Normal Ranges of Aortic Valve Area in 2D Echocardiography and Its Association With Age, Sex, and Anthropometric Characteristics. Revisiting the Normal Ranges of Aortic Valve Area in 2D Echocardiography and Its Association With Age, Sex, and Anthropometric Characteristics. 2024; 41:e70029. doi: 10.1111/echo.70029

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/39512131/
