PMID: 39514465
Title: Elevated plasma progranulin levels in the acute phase are correlated with recovery of left ventricular function in the chronic phase in patients with acute myocardial infarction.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Progranulin is a secreted glycoprotein that regulates inflammation and wound healing. However, plasma progranulin levels in the acute phase and their clinical significance in patients with acute myocardial infarction (AMI) remain to be elucidated.
OBJECTIVE: We aimed to investigate the relationship between the increase in plasma progranulin levels in the acute phase and the recovery of left ventricular function in the chronic phase in AMI patients.
METHOD AND RESULT: Eighteen AMI patients were followed up for 6 months. Blood samples were collected from the antecubital vein on day 0 (on admission) and day 7 in the acute phase. The control group consisted of patients without significant coronary artery stenosis, as assessed by cardiac catheterization (n = 16). Plasma progranulin levels were measured by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. Echocardiography was performed in the acute (within 7 days) and chronic (6 months) phases of AMI to evaluate left ventricular ejection fraction using the modified Simpson's method. Plasma progranulin levels in the AMI group on day 0 (69.5 ± 24.6 ng/mL) were similar to those in the control group (84.2 ± 47.1 ng/mL). There was a significant increase in progranulin levels in the AMI group on day 7 (104.2 ± 52.0 ng/mL) compared with day 0. The increase in plasma progranulin levels in the acute phase was positively correlated with the increase in left ventricular ejection fraction between the acute and chronic phases. Among various factors, only plasma progranulin levels were favorably correlated with left ventricular functional recovery in the chronic phase.
CONCLUSION: The increase in plasma progranulin levels in the acute phase may serve as a predictive biomarker and a contributer for the recovery of left ventricular function in the chronic phase in patients with AMI.

Citation: Minatoguchi S, et al. Elevated plasma progranulin levels in the acute phase are correlated with recovery of left ventricular function in the chronic phase in patients with acute myocardial infarction. Elevated plasma progranulin levels in the acute phase are correlated with recovery of left ventricular function in the chronic phase in patients with acute myocardial infarction. 2024; 19:e0313014. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0313014

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/39514465/
