PMID: 39516926
Title: Hybrid surgical approach for a large schwannoma from the cervical esophagus to the upper thoracic esophagus: a case report.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Esophageal schwannoma is an extremely rare esophageal submucosal tumor. We report a case of a hybrid surgery for a large esophageal schwannoma that had extended from the cervical to the upper thoracic esophagus by using thoracoscopic and cervical approaches.
CASE PRESENTATION: A 58-year-old male was referred to our hospital for further examination and treatment of dysphagia and weight loss over the past 6 months. Upper gastrointestinal endoscopy revealed a 5.7-cm submucosal tumor from the cervical esophagus to the upper thoracic esophagus. The submucosal tumor was diagnosed as esophageal schwannoma by endoscopic ultrasound-guided fine-needle aspiration biopsy (EUS-FNA). Contrast-enhanced CT showed that the tumor had not invaded surrounding organs. Since the tumor extended from the cervical esophagus to the upper thoracic esophagus, we decided that it should be resected by not only the cervical but also the thoracoscopic approach. In operation, the patient was first placed in the prone position, and a thoracoscopic dissection of the upper thoracic esophagus containing the tumor was performed from the surrounding area. After changing the patient's position from prone to supine, a cervical skin incision was performed, and we underwent the tumor enucleation. After enucleation, the esophageal wall was thinned, so the right sternocleidomastoid muscle was used to reinforce the esophageal wall. The tumor size of the specimen was 60 × 52 × 42 mm. The postoperative course was uneventful, and the patient was discharged on the 22nd day after surgery.
CONCLUSIONS: Enucleation of a large esophageal schwannoma from the cervical to the upper thoracic esophagus could be safely performed using both thoracoscopic and cervical approaches. The sternocleidomastoid muscle flap is useful in the occasion considering stenosis by muscular layer suture.

Citation: Nakagawa M, et al. Hybrid surgical approach for a large schwannoma from the cervical esophagus to the upper thoracic esophagus: a case report. Hybrid surgical approach for a large schwannoma from the cervical esophagus to the upper thoracic esophagus: a case report. 2024; 3:45. doi: 10.1186/s44215-024-00171-5

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/39516926/
