PMID: 39517088
Title: Staged biventricular repair in a premature neonate with critical aortic stenosis, severe mitral regurgitation, and fetal hydrops: a case report.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: The surgical management of critical aortic stenosis, mitral regurgitation, and left ventricular dysfunction is a significant clinical challenge. Whether left ventricular function will recover to support systemic circulation after the relief of aortic stenosis is a concern. In this setting, surgical or balloon aortic valvotomy combined with bilateral pulmonary artery banding and atrial septectomy may allow time for left ventricular adaptation, while the systemic circulation is supported by the right ventricle through the ductus arteriosus. We describe the case of a premature neonate with critical aortic stenosis, severe mitral regurgitation, and fetal hydrops who successfully underwent staged biventricular repair after bilateral pulmonary artery banding, atrial septectomy, balloon aortic valvuloplasty, and stent implantation for ductus arteriosus.
CASE PRESENTATION: A 29-year-old female was referred to our hospital at 25 weeks of gestation with fetal echocardiography findings of critical aortic stenosis, severely impaired left ventricular function, severe mitral regurgitation, and restrictive foramen ovale. At 33 weeks of gestational age, the baby was born via cesarean delivery. Prostaglandin E1 infusion was immediately initiated, and the neonate underwent emergecy bilateral pulmonary artery banding and atrial septectomy. On the second day, a balloon aortic valvuloplasty was performed. The neonate underwent stent implantation to open the ductus arteriosus and multiple-balloon aortic valvuloplasty. At 4 months of age, he underwent biventricular repair consisting of surgical aortic valvuloplasty, atrial septal defect closure, bilateral pulmonary artery debanding, and ductus arteriosus ligation. At 1 year of age, he underwent the Ross -Konno procedure. Six years after the operation, the patient's general condition was stable, and the patient is doing well.
CONCLUSIONS: Staged biventricular repair was successfully achieved in a premature neonate with fetal hydrops and critical aortic stenosis associated with severe mitral valve regurgitation and left ventricular dysfunction.

Citation: Teguri Y, et al. Staged biventricular repair in a premature neonate with critical aortic stenosis, severe mitral regurgitation, and fetal hydrops: a case report. Staged biventricular repair in a premature neonate with critical aortic stenosis, severe mitral regurgitation, and fetal hydrops: a case report. 2024; 3:25. doi: 10.1186/s44215-024-00148-4

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/39517088/
