PMID: 39515782
Title: Relationship of Serum Fibroblast Growth Factor 23, Hypoxia-Inducible Factor-1α, and Klotho with In-Stent Restenosis in Elderly Patients with Coronary Artery Disease after the Treatment of Percutaneous Coronary Intervention.

Abstract: In-stent restenosis (ISR) commonly occurs in elderly patients with coronary artery disease (CAD) after percutaneous coronary intervention. Atherosclerosis in elderly patients may be the leading cause of ISR. Therefore, we aim to explore the relationship between vascular calcification-associated factors and ISR occurrence. Elderly patients were enrolled according to standard inclusion and exclusion criteria. The serum fibroblast growth factor 23 (FGF23), hypoxia-inducible factor-1α (HIF-1α), and Klotho levels were determined using an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. The degree of coronary artery stenosis of the patients with CAD before operation was assessed using the Gensini score. The correlation was analyzed using Pearson analysis. The prediction value was evaluated using receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve analysis. The patients with CAD were classified into the ISR group with 97 cases and the non-ISR (NISR) group with 349 cases. The Gensini score, serum FGF23, and HIF-1α levels increased while Klotho levels decreased in patients with CAD of the ISR group compared with those of the NISR group. Pearson analysis showed that FGF23 and HIF-1α positively correlated while Klotho negatively correlated to the Gensini score. ROC analysis showed all three factors could effectively predict the occurrence of ISR. Furthermore, the joint had a more effective prediction value for ISR occurrence. The dynamic analysis presented that the serum FGF23 and HIF-1α levels dramatically increased while Klotho levels decreased in patients with CAD after 1-year follow-up. Serum FGF23 and HIF-1α positively correlated while serum Klotho negatively correlated to ISR. Conclusively, these three factors effectively predicted the occurrence of ISR.

Citation: Qiu RR and Li L. Relationship of Serum Fibroblast Growth Factor 23, Hypoxia-Inducible Factor-1α, and Klotho with In-Stent Restenosis in Elderly Patients with Coronary Artery Disease after the Treatment of Percutaneous Coronary Intervention. Relationship of Serum Fibroblast Growth Factor 23, Hypoxia-Inducible Factor-1α, and Klotho with In-Stent Restenosis in Elderly Patients with Coronary Artery Disease after the Treatment of Percutaneous Coronary Intervention. 2024; (unknown volume):(unknown pages). doi: 10.1089/rej.2024.0064

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/39515782/
