PMID: 39521094
Title: Endoscopic Background Mucosal Resurfacing to Prevent Metachronous Recurrence of Superficial Esophageal Squamous Cancer After Curative Endoscopic Submucosal Dissection: A Randomized Pilot Study With 5-Year Follow-Up (with video).

Abstract: BACKGROUND AND AIMS: Metachronous recurrence frequently develops in patients with superficial esophageal squamous cell carcinomas (ESCCs) after curative endoscopic submucosal dissection (ESD), especially in those with multiple (>10) small Lugol-voiding lesions (LVLs) over the esophageal background mucosa (i.e. speckled pattern). We conducted a randomized controlled trial to investigate whether endoscopic radiofrequency ablation (RFA) for esophageal background mucosal resurfacing (EBMR) can decrease the rate of metachronous neoplasia.
METHODS: Patients who received curative ESD and whose Lugol staining showed a speckled pattern over the background mucosa were randomly assigned in a 1:1 ratio to either receive RFA (EBMR group) or endoscopic surveillance alone (control group). EBMR with RFA was performed with a balloon device for circumferential ablation of the total esophageal mucosa 2-3 months after ESD. The primary outcome was the metachronous recurrence of squamous neoplasia during a 5-year follow-up period. The secondary outcomes were major adverse events.
RESULTS: Of 112 patients screened, 30 were randomized to receive EBMR (n = 15) or surveillance (n = 15). The mean procedure time of EBMR was 30.7 min (range: 25-40 min). One patient developed post-RFA stenosis, which resolved after 3 sessions of endoscopic dilation. EBMR reduced the risk of metachronous recurrence (0% in the EBMR group vs. 53% in the control group, p = 0.001), with the number needed to treat being 1.9. Reversal of the Lugol staining speckled pattern to only a few LVLs occurred in all patients and persisted for at least 5 years in the ablation group.
CONCLUSION: In this randomized trial of patients with multiple small LVLs over the esophageal background after curative ESD, EBMR with balloon-type RFA is a promising and safe procedure for preventing metachronous recurrence over 5 years of follow-up.
CLINICAL TRIAL REGISTRATION NUMBER: NCT03183115.

Citation: Wang WL, et al. Endoscopic Background Mucosal Resurfacing to Prevent Metachronous Recurrence of Superficial Esophageal Squamous Cancer After Curative Endoscopic Submucosal Dissection: A Randomized Pilot Study With 5-Year Follow-Up (with video). Endoscopic Background Mucosal Resurfacing to Prevent Metachronous Recurrence of Superficial Esophageal Squamous Cancer After Curative Endoscopic Submucosal Dissection: A Randomized Pilot Study With 5-Year Follow-Up (with video). 2024; (unknown volume):(unknown pages). doi: 10.1016/j.gie.2024.11.003

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/39521094/
