PMID: 39527157
Title: Robotic-Assisted Endoluminal Resection of Gastroesophageal Junction Leiomyoma with Transoral Specimen Extraction: Technique, Outcome, and Safety.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Leiomyomas are benign smooth muscle tumors found at the gastroesophageal junction (GEJ) ( Mathew G, Osueni A, Carter YM. Esophageal Leiomyoma. StatPearls. StatPearls Publishing Copyright © 2024, StatPearls Publishing LLC; 2024.). Traditional management often involves total gastrectomy with esophagojejunostomy, a highly morbid procedure that impacts quality of life ( Teh JL, Shabbir A. Resection of Gastroesophageal Junction Submucosal Tumors (SMTs). In: Lomanto D, Chen WT-L, Fuentes MB (eds). Mastering Endo-Laparoscopic and Thoracoscopic Surgery: ELSA Manual. Springer Nature Singapore; 2023. pp. 207-211.). We present a case of a large endophytic GEJ leiomyoma managed with robotic-assisted endoluminal mass resection and transoral specimen extraction.
METHODS: A 46-year-old female with upper abdominal pain was diagnosed with a 9×3 cm lobular leiomyoma at the GEJ via computed tomography and endoscopic biopsy. The tumor was excised using the da Vinci Xi system, with transgastric endoluminal trocar placement. The GEJ defect was closed over a gastroscope, allowing visualization and continuous insufflation.
RESULTS: Complete resection was achieved without creating a full-thickness defect. The mass was retrieved transorally with an endoscope, and the defect was repaired to minimize the risk of stenosis. The procedure lasted 236 min with minimal blood loss (150 mL) and with no complications. Pathology confirmed leiomyoma with negative margins. The patient was discharged on postoperative day 4 on a full liquid diet, requiring no narcotics, and was later advanced to a regular diet. No complications, readmissions, or mortality were reported at the 7-month follow-up.
CONCLUSIONS: Robotic-assisted endoluminal GEJ mass resection is a feasible, safe technique for large benign tumors, preserving the stomach and GEJ, and thereby obviating lifestyle changes from total gastrectomy. It minimizes the risk of anastomotic leak, stricture, vagus nerve injury, gastroparesis, and reflux (Levine et al. AJR Am J Roentgenol. 157:1189-1194). Closure of the GEJ defect using an endoscope allows for adequate insufflation of the proximal stomach. When feasible, combining transoral specimen extraction enhances the benefits of this minimally invasive approach (Yin et al. Chin Clin Oncol. 13:6).

Citation: Foroutani L, et al. Robotic-Assisted Endoluminal Resection of Gastroesophageal Junction Leiomyoma with Transoral Specimen Extraction: Technique, Outcome, and Safety. Robotic-Assisted Endoluminal Resection of Gastroesophageal Junction Leiomyoma with Transoral Specimen Extraction: Technique, Outcome, and Safety. 2024; (unknown volume):(unknown pages). doi: 10.1245/s10434-024-16426-y

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/39527157/
