PMID: 39523987
Title: Variation in the management and treatment of children with giant coronary artery aneurysm following Kawasaki disease.

Abstract: OBJECTIVES: Giant coronary artery aneurysms are rare but potentially fatal complications of Kawasaki disease. The lack of evidence-based recommendations on their management and treatment cause guidelines and practices to differ. We aimed to assess these variations.
METHODS: An anonymous online survey regarding surveillance, imaging, pharmacological management, and interventional practices was distributed among 134 physicians attending to Kawasaki disease patients worldwide. A p-value of <0.05 was deemed significant.
RESULTS: The majority (60%) of respondents were general paediatric cardiologists, and 29% interventional specialists. The average years in practice was 15 ± 9.6. Physicians from Asia had the most experience with giant coronary artery aneurysms. American practitioners preferred combining anticoagulants with aspirin. Beta-blockers and statins were more likely used in teenagers versus younger children. Cardiac catheterisation was most (52%) chosen for coronary surveillance in patients with echocardiogram anomalies, followed by Coronary CT-angiography. The indications for coronary intervention were split among respondents, regardless of geographic region or experience. The preferred treatment of coronary stenosis was percutaneous intervention (69%) versus bypass surgery. For thrombosis, thrombolytics (50%) were preferred over percutaneous (39%) and surgical (11%) interventions. Most (92%) preferred intervening in young children in a paediatric facility but were split between a paediatric and adult facility for older children. Most chose combined management by adult and paediatric specialists for either age-scenarios (70, 82%).
CONCLUSION: As identified by our study, the lack of large studies and evidence-based recommendations cause uncertainty and ambivalence towards certain treatments. International collaborative efforts are needed to provide more robust evidence in the management of these patients.

Citation: Chen M, et al. Variation in the management and treatment of children with giant coronary artery aneurysm following Kawasaki disease. Variation in the management and treatment of children with giant coronary artery aneurysm following Kawasaki disease. 2024; (unknown volume):1-8. doi: 10.1017/S1047951124026829

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/39523987/
