PMID: 39520189
Title: From Caustic Stenosis to Esophageal Cancer, a Challenging Evolution - Narrative Review.

Abstract: Caustic ingestion remains a complex public health problem worldwide, both in adults and children. The consequences of caustic ingestion depend on the severity of the injuries, the general condition of the patient at presentation and the promptness of medical management. Long-term complications include strictures or stenoses, resulting in dysphagia. In addition to metabolic and hydroelectrolytic disorders, consequences of dysphagia, there are distant cases of esophageal cancer based on esophageal stenosis. The ingestion of caustic products is a risk factor for the occurrence of esophageal cancer, and the specialized literature reports the occurrence of the disease, approximately 30 to 40 years after the accident, with the determination mainly of squamous carcinoma. The pathophysiological mechanism of esophageal cancer related to caustic ingestion is not fully understood. The diagnosis of esophageal cancer on post caustic scar is based on two important pillars: the change of the clinic by the appearance or change of the characters of dysphagia and the endoscopic examination of the lesion. Obviously, the information needs to be completed by complex imaging explorations, both for the certification of the diagnosis and for the purpose of a complete oncological assessment. The principles and methods of treatment for "esophageal scar cancer" are the same as for any other esophageal cancer: early detection, complete oncological assessment and surgical resection associated with oncological therapy are the main pillars for cure. Due to the complexity of these cases, a series of discussions and recommendations appear as necessary in their management.

Citation: Predescu D, et al. From Caustic Stenosis to Esophageal Cancer, a Challenging Evolution - Narrative Review. From Caustic Stenosis to Esophageal Cancer, a Challenging Evolution - Narrative Review. 2024; 119:515-532. doi: 10.21614/chirurgia.3050

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/39520189/
