PMID: 39533584
Title: Rehabilitation for complicated dysphagia after synchronous head-and-neck and esophageal cancer surgery: A case report.

Abstract: RATIONALE: Surgical intervention for synchronous head-and-neck and esophageal cancers often results in complex dysphagia, significantly affecting postoperative quality of life. Swallowing dysfunction may become permanent or worsen, with potential impacts on noncancer-related mortality.
PATIENT CONCERNS: We report a rare case of multiple synchronous squamous cell carcinomas of the head and neck (tonsillar and epiglottic cancer) along with esophageal cancer, presenting for dysphagia rehabilitation following surgery.
DIAGNOSES: Comprehensive evaluations-including magnetic resonance imaging, laryngoscopy, gastroscopy, and histopathology-led to diagnoses of left tonsil cancer (squamous cell carcinoma, T2N2bM0), epiglottic cancer (squamous cell carcinoma, T1N2bM0), and lower esophageal cancer (squamous cell carcinoma, T2N0M0). Postoperative videofluoroscopic swallowing study identified an anastomotic stricture at the level of the fifth cervical vertebra.
INTERVENTIONS: The patient underwent an 8-week rehabilitation program incorporating stretching exercises, swallowing behavior therapy, super-supraglottic swallow techniques, catheter balloon dilation, electrical stimulation, and respiratory therapy.
OUTCOMES: Following rehabilitation, the patient was able to resume partial oral intake without aspiration, with significant improvement in anastomotic stricture and swallowing function.
LESSONS: This case of dysphagia underscores the anastomotic stenosis resulting from oncological surgical intervention. Dysphagia is a frequent complication in patients with synchronous head-and-neck and esophageal cancers. Comprehensive rehabilitation and assessment of swallowing function enabled safe oral intake postoperatively in this patient.

Citation: Xue X, et al. Rehabilitation for complicated dysphagia after synchronous head-and-neck and esophageal cancer surgery: A case report. Rehabilitation for complicated dysphagia after synchronous head-and-neck and esophageal cancer surgery: A case report. 2024; 103:e40338. doi: 10.1097/MD.0000000000040338

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/39533584/
