PMID: 39532834
Title: Transcatheter Aortic Valve Replacement in Patients With Geographic and Socioeconomic Vulnerabilities.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Transcatheter aortic valve replacement (TAVR) is an established treatment for patients with severe aortic stenosis (AS). It remains unclear whether disparities exist in rural or socially vulnerable populations undergoing TAVR. This study assessed whether outcomes differ based on geographic location or vulnerability of patients undergoing TAVR.
METHODS: Patients undergoing TAVR at a single institution from August 2012 to June 2023 were studied (n = 1565). Zip codes determined Social Vulnerability Index (SVI) and measured distance to our facility. Outcomes defined by the Valve Academic Research Consortium 3 (VARC-3) included stroke, transient ischemic attack (TIA)/delirium, pacemaker implantation, new atrial fibrillation/atrial flutter, and myocardial infarction (MI). Average time between preoperative coronary angiogram (CATH)/computed tomography angiography (CTA) and TAVR was calculated. Kaplan-Meier curves estimated survival probability.
RESULTS: The average time between CATH and TAVR in patients living furthest away was ∼9 days more than patients living closest to the implant site. The average number of days between CATH and TAVR for low and high SVI were 71 and 78 days, respectively. The average number of days between CTA and TAVR for low and high SVI were 40 and 39 days, respectively.
DISCUSSION: Further distances traveled were associated with longer wait times between preoperative workup and TAVR. Patients with longer waits between CATH and TAVR had no differences in medium-term survival probability but had decreased long-term survival probability compared to patients with rapid pre-procedural evaluation. Although geographic and socioeconomic vulnerability can disadvantage patients, our study demonstrates that patients undergoing TAVR can have timely care and similar outcomes.

Citation: Tupa JM, et al. Transcatheter Aortic Valve Replacement in Patients With Geographic and Socioeconomic Vulnerabilities. Transcatheter Aortic Valve Replacement in Patients With Geographic and Socioeconomic Vulnerabilities. 2024; (unknown volume):31348241300364. doi: 10.1177/00031348241300364

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/39532834/
