PMID: 39538171
Title: Management of giant left atrial thrombus late after transcatheter mitral valve-in-ring replacement using a transcatheter aortic valve: a case report.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: In symptomatic high-risk patients with severe mitral valve regurgitation (MR), who are not eligible for surgery, Transcatheter edge-to-edge repair (TEER) or transcatheter mitral valve replacement (TMVR) may be an option, especially when surgical mitral valve repair by annuloplasty has been performed earlier. After TMVR, the appropriate anticoagulation regimen is still matter of debate.
CASE PRESENTATION: We here report on a 78-year-old frail lady with heart failure and atrial fibrillation who underwent surgical reconstruction of the mitral valve nine years ago. Due to high surgical risk and after heart team discussion, TMVR using a transcatheter aortic valve prosthesis (valve-in-ring concept) was performed successfully via the transapical access route. Several months later, an excellent result could be confirmed. Since surgical excision of the left atrial appendage was carried out during first surgery, oral anticoagulation was withdrawn. Two months later, the patient presented with a massive LA thrombus mass and severe stenosis of the mitral valve prosthesis requiring re-do surgery.
CONCLUSIONS: Management of anticoagulation in patients with atrial fibrillation and successfully performed LAA excision is still a matter of debate, in particular after transcatheter heart valve implantation in mitral position. TMVR devices may be very thrombogenic. Thus, caution should be used whenever discontinuing oral anticoagulation in these patients. Despite the lack of evidence, withdrawal of anticoagulation should be avoided here, especially in the absence of bleeding complications. Left atrial appendage closure or excision should not influence this decision.

Citation: Maloku A, et al. Management of giant left atrial thrombus late after transcatheter mitral valve-in-ring replacement using a transcatheter aortic valve: a case report. Management of giant left atrial thrombus late after transcatheter mitral valve-in-ring replacement using a transcatheter aortic valve: a case report. 2024; 24:644. doi: 10.1186/s12872-024-04260-9

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/39538171/
