PMID: 39530762
Title: Enhancing vascular surgery outcomes through geriatric co-management: a study on the impact of the POPS team.

Abstract: INTRODUCTION: Peripheral arterial disease (PAD) involves atherosclerotic stenosis and occlusion of lower leg arteries, leading to significant disability, high cardiovascular and cerebrovascular morbidity and mortality. Critical limb ischemia (CLI) is the most severe form of PAD. With the UK's aging population set to increase, the prevalence of PAD and the burden on vascular teams are expected to rise. This study evaluates the impact of regular input from the Proactive Care of Older People Undergoing Surgery (POPS) team on vascular surgery outcomes.
METHODS: This prospective cohort study examined the impact of Care of the Elderly (CoE) input on predefined parameters, focussing primarily on the length of stay (LoS) over 12 months. Data included baseline demographics, comorbidities, frailty scores (assessed using the Rockwood frailty score), LoS and referrals to medical specialties. A retrospective pilot study of 50 consecutive patients indicated a need for CoE input, showing higher local LoS compared with the national average.
RESULTS: Patients in both pilot and project groups were matched for comorbidities, frailty scores and interventions. Despite higher mean age and a greater proportion of patients aged 75+ years in the project group, the study aimed to reduce LoS. Post-quality improvement project implementation, LoS beyond fit-for-discharge decreased from 11.7 days to 9 days in 6 months and to 6 days after 12 months. Referrals to medical specialties decreased from 77% to 40%, and new diagnoses on discharge increased from 28% to 37%.
CONCLUSIONS: CoE team input in vascular surgery patient care significantly improved outcomes, reducing LoS and medical specialty referrals, demonstrating cost-effectiveness and suggesting a feasible multidisciplinary approach for other regions.

Citation: Bakheet M, et al. Enhancing vascular surgery outcomes through geriatric co-management: a study on the impact of the POPS team. Enhancing vascular surgery outcomes through geriatric co-management: a study on the impact of the POPS team. 2024; (unknown volume):(unknown pages). doi: 10.1308/rcsann.2024.0084

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/39530762/
