PMID: 39537272
Title: Timing of Aortic Valve Intervention in the Management of Aortic Stenosis.

Abstract: Aortic stenosis (AS) affects about 12% of people aged ≥75 years. Accumulating evidence on the prognostic importance of cardiac damage in patients with asymptomatic and less than severe AS supports the proposition of advancing aortic valve replacement (AVR) to earlier disease stages. Potential benefits of earlier treatment, including prevention of cardiac damage progression and reduced cardiovascular hospitalizations, need to be balanced against the earlier procedural risk and subsequent lifetime management after AVR. Two small, randomized trials indicate that early surgical AVR may improve survival in patients with asymptomatic severe AS, and observational data suggest that AVR may reduce mortality even in patients with moderate AS. A clear understanding of the pathophysiology of cardiac damage secondary to AS is needed to develop strategies to select patients for earlier AVR. Noninvasive imaging can detect early cardiac damage, and indices such as fibrosis, global longitudinal strain, and myocardial work index have potential use to guide stratification of patients for earlier AVR. Ongoing randomized trials are investigating the safety and efficacy of AVR for patients with asymptomatic severe AS and those with moderate AS who have symptoms/evidence of cardiac damage. Pathophysiological considerations and accumulating evidence from clinical studies that support earlier timing of AVR for AS will need to be corroborated by the results of these trials. This review aims to evaluate the evidence for earlier AVR, discuss strategies to guide stratification of patients who may benefit from this approach, highlight the relevant ongoing randomized trials, and consider the consequences of earlier intervention.

Citation: Maznyczka A, et al. Timing of Aortic Valve Intervention in the Management of Aortic Stenosis. Timing of Aortic Valve Intervention in the Management of Aortic Stenosis. 2024; 17:2502-2514. doi: 10.1016/j.jcin.2024.08.046

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/39537272/
