PMID: 39543528
Title: Renovascular hypertension following by juxtaglomerular cell tumor: a challenging case with 12-year history of resistant hypertension and hypokalemia.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Adolescents with secondary hyperaldosteronism often present with severe and treatment-resistant hypertension, along with hypokalemia. Renovascular hypertension is frequently caused by renal artery stenosis, primarily due to atherosclerosis and fibromuscular dysplasia (FMD). The presence of an accessory renal artery (ARA) is a common anatomical variation that can contribute to secondary renal vascular hypertension. However, FMD occurring in the ARA is a rare cause of renal vascular hypertension. Juxtaglomerular cell tumor (JGCT) represents a rare etiology of renal hypertension. The co-occurrence of the pathogenic ARA with JGCT is infrequently reported in the existing literature.
CASE PRESENTATIONS: This case study presents a young individual with a 12-year history of resistant hypertension, initially diagnosed with pathogenic ARA but later confirmed as JGCT 4 years later. Following surgery for JGCT, the patient experienced only temporary stabilization of blood pressure without anti-hypertensive medication. Stenosis of the ARA was definitively diagnosed one and a half years post-surgery, with FMD occurring on the ARA strongly suspected. The patient underwent balloon dilatation angioplasty 3 years later, leading to sustained blood pressure stability with the use of two medications.
CONCLUSIONS: The case study discussed herein involves a patient with resistant hypertension initially diagnosed with ARA but later determined to have late-onset JGCT and renal artery stenosis. It is imperative to consider atypical JGCT in young patients exhibiting resistant hypertension, hypokalemia, and hyperreninemia. Adequate management of renal artery stenosis is crucial in the management of hyperreninemic hypertension.

Citation: Chen G, et al. Renovascular hypertension following by juxtaglomerular cell tumor: a challenging case with 12-year history of resistant hypertension and hypokalemia. Renovascular hypertension following by juxtaglomerular cell tumor: a challenging case with 12-year history of resistant hypertension and hypokalemia. 2024; 24:244. doi: 10.1186/s12902-024-01770-7

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/39543528/
