PMID: 39543769
Title: Management of multiple valve replacement operations for a young patient with hypereosinophilic syndrome and valvular heart disease: a case report.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: Hypereosinophilic syndrome (HES) is characterized by the overproduction of eosinophils and manifests as valvular disease and thrombogenesis. Herein, we report our experience with a patient with HES requiring multiple reoperations for prosthetic heart valve replacement via median sternotomy.
CASE PRESENTATION: The patient was a 54-year-old man who had undergone four valve replacement operations via median sternotomy (three mitral valve replacements and one double valve replacement) because of valvular diseases complicated by HES since he was 26 years old. All the artificial valves were bioprosthetic to prevent thrombotic events. At presentation, he had developed structural deterioration of the artificial aortic valve with severe stenosis. His prosthetic mitral valve did not fulfil the criteria for intervention, as it exhibited only mild regurgitation and no stenosis. The explanted mitral prosthetic valve at the previous (fourth) surgery had exhibited eosinophilic infiltration, resulting in the introduction of cyclosporin for poorly controlled HES. We conducted re-aortic valve replacement via a fifth median sternotomy using a bioprosthetic valve, and no eosinophilic infiltration was observed in the explanted valve. The patient was discharged on postoperative day 15 without complications.
CONCLUSIONS: Controlling eosinophil count during the pre- and postoperative course is vital in treating patients with HES after valve replacement surgery. A holistic management and therapeutic strategy, including prosthetic valve selection and medication for HES is required to improve outcomes of patients with HES and heart valve disease.

Citation: Kado Y, et al. Management of multiple valve replacement operations for a young patient with hypereosinophilic syndrome and valvular heart disease: a case report. Management of multiple valve replacement operations for a young patient with hypereosinophilic syndrome and valvular heart disease: a case report. 2024; 3:50. doi: 10.1186/s44215-024-00176-0

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/39543769/
