PMID: 39547930
Title: The Role of Intersectional Stigma in Coronary Artery Disease Among Cisgender Women Aging with HIV.

Abstract: Cisgender women living with HIV experience elevated cardiovascular disease (CVD) risk that increases with age, a concern given extended life expectancies for people living with HIV. The CVD risk disparity among cisgender women aging with HIV is understudied and remains unclear. Taking a psychoneuroimmunology approach, given this group's intersecting marginalized identities, one potential driver of the disparity is intersectional stigma. Yet not all women living with HIV have coronary artery disease (CAD). Resilience to stigma may serve as a protective factor to CAD, as observed in other health issues. This study aimed to explore the relationship between intersectional stigma, resilience, "traditional" CVD risk factors, and objective indicators of CAD among women aging with HIV. A diverse sample of cisgender women aging with HIV (aged ≥ 35, N = 48) completed a cross-sectional survey, clinical health interview, blood sample, blood pressure, anthropometric measurements, and computed tomography angiography (CTA). CART-based machine learning models assessed the statistical importance of traditional CVD risk factors, intersectional stigma, and resilience for classifying individuals with coronary artery stenosis, calcification, and inflammatory markers associated with CAD. Of the n = 31 who completed CTA, 74% had detectable calcification and 39% stenosis. Intersectional stigma was identified as an important variable for explaining calcification, but not stenosis, and for explaining sCD163, an inflammatory biomarker associated with CAD. Results show a potential psychoneuroimmunology pathway to the CAD disparity among this group. Future longitudinal research should investigate the mechanisms of this pathway and consider stigma as target for intervention to improve cardiovascular health among women aging with HIV.

Citation: Glynn TR, et al. The Role of Intersectional Stigma in Coronary Artery Disease Among Cisgender Women Aging with HIV. The Role of Intersectional Stigma in Coronary Artery Disease Among Cisgender Women Aging with HIV. 2024; (unknown volume):1-12. doi: 10.1080/08964289.2024.2429073

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/39547930/
