PMID: 39547675
Title: Insights on High-Value Procedures From the ISASS 4-Part Webinar Series on Current and Emerging Techniques in Endoscopic Spine Surgery Based on Surgeon Experience.

Abstract: BACKGROUND: The authors conducted a comprehensive review and integration of insights from 4 webinars hosted by the International Society for the Advancement of Spine Surgery (ISASS) to arrive at recommendations for best clinical practices for guideline development for endoscopic spine surgery. This perspective article discusses the limitations of traditional surgical trials and amalgamates surgeons' experience and research on various cutting-edge techniques.
METHODS: Data were extracted from surveys conducted during each webinar session involving 3639 surgeons globally. The polytomous Rasch model was employed to analyze responses, ensuring a robust statistical assessment of surgeon endorsements and educational impacts and focusing on operative nuances and experience-based outcomes. Bias detection was performed using the differential item functioning test.
RESULTS: The ISASS webinars provided a dynamic platform for discussing advances in endoscopic spine surgery, identifying a range of high-value procedures from basic discectomies to complex lumbar interbody fusions. Each high-value endoscopic spine surgery was highlighted in separate peer-reviewed publications, which form the basis for this summary document that synthesizes key takeaways from these webinars. High-value clinical applications of endoscopic spine surgery, primarily defined as higher-intensity endorsement transformation from the pre- to postwebinar survey with a shift to higher mean logit locations of test items both with unbiased and orderly threshold progression, were: (a) Percutaneous interlaminar endoscopic decompression for lateral canal stenosis, (b) transforaminal debridement of low-grade degenerative spondylolisthesis, (c) transforaminal full-endoscopic interbody fusion for hard disc herniation, (d) endoscopic standalone lumbar interbody fusion, (e) endoscopic debridement of spondylolytic spondylolisthesis, and (f) posterior cervical foraminotomy for herniated disc and bony stenosis.
CONCLUSIONS: The ISASS webinar series has significantly impacted surgeons' education and contributed to the identification of high-value endoscopic spine surgery practices that may serve as a cornerstone for surgeon training standards, policy, and guidelines development. Ongoing research on technological advancements and expansions of clinical indications combined with systematic review is expected to refine the recommendations on high-value endoscopic spinal surgeries recommended for enhanced reimbursement.
CLINICAL RELEVANCE: Assessing surgeon confidence and acceptance of endoscopic spinal surgeries using polytomous Rasch analysis.
LEVEL OF EVIDENCE: Level 2 (inferential) and 3 (observational) evidence because Rasch analysis provides statistical validation of instruments rather than direct clinical outcomes.

Citation: Lewandrowski KU, et al. Insights on High-Value Procedures From the ISASS 4-Part Webinar Series on Current and Emerging Techniques in Endoscopic Spine Surgery Based on Surgeon Experience. Insights on High-Value Procedures From the ISASS 4-Part Webinar Series on Current and Emerging Techniques in Endoscopic Spine Surgery Based on Surgeon Experience. 2024; (unknown volume):(unknown pages). doi: 10.14444/8676

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/39547675/
